ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31391	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Jelena Milenković - Orlic, Veselin Jankovic, Goran Ćirić, Pal Shandor, Neda Arnerić, Petar Misic, Predrag Stojanović, Radoslav Vesenović, Zoran Bošković, Branimirkovic; Zlata Djeric and Miomir Ilic will be late. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (continuation) The word has a People's MP Arsen Kurjački, and the next one registered for the word is the MP Stevan Kesejić. The People's Messenger Arsen Kuryački is not present. The People's Messenger Stevan Kesejić has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of the National Assembly, I was announced yesterday as the first, but here it is well, you have called the Courier who is not present and I do not mind. So, in connection with this proposal to fill the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the promoters said a lot, and I think they were just talking about the harm of the proposed Mr. Stojan Jevtic, because in their presentation, they actually made a concession to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for what the Ministry, whose head I believe will be Mr. Jevtic, and the government's intention is not to change anything in the strategy towards agriculture, and for these reasons, I believe that they are the best promoters, and unfortunately the citizens cannot see, especially those who are engaged in agriculture, just those who wanted to promote the minister, to defend him, and that it has not yet taken over the role of the Minister of Agriculture and water industry. I'm going to support this claim with a few facts. The prime minister said that much will depend on the situation in agriculture looking into the sky when the rain will fall, as if the minister had no strategy and a plan to predetermin what would possibly be an elementary disaster, and he probably forgot the former minister's promises, who said, when he presented his programme here, that he would take care of the irrigation system; and, well, he's already had some talks, but it seems to me that these talks were only over at lunches and whiskeys and none of that was done. I know reliably that in Serbia, and especially in Vojvodina, there are irrigation systems that are not absolutely or used, only because the government of the Republic of Serbia has made it impossible to implement it. Although it is claimed here that the purchase of agricultural products is not done by the government, it indirectly does so by taking over the products into the stock reserves. Any country that cares about such a natural resource as Serbia has should make a good strategy. This government doesn't have that strategy. It's been said that we have low-productive varieties and hybrids, just the ones that were trying to get the minister to play and promote, and I'd say they were absolutely wrong. It happened that there was an elementary accident on October 5th and that the institutes stopped dealing with those jobs they were professional and competent for, and the future minister probably knows well, and so do I. Each country takes care first of all of what life means in agriculture, which is seed production. You completely neglected it, institutes, then selections, genetic potentials from which innovation of new hybrids and varieties arises, and instead we started exporting our technology and importing bofl from other people's goods, products, modified goods, modified products that have a harmful effect on our agriculture and our agricultural potentials. At a time when Serbia was still taking care of it, which was somewhere between 1976 and 1986, the market was also concerned with the fruit seed and fertilising material. It was considered because it was not allowed to be, for example, an example. Introduce some European houses, such as KVS, and then "Pionir" and other famous seed houses in the world, but that is why we, as very professional and in this part of the job, have done very well for these countries the additional and manufacturing services. We didn't keep any seed grains in our country, just to protect our production and employ our capacities. Today is a completely reverse situation. Today, Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic is leaving for Croatia. Does this mean that bc hybrids will be sown in our fields, instead of Earthly and those selections that are known and recognized in the world? No, you may be in The Hague, Mr. Prime Minister, because your statements that you sent to the MPs yesterday, with a threat -- if you have something to say here or keep quiet; that's how I understood it. The MP has his own political position, but if you will, for information, you can get very good and quality information if you read the list "The D Magazine" from Podgorica, which came out on May 8th, so that you can see who is involved in the sugar affair. That interview I gave, as a folk MP, and you can freely, through OLAF organizations, a business crime control agency, establish everything. However, you are putting Dragan Veselinov under the carpet. I'm afraid the future minister will also have to get under the rug, because you don't want things to end. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. You haven't told me how long it's been. I'm sorry, I just want to finish my thought. I believe, Dr Stojan Jevtic, knowing you as an expert, that you should give up this job, regardless of what I think you can do, you know, but the government of the Republic of Serbia will not allow you to carry out what you possibly, as an expert, want to do for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31393	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word. The next one registered for the word is National MP Emilia Krstic. The SPS Group of MPs - 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31394	Dear People's MPs, I will talk about selecting candidates for a very important Ministry of Agriculture and (now) water industry, former forestry, in front of the Socialist Party, as a man who works in the area of water industry, who is directly related to agriculture, because agriculture is the insatiable need of our country. It's the only natural treasure, earth and water that is under our direct powers, without help from the side and where we can only do our own work to accomplish what is in our hands. Unfortunately, when it comes to the candidate, or the former minister, there is no mention of any global policy related to the overall work of the government for the past two years. On January 26th 2001, late Prime Minister Djindjic said in his statement that it would be the government that will operate according to the following principles -- the government of speed, expeditionivity, a government that will not lie and will not steal. I'll pay attention only to these first two sentences, and that's the government of speed and expeditionivity. Very quickly and very expediently, everything that exists in our economy was destroyed, especially in our agricultural, water and forestry resources, which have now gone to the new Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. For this reason, we can say that the previous minister, who resigned, is responsible. It is not only him who is responsible for this area, but the entire government is responsible, because agriculture is, as I have already said, a question of life interest for the citizens of Serbia, for our survival and for everything that is important for the prosperity of a country. However, the relationship we had with agriculture, water and forestry suggests that the previous prime minister, who proposed the minister, who did not belong to the Ministry, could be more responsible than the minister himself, because the minister is guilty only of accepting the duty he is not capable of, both by profession and knowledge, and not by desire. He had no desire, no will, no expertise to pay much attention to this area. For this reason, I must point out that he did not pay attention to budgeting; that earlier, in the Republic budget, he was a special part of the agrarian budget. During the period that you are criticising, over the past 10-12 years, to take those 10 years, the agrarian budget was a special item in the Republic of Serbia's budget; in 2000 it was almost 11% of budget revenues; in 2001 it was reduced to about 7%; in 2002 it was about 4.5-5%, so that in 2003 the agrarian budget in the new budget was removed and put into division 9, as the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Economy, where there was one initiative, when the ministry law was passed to separate the Ministry of Agriculture and Watercapitality and that there was a special division in this section of 9 - Water Directorate. Unfortunately, by criticising the work of the minister and the government, I must say that what has been passed in the Ministry Act, especially in the current budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, there is no water and budget item in the amounts planned there. The minister and others participating in this area are not allowed to use these funds, both last year and this year, in planned budget reserves, because the water management has never been formed. The Omnibus Law, a package of laws for the AP Vojvodina, among other things, has established public enterprises such as the Vojvodina and the Vojvodina, without having previously adopted some basic act that regulates these issues, which is primarily the law on water. I'll talk about the water law later. Comparing these facts which were mathematically spoken and which were correct, perhaps if I had erred in a small part, it is evident that the commitment of the water industry, or agriculture, was insufficient and the engagement of the previous minister was an absolute failure. We must say that military and livestock production, as basic farmers, has been neglected to the point where, in this sense, I could no longer speak of wartime production, because if the candidate for minister, Mr Jevtic, cannot come out, he is an expert in this area, I appreciate the expert, and for this reason I believe that, although I belong to the work of this profession, but not directly in the profession, that he will surely be more quality, more responsible to pay attention to the wartime production. In light of why our war production has been reduced during this period we can say freely, we may have one excuse, and that is primarily NATO aggression; the destruction of all economic capacity, collateral damage, as Americans call, human losses and all that has affected, these are facts. But attention is not devoted to enough pollution; climate and meteorological conditions have deteriorated on our premises, and the visible moment in this matter is drought. By destroying the ozone envelope, by creating so-called ozone holes, the climate in our territories, Serbia-Montenegro, has broken down, so it is perfectly normal for weather disasters such as droughts to occur, and after the drought storms, which cause new disasters. This has been pointed out several times by MPs who know more about it, as well as the competent institutions that exist in this country, much more quality than many European and some other institutions. For this reason, I believe that this justification speaks of the fact that the candidate for minister has to give this issue and how important attention it is. Drought leads not only to the reduction of agricultural production, ego and other living needs. I have to mention one piece of information that you probably know, or you don't know, that we're the last country in Europe, and perhaps in the world, by percentage of the irrigated surfaces. In the area of the Republic of Serbia, built systems are irrigated, many of which are not in use, 182,000 hectares of agricultural areas suitable for irrigation. It's only 4% of the surfaces that are possible for irrigation; we have built projects for 400,000 hectares in the field of Vojvodina, Macva, eastern Serbia and non-China, so these are the reasons (we talked about that the previous minister did not take care) that say that we should choose such a minister who will pay attention to it and how much attention. We socialists emphasized it and potentiated it, we failed, but in two years you didn't do anything; here's a fact: last year, in the agriculture sector, I mean, that is, the water industry, there were 1,900,000 dinars for the water industry sector. Of which the realization was made with 51% and those budgets that were allocated were not spent, because you did not pay any attention to the organisation of the water industry. The formation of only the Public Enterprise of the Vojvodina has made such an unfortunate situation in relations, in the organisation itself, that it does not know what is now in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in this narrow part, which is valid for the company, that the business "Serbian" or "Vojvodnavod". The Vojvodina has its own agency, and Serbia is unique in the water space and water potential that is not so small in our area. Our area has great energy potentials; 92% of Serbia's water potential is so-called. transit rivers, which are Danube, Sava, Drina and Tis and only 8% are domestic rivers. Only hydroenergy potentials are used in this energy potential, and as regards the irrigation system, capacity utilisation, this was not taken into account. The plans and programmes for the work of water companies and enterprises in the Public Enterprise sector in the last year were realized only 51%, alas a wonderful miracle this year, although adopted, have not yet been realised. So, the realization of a programme to support protective agricultural facilities, use of water, protection from harmful effects of water, then the protection of water from pollution, cannot be fully achieved this year; contracts with organisations and companies that need to carry out this in the public interest have not yet been achieved. In order not to talk about that sector that my fellow MPs were talking about, it means direct agriculture, I will only look back at this part of the water business problem. The basic problems that exist in the organisation of the water industry are seen in the following: the lack of definition of the public water company "Vojvodnavod", the public water company in Serbia's territory and the current state of the public water company in Kosovo's territory; insufficient attention to Serbia's water business by the Government of Serbia; insufficiently defined relations between different ministries, the Ministry of Water Economy, the Ministry of Energy, the new Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources; insufficient definition and insufficient institutional training of the water industry to respond to functional tasks, such as planning, maintenance, investment, monitoring and implementation of plans, inspection and control. For this reason, since I am approaching the time of completion, the basic document that must be brought into the area of the economy, as I said, is the law on water. The discrepancies of the existing Water Act with others, in the meantime... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. I've got ten more seconds... the laws, regulations and regulations adopted, unresolved territorial and other competences between the Public Enterprise "Serbian" and "Vojvodovod", the inability to implement ownership transformation in the manner provided for in the existing law, the separate powers between the Ministry, the Public Enterprise "Serbia", the formation of a new Ministry of Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment, are only some of the reasons why the new water law is necessary. Finally, I must also say to remind the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Water Management, Zoran Mićovic, a colleague who is obliged to transfer the conclusions from the Joint Meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Water Economy in the Republic Assembly and the Regional Assembly, and the meeting was held in Cortanovci on 12 May, where it was concluded that a sugar affair and more... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) Good, and to put the issue of water in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and especially the problem of drying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31395	The word has a folk MP Emilija Krstic, the DSS parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is Vladimir Andric. The total time of the parliamentary group is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31396	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already had the case of one of the ministers resigning and leaving, not explaining it in one word, and then selecting another minister, again without any presentation of the plan, strategy, tactics, intentions and the rest; it happened to us with Minister of Energy, Mr. Novakovic. Now it's happening to us again. Of course, Mr. Jevtic's references are not controversial and that he cannot address the Assembly is not disputed, but if he already cannot address us, then Mr. Zivkovic, Prime Minister of the Government, must present to us in more detail the strategy of this ministry which we haven't really known and haven't met since 2000, because it has deviated from what were promises and what was the programme. Of course, we have heard only some general places in the form of tasks here, so it says: stabilisation of agricultural production, organisation of agricultural production, mechanisms and organisations of agricultural production, harmonisation of agricultural production, and the necessity of legal regulation, etc. They're not general, they're the most common places. Even the assessment, you will agree, that our situation in agriculture is not perfect, far from reality, because it is disastrously bad, and not only in agriculture; in some segments of this society and in other areas it is even worse, in some less bad, but it is generally a bad situation and that is what reality is. Of course, we expected some details, but we only got general places, we didn't get answers to questions about what Mr. Vesenov has done so far, or what he hasn't done, because it's much more what he didn't do than he did, than what he did; we didn't get answers to questions about how we're going to activate agricultural production, how we're going to credit him, what investments we're going to raise him to some level, which not only will satisfy the needs of the rural household, but we're going to give them the purchase of the product and the payment of that buy-out in those time spaces that we agree with them; whether we're going to provide them with a safe placement of their products; whether we're going to co-operative and how we should... And the fact that you're nodding your head, that's not very encouraging, but that's your thing. How, in the end, we're going to better connect agricultural production with the food industry, with other sectors of the economy, with trade, with tourism; and finally with exports, because if we're going to export food the way we export sugar, we better not do that. As you say, we have food for all of Europe, but I can tell you that most of the citizens are not full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31397	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31398	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, honourable MPs, Mr. Yevtić, I will say a few words about the state of the water business. The republican government, which is declared reform and market-oriented, has so far failed to launch reforms in this area. It is obvious that the programme is being maintained, and to a large extent, the human continuity with the condition found in 2000. We have an expensive, poorly organized and inefficient administration. The government is not prepared to give up the full monopoly in water use and introduce market conditions for the adjustment, and is also unable to enable realistic and stable sources of funding for water regulation and protection. It concerns the absence of will to launch necessary reforms in this area. It is manipulated by potential foreign investment, although it is clear that neither foreign or domestic companies can invest in water systems within the framework of existing legal solutions, nor market conditions can be established in any segment of the water sector. The way the Republic's budget has been planned and implemented in the last two years, in the water business, is wrong and irregular. The planned funds shall be determined on a flat-rate basis and shall not meet the needs. The funds are mainly used to continue and build inherited investments, some of which have been built for more than 20 years. It is necessary to review the inherited projects from the state plan economy period and to program economic sustainable development. The dedicated revenues of the water industry, contrary to the Water Act, are directed at other users, and part of the dedicated water industry has fallen below, unrecorded, two public expenditure gaps. In addition, the fee based on the use of water is charged selectively and only by a small part. Many bonds, mostly those who make large profits, do not pay contributions. This primarily refers to producers of mineral water, juices, pond manufacturers, or supplyers of gravel and sand, but also to electricity. Unpaid claims are multiplely higher than realised public revenues. Now that I mention producers and delivery companies of gravel and sand, I especially want to point to the problem of the exploitation of gravel in Podrinj. It's about the Drin gravel, which is exploited without measure or control. First of all, it is a major environmental problem, and it is not only a problem of your ministry, but also of the Ministry of Ecology, but also of the water industry inspectors responsible for this exploitation, and it is simply necessary to know that almost all the shores of Drina, where they could, have been mutilated, on both the Bosnian and Serbian sides. It's about tens of thousands of acres. These are areas that have been turned into craters and simply can't be used for anything anymore. The money it takes to cultivate it is worth more than that building material itself, the gravel. It's a very big problem in the municipalities of Podrinj. So there is no law that obliges those surfaces to cultivate, and no inspection does their job. I mean, by the way, and the water business inspection. Two years ago, I had a brief meeting with Assistant Minister of Water Affairs Mr. Petkovic and pointed to the problem. He suggested I speak to some ministry officials. I informed them, expecting that there would be some change in that government policy, to protect that wealth, which is limited. It's about the highest quality building material, the gravel, which has the highest purity. Drina gravel has the highest purity, and it can be made of the highest quality building material, and the state itself should take care of it. It's a good thing the Prime Minister is here to know that this is an interstate problem, because the vast islands of the highest quality gravel, which catastranly belongs to Serbia, are exploited by entrepreneurs from Bosnia. That gravel ends up in Tuzla or who knows where, and catastraically it belongs to our citizens. They simply sold their right for a few thousand marks, and the value of such islands is tens of millions of euros. It's a great loss for the state of Serbia. I simply suggest that the Prime Minister try to sort of regulate these matters between these two states and protect these interests of ours. That resource is limited. When it comes to water resources, practically no one takes care of it. The energy potential of our rivers, springs and other resources are used without control and measure. The state of confusion is the most pronounced in the area of water supply, which is in the jurisdiction of several ministries, without the necessary coordination. Water supply restrictions and the question of water quality for drinking become a regular phenomenon, and in particular concerns the fact that more than 40% of the population is not in the public water system. In our water pipelines, water consumption per user is several times higher than in well-organised water pipelines of developed countries. Water loss in water systems is enormous, sometimes greater than actual consumption. The solution is required in the opening of new wells and projects financed from the state budget, rather than rationally using the necessary amounts of water. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) Therefore, the priority in reforms is certainly the restructuring of public water pipelines, which are the most sensitive part of the water business and are hit by large distributors because it is potentially very profitable jobs. Instead of legally regulating this area and starting the announced transformation of public waterways, it has entered into a donation programme and for the time being credit arrangements with uncertain consequences. The basic conclusion in the end is that the water infrastructure in the last two years, both organisationally and materially, has been further demoted. The situation can no longer be improved and remedied, but urgent systemic changes are necessary and the formation of a new business-style organisation is needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31399	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used this right, want to take part in the debate? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, and then MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31400	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, came to us from Dragan Veselinov without reporting his work. Two years and more of the report we've been waiting for, and we don't get it. Unfortunately, the report on his work every day can be seen in blocked traffic and in complaints that peasants across Serbia are making. Responsibilities, haughtiness were the markings of one agriculture minister, Dragan Veselinov. The reasons for his resignation certainly exist and I wouldn't enter them, these are personal things, and they're more than justifiable. That resignation was supposed to come much earlier than it was. But he must not be amnested by what he did as a minister of agriculture. More accurate than what he didn't do. But what was he doing? They've been sold candy for three euros. Was it the backbone of agriculture, stabilisation and restructuring policy? During his term, there was the largest sea of singing birds in Serbia. In Italy, seven people are held accountable for it. Does Serbia know who is responsible for this? In Serbia, you don't know. Is that why anyone answered? It's not. Is that why someone's gonna answer? Probably not, as in many other affairs and many other situations. There has been exports of sugar to European Union countries through the amount that we can produce, i.e. it can remain as a domestic surplus. Do you know the results of this affair? Has the Government Commission, led by Dragan Vesenov, announced to the public what it has established, what is really, who exported sugar, where this sugar is imported from and how much it is estimated to be quantities? According to some estimates, about 43m euros is an extra profit obtained by the fact that sugar is imported, repacked and exported, i.e. returned to the countries of the European Union. Did anyone answer for that? The affair broke out two months ago. The Commissions of Governments are changing. The directors of the Customs Administration are also changing, but we haven't seen the results. Are we going to see them, just like we're going to see about the bird affair? We will not see who is responsible, nor will the responsible be punished, and those who have earned the profits will be on the council of the president of Serbia-Montenegro's state union, Svetozar Marovic. It is a reward for good co-operation with the European Union, to sit on the council of the president of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. During his term of office, it was imported...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31401	People's MP, it's the fourth minute, and you didn't say one word about the subject. I warn you to get back on the agenda. (From O.R.: What's the topic? ) The theme is the choice of the Minister of Agriculture. Read the Rules of Procedure, the resignations are not discussed, nor is it decided. That's what I realized 10 days ago, and I don't want the MPs to abuse the Rules of Procedure and talk off-the-book. So, four minutes I think that's enough. I'm warning you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31402	Given that this is a very important area, and the agricultural and water resources are quite wide and it takes a lot of segments and that water industry may even need to have only a special ministry, given that Serbia is a agricultural country and that the irrigation channel system is something that is very important and abandoned, it is very important how the future minister will work. Whether he, like the previous one, will import genetically modified soy juice or make the irrigation system make it possible for us to have no deficits in soy, in some other agricultural products, so that we have to import them. If someone says that this Serbia can feed not only Serbia but Europe, and I can agree with that, then why does the most extensive imports of consumer food import into Serbia? Why are we importing food products of broad consumption, and Serbia can feed all over Europe? These are some things that the future agriculture minister also needs to take care of, not to call rain as his predecessor, but to do everything to make the system run and the irrigation canal system work. We're slaughtering, we're here somewhere with Albania by the percentage of the land, which is irrigated. You know, Serbia, which has been a lot of countries in Europe before, since Maria Teresa, Vojvodina who had a irrigation channel system, has come into a position to irrigate as many countries as one Albania is watering, which has invested more money in bunkers on beaches and everything else than in the development of agriculture. That is the state we are, I must admit, inherited, you have inherited it from the previous government, and even worse still, you will hand over to us when we are in power. These are important things to take care of. How did money from the agrarian budget get spent? That's what the future minister needs to take care of. Whether money from the agrarian budget, as it has been so far, will be transferred before the end of the year and poured into other budgets, because the minister could not spend it or the minister would ask for more funds to be put into the agrarian budget, so that subsidies could be increased, in order to invest more in the water industry, in order simply for our economy to live through short-term loans to farmers. So far, money from the agrarian budget has been spilling over for other purposes. There were not enough subsidies and what is very important was not a strategy for the development of agriculture in Serbia. We need a serious strategy for the development of agriculture in Serbia, we need a vision for the development of agriculture in Serbia, as Serbia should not be ashamed of being a highly developed agricultural country. There are people like that all over Europe. The countries that are members of the European Union are highly developed agricultural countries, i.e. they deal with agriculture. Start from the Netherlands, which is known for exporting flowers and other products, which have no heavy industry, there is nothing, and a lot of investment in it. Serbia can just become such a country if you have a plan to make Serbia such a state. Dragan Veselinov didn't have such a plan. Perhaps he preferred to watch Serbia become a big hunting ground for foreigners to come. Simply, Serbia must be a highly developed agricultural state. Here with a certain reserve I expect the future Minister of Agriculture to do something to do so, so that we no longer allow to import fertilizer from Romania, Ukraine or some other countries, and that our "Azotara" fertilizer factory in Panchev stands. That can't be allowed. Why did it come to us that "Azotara" stands for us and we import fertilizer from other countries? Does this contribute to the development of domestic economy, and is it good that one "Azotara" in Panchev, which can supply the entire region, the whole of Serbia and the whole of Serbia-Montenegro, can even export if it is adequately made of fertilizer, stands? She gets a small amount of gas, works for a month, then whether she can't or can't sell it, then she doesn't want someone to approve the contingents for the import of fertilizer, then she doesn't have the money to pay for the gas. You know, Serbia pays more expensive gas than any other state, about $185 is paid, and it was $105, the price went up, and Pancheva's "Azotara" stopped. She doesn't have the money to pay for the gas, because in other industries, gas is energy, and in Pancheese Azotari, gas is raw. Pancheva's "Azotara" gas as raw material should be obtained at affordable prices, i.e. it should receive domestic gas, whose price is between $80 and $90, and not imported Russian gas, whose price varies depending on the world market, to those figures when the work of "Azotara" is absolutely inert, and it also makes greater losses every day. So, on this plan, we need to make a recovery strategy for our fertilizer factory that is more quality than the fertilizer that's made in the surrounding countries, which we've imported; our farmers want to buy Azotara's fertilizer, but they don't want to pay it twice as much as anyone else. So, you have to create the conditions that "Azotara" works, that the gas that is raw material for "Azotara" is derived from domestic production, and that those whose gas energy is that gas is supplied elsewhere. Someone, more specifically, the previous minister doesn't care that "Azotara" works; when giving various contingents for the import of fertilisers to others, even from a donation from Japan that has arrived for the purchase of fertilizers, this donation is not given to Pancheque "Azotari" but has been given to a fertilizer factory in Romania, so the money that came from Japan has been invested in a fertilizer factory in Romania, and we haven't invested it in our "Azotara" that would live, work and produce the fertilizer that would be used here. (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) Of course. There are many things that have been wronged and where one better policy, one healthy strategy could be done a lot. What we're talking about are small shifts, but they could have normal effects and could fix the situation in this area. Here more than elsewhere, a responsible policy is needed, one strategy. If we talk about farmers, farmers, peasant households, we need household behavior, as every farmer in his house behaves; if he has to choose between tractors and passenger cars, he will sell a passenger car, because he needs a tractor to process the country and in a few years he can buy that car. That's how we're supposed to act. We need to see what contributes to our country's better functioning, and what is something that is a luxury and what in the transition process, that is, when we don't have enough resources, contributes to some other things, rather than raising agricultural production. It should also be borne in mind that in 2001 agricultural production growth was recorded only because of climate conditions...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31403	People's MP, I warn you twice to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31404	I'm talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31405	It's not a free topic -- the state of agriculture, but you have a concrete proposal to elect a Minister of Agriculture. Please stick to the agenda theme. As far as I know, you're a lawyer, you understand the Rules of Procedure, you understand what the subject means. I'm warning you next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31406	I haven't heard from this jam in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31407	I warned you about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31408	Okay. Since the subject is the Minister of Agriculture's choice, I give suggestions to the future Minister of Agriculture, we have reservations for his choice, of course, but we can't for anyone until he gets to that post to say that he will act as his predecessor. These are some suggestions that can contribute, Mrs. Micic, to his work. We have the best intentions of presenting the problem of the Panchea Azotare, where there are many employees; it is related to Pancheva and it is local, Mr. Zivkovic, it should be, and I would like each of us to think globally, and it works locally, it is an ecological password where we should take care of it. Simply, the Pancian "Azotara" is important for the region because of many cooperatives, because of many others who are directed to it and who would benefit and interest from doing so. That is precisely what I am saying because of the fact that, in the direction of building a strategy for the development of agriculture in Serbia, a future minister should, if elected, make sure that this "Azotara" is revived and that it is possibly modernised. That's also a question for Minister Vlahovic, of course. I expect that there is good co-operation in the government among ministers and that they will bring finally, the entire government, a strategy for the development of agriculture, precisely in the direction of this modernization, because these are the old 60-year-old plants bought from the United States, and some parts are done in Spain, so there are a lot of things to be taken care of. As DSS, we cannot support this election of a member of the government, but we will certainly be at our disposal if the minister accepts it, unlike the previous one, who was not at the 22nd session of the Serbian Parliament's Agriculture Committee. Our members will, with the best will, do everything possible to create and vote in this assembly one very important act of the agricultural development strategy, and we will do everything possible to ensure that finally agriculture in this country gets the place it deserves, because Serbia would have to be a highly developed agricultural country, and we should not be ashamed of it. On the contrary, we should be proud and at this point realize that agriculture is impossible to be our main export product, but in a further period we should think about it. Serbia should, as before and before, scientifically create through its institutes all those topics and everything that belongs to agricultural production. It is simply not necessary to neglect the part that Dragan Vesenov was doing, and in this direction there are some suggestions that we can give to Mr Jevtic, and I expect him to report in this assembly at least once a year and to conduct a debate as we did not lead on Dragan Veselinov. I think he'll benefit from that, too, because he'll hear a series of suggestions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31409	The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, and then Dragan Rafaelovic, deputy president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31410	Indeed, the theme of today's session and this item of the agenda is the choice of a minister and should not go far and describe what is the situation in agriculture, the village, the water industry, but should point out whether the Prime Minister's proposal is acceptable for the National Assembly, and unless it is acceptable to point out which reasons prevent or influence some MPs from voting for the proposed candidate. Of course, the Serbian Radical Party will not support the proposal, it will vote against. I am also expressing the view of the SRS that we are somehow brought into an unpleasant situation: this is probably the first time that the candidate for minister is sitting in the hall. So far, it has been a practice for a man to follow the transfer on the first floor, so when the vote is completed, he comes here and takes an oath, becomes a member of the government, and, fully with the other members of the government, he can represent the government at the next session on the agenda. This is how we came into an awkward situation to hear about what the minister is going to do from the Prime Minister, and that is how it should be, to address the candidate, and he is unable to respond; others here call him - where his strategy is, where his opinion is, and where there is this provision of the Constitution and the law that the candidate for minister should present his programme, while he is still a citizen. I think the Presidency of the National Assembly made one mistake and this way completely turned the discussion on the other, unnecessary side. So, today's topic is whether the proposed candidate can meet what is the legal obligation of one minister as a function of a single government body, to take care of law enforcement in the field of agriculture, and probably today's topic should be whether the proposed candidate can also meet the political and ideological requirements imposed by the government, or by the Prime Minister, since we still have a constitutional provision where it is practically the Government of one president. He presented his programme, for the programme he received support and determined the persons who would implement the programme. But now that we're talking, we're in doubt again because we don't have a program that applies to agriculture. We do not have the programme, because here we are initially told that it is the Government of Continuity, three areas are listed, that the new minister will be worthy to work in the area of improving production in agriculture, increasing exports, making new laws and harmonising relations with the European Union, and that he will participate in some negotiations. I doubt they'll be involved in the negotiations. For the negotiations, others are in charge, and as far as harmonisation is concerned, well, we have long been quite harmonised with standards, both technical and economic and market-related, as far as the European Union is concerned, but since 1992 and 1993 the process has been significantly halted, and several steps have been put back. I rarely use the opportunity to support the presentation of an MP, but I have to support one MP from DOS who said here, you know, we go bears to the hole. It is an accurate finding, because in the area of agriculture we are struggling with how to achieve the balances, and Western Europe is fighting for incentives and other preferences, because their stock funds are full, full, have their own market surpluses, they need new markets, they got this market here. Of course, it is not cost-effective in the way they would like, but some great interest in our agricultural and food products regarding Europe does not exist. There's something about basic agricultural products, first of all something that represents some raw materials. In the area of the food industry, which is resolutely belonging to the Ministry of Agriculture, perhaps the most work to be done is the most work to be done. I doubt there's anything going to be done, since that complex is in stagnation. The second thing, which would probably help not only this one but also all future governments, is to finally resolutely distinguish what is the jurisdiction of which the ministry, because there is a lot of overlaps, especially some ministries are closely following what originally belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture, overlapping with industry, overlapping with other ministries, and we have a lot of chaos from earlier, now even deeper. Speaking of which, I have to "attack" a part of the situation in agriculture and remind the MPs that in May 2002, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a proposal to vote against Agriculture Minister Dragan Veselinov's mistrust. At the time, the proposal could not be included in the agenda, although it noted what it had missed and did badly by Dragan Veselinov. Unfortunately, there had to be a death case in order to act as resignation and then open a box where everyone can now criticise Minister Dragan Veselinov. It is not correct for this man or for the National Assembly, nor for those who pointed out in time that something was wrong with the management of the Ministry of Agriculture. You see for yourself -- if you go past truth and past justice, then the truth that follows is painful, tragic. I wouldn't want that to happen to this candidate who was proposed for the Minister of Agriculture. What should be said - I hope you noticed, for the past few months, that these great sponsors from abroad are quite washing their hands and being fenced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No more support, no more perseverance, except for conditioning, and all future negotiations will be the same as before, a place where a warrant is obtained, and not where it's found what would be the interest of the people in this area, so as far as that expert work is concerned, I can say, judging by this biography as it was brought here, that the proposed candidate is quite DOS. He was a DOS official since October 5th. Before that, he was the official of some other party, because she allowed him to be the director of some institute. Let those who were ideologically close to him think about it before October 5th, even those after October 5th, because the Dosmanians showed that everything they used out of the previous regime, because at one point they cried out for experts, so they had to draw everything and everything, but after one time they used it up, it got wrinkled and thrown. So Lukic will pass soon, so will some others who have probably done the dirtiest jobs to get in touch with DOS and prevent their own responsibility. I'd just like to warn the proposed candidate that he has that in mind when he communicates in that one-way sense, that he gets orders on what he needs to do. I'm scared when I hear he's an expert. I remember immediately that joke about Djelic, instead of the lamb, a charlain went away. There will be no case here, because the gentleman is certainly an expert and this biography shows that it is understood in this area, but I really doubt what it could have made the gentleman agree, firstly, to cooperate in something, and secondly, to be complicit today at the moment when this is literally said, all in a state of decomposition and it is only a matter of days when it will be announced that the Government of Serbia no longer exists, no longer works. Small parties catch some of their connections. You see for yourself, those who were the most embraced for the post of Minister of Agriculture simply accepted and gave the place, as one of the SPS said yesterday, but it was also wrong, it is not the place reserved for Vojvodina. Ivko Djonovic was in his own time, has nothing to do with Vojvodina. Apparently, the agreement between Canka and these autonomists to be a man in Belgrade in this term is likely to suggest that they are aware that there will be disastrous results in agriculture this year, that there will be great dissatisfaction and that in history it should be recorded, so say the autonomists, when the Serbian leads agriculture. That's something to be taken care of. At the very end, believe me, if you're such an expert, I'm simply surprised at what you're so compelled to accept that at this moment, when mice have escaped from the ship, you accept that you're carrying the burden of responsibility for something that's going down, which is bad, which has an uncertain end, and you see it yourself. People say that every day at barricades. God forbid there are more barricades, no one cares about the riots. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote in favour of this proposal, but we simply say it was much better to have discussed the entire government's resignation today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31411	The word is from MP Dragan Rafaelovic, deputy president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31412	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we drove the mice off the ship on October 5th, and they thought they were huge beasts. The Christian Party had a reserve on the election of a new minister for principled reasons. Mr. Bojan Pajtic got it right, we wanted to hear how the new candidate thinks, what he plans, if he feels the problems of the village. I don't think it tastes good to talk about Dragan Veselinov's resignation, and forget that he introduced the largest subsidies and premiums in Serbia's history. Members of the Parliament, do you know that at this point, the prelevman, which was introduced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the Ministry of Agriculture, for importing pounds of cheese, is a flat price for cheese in some regions of Sjenica, Leskovec, etc.? So, you're protecting production. You forgot that when you were the government only in my village, there was a bus behind a bus full of sausages, cheeses, tramposts, and people were waiting to buy and sell on fleas. This time it's all going through the shops. Why is it imported? That's why. This is where one of my colleagues said that a peasant, a good host between a car and a tractor would be identified as a tractor. Those peasants who love a tractor more than cars can no longer get into the tractor, because more than 60% of Serbian peasants are so old, and they process the country, they can't climb a tractor, let alone drive it. I've been in the field this morning, I'm living off it, and I'm hanging out, I'm a peasant, and I know these youngsters, this little thing that's left, they're still not going to pick a tractor, because their car is much more tempting. That's exactly what the new candidate for the minister realized. We had a conversation last night. One of the key things in his thinking is the return of young people to the countryside, the restoration of rural areas, the problem of drought. I would add one finding here, one important thing: to prevent the export of wheat at any cost as soon as possible, because there are announcements on the world market that it is a catastrophic fruit of wheat. So she didn't give birth badly only in Serbia, but everywhere. The peasant pensions are not in the hands of this ministry, but the peasants are, and that's why they're very important. Legal regulations, and I would add here an inheritance law, and you as prime minister have to take care of it when our fathers and grandfathers, and I'm already a grandfather, we're not going to decide which kid we're going to leave the country to, and that's why we have to make it through the law, because this depravity is really disastrous. The minister's candidate saw it. So I was ready and my party to vote against if we don't hear and see. It was a problem, a procedural mistake, primarily the chairman of the Agriculture Committee. The question was principled and we solved it. The position of the institute is also very important for the minister's candidate (and I think the new minister), and we all know what's going on and what many mechanics are trying to do with the institutes. Serbia, again my colleague's response, is importing food because this government, this ministry, Dragan Veselinov and the new minister found destroyed agriculture. From who? From the Government of People's Unity and Government before that. The minister cannot solve the problem of rejuvenating the village, but he can launch a programme to get the young back and see that they will live better as Serbian hosts, not as porters and drivers. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, the question of the new minister has been resolved for us and I hope that we will soon congratulate on the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31413	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic, president of the "Serbia" parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31414	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament group "Serbia" and the Peasant Party of Serbia, and how much it cares about the development of agriculture and water economy, life in the country, the status of peasants and its role in the existence of the family and the like. I often use the term - when a peasant works well, lives well, and therefore all citizens in cities live better. In order for all of this to be realized and realised, agricultural production, as the most important segment of the economy in general, is certainly important, the Ministry of Agriculture and therefore the first man, i.e. Agriculture and Water Minister, which is still on the agenda of the republic's parliament today, the election of agriculture and water ministers, and the proposal for the post was made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Zoran Zivkovic. I would not be concerned at this point with what former Agriculture Minister Dragan Veselinov has done and therefore has submitted an irrevocable resignation, which does not mean that we, as MPs and this home, should not have one analysis, namely the debate on the report on the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Affairs, including the government in general, because as a member of the Committee on Agriculture in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that I am interested in this, and therefore the Peasant Party of Serbia, to which I belong. I believe that this opinion is also Prime Minister Zivkovic himself, and I believe that the report will be on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament soon. But not to owe much what it was, because in the old saying - after the color each soldier can be a general, but to refer to the very proposal to elect a minister for agriculture and water industry, which is Dr Stojan Jevtic. In the proposal for the selection of the Minister of Agriculture, we received the biography of Mr Jevtic, as well as his movements in the area of agriculture, his results and everything else that is important that we can define ourselves, or declare ourselves as the MPs for his choice or non-election. In consultation with the members of the executive board of my Peasant Party of Serbia, and according to what was said about Mr Jevtic, and in the very proposal of the prime minister, we have concluded that on these occasions it is a fully acceptable proposal to choose Mr Jevtic as Minister of Agriculture. I'd like to make a brief comment about what I said. Until the regular parliamentary elections, it remained for years and a few months, which is very important in this case, that Mr Jevtic is in the process of taking place in the ministry's work, and the current developments in agriculture in general. In the past, he was in the cabinet of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and he continued his duties in the cabinet of the current prime minister, Mr Zivkovic, in the area of agriculture, which is nothing foreign to him, where he is immediately involved in the implementation of the government's programme in this area. Out of all of this, Serbian MP group and the Peasant Party of Serbia, whose member they are, support the proposal to elect the agriculture and water ministers, Mr Stojan Jevtic, and we will vote in favour of his election. Finally, one of my personal messages to Mr. Jevtic, if he is elected Minister of Agriculture - that you have stronger ties and contacts with the Committee on Agriculture in the Serbian Parliament, which, hand to heart, your predecessor was missing. Secondly, Mr Yevtic, the Peasant Party of Serbia provides you with the possibility of broad co-operation in the future, because we are also interested in improving agriculture and life in the country as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31415	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31416	I thank all those who spoke and all supported my proposal, that Dr Stojan Jevtic become the new agriculture minister, because no one has challenged that candidacy, in any way appropriate to this agenda point and to what has been said today and yesterday. I can express my satisfaction with giving a good candidate and I am sure that he will justify trust and do what is possible in Serbia over the next two years, how long this government will last, until the next elections, that agricultural production and all that is related to it will rise to a higher level. Only briefly, because of those who spoke yesterday about some data, to give what the Serbian government has done for the past two years. I don't want to tell you what kind of condition was found in January 2001, it doesn't interest anyone anymore, and it doesn't have to interest him, everyone knows what the situation was. What has been done is that the tax on mineral fertilisers, on livestock, on plant protection products, on seeds, fruit material, on agricultural machinery has been lifted; that the reduced customs duty on imports of all reproductive materials, which are related to agricultural production; that domestic transport is completely free, as it has never been in the last 60 years, means that the government does not determine the prices of raspberries, raspberries, or cherries, nor buys, nor makes recommendations to anyone to sell it, nor has anything to do with it. Thus, the protests that exist now are protests that probably have some other motive or misunderstanding of the government's position in relation to these products, or some political motive. Whatever it is, my message is that we won't tolerate roadblocks for those reasons. Anyone who is unhappy can come and shoot the Serbian Government with eggs or whatever they want, but don't stop other people from using the roads. For strategic agricultural products imports are 30%. That means there's also customs protection and, as you know, a lot of types of extra customs protection. The tax on the marketing of fresh meat, sugar, oils, fish, eggs, fruit and vegetables has also been abolished, which definitely has a positive impact on the production of these products. It also provided favourable loans to invest in agricultural production through the Development Fund. Domestic production of tractors, combination and other machinery is also encouraged, not to the level that would be sufficient for the factories that produce them to do so at full capacity, but have never worked at full capacity. Unfortunately, these are not factories that could have risen from the 50s to the level of the beginning of this century in these two years, and that would have failed no one, and neither would a government that has responsibility for Serbia's leadership for two and a half years. The customs rate was reduced from 10% to 1% in 2001 and 2002 to a certain contingent on imports of machinery due to the lack of it on our market. As for the agrarian budget, I heard yesterday that it was reduced year after year. For 2001 it was 5.1 billion, for 2002 7.3 billion, for 2003 8.4 billion. It's not big money, but it's definitely not smaller than it was in 2002, 2001 and years before that. Azotara Panchevo and Azotara Subotica have absolutely nothing to do with the Ministry of Agriculture. Everyone understands that. It's true that fertilizer is used for agriculture, but it's part of the industry and all the objections about it may have some political meaning, but practically with this choice have nothing to do with it. Otherwise, aid and resources have been provided to revive production in these two azotries, which have been working for the past two years much more than they have done in the last 10 years. Why is their production expensive? Probably not just because of the gas, but because it's old technology, like someone here said, and unfortunately it's the state of things and it can't be fixed any faster. I don't think there's any other solution than privatisation, as well as many other things. Generally, there is always one run from two positions according to what the government should do in relation to the economy. From the same parties one day comes the assessment that the Serbian government has put under its fist all economics, that no one can do anything, that no one can go on the official trip, let alone produce anything, if he does not ask someone in the Serbian government, which is not true. On the other hand, you are forcing us to participate in what is absolutely not the government's job, such as raspberries, blackberries, cherry, such as anything that is related to agricultural products that are on the free trade regime, and almost everything is on it. What is the government's obligation is to buy through the stock reserves a sufficient number of strategic products that will allow no problem in supplying the population, if there is a situation that will be difficult or difficult, such as, say, drought now. I assure you that there is no dilemma that from what exists in the stock reserves, from what will be a small breed of wheat due to drought, this product will be in sufficient quantities for the next year, and I expect it for all other types of products. Otherwise, it was the same story that production has been reduced for the last two or three years, which is not true again. In 2000 wheat was 1,924,000 tonnes, last year it was 2,250,000 tonnes, which is an increase of nearly 20% and 15%, respectively. This year, it's going to be smaller, because of the drought. As for corn, nearly three million tonnes, over 5.5 million tonnes last year, which is an increase almost twice. Sugar tail increased twice; sunflower, compared to 2000, increases 40%; soybeans, from 170,000 tonnes to 240,000 tonnes; tobacco, from 11,000 tonnes to 30,000 tonnes. Grapes are about 20%. So I'm not saying that we should be satisfied with these results, it's certain that there are much greater potentials in our agriculture than it is used, but it's definitely not true that the trend is negative. Some have already mentioned that the second situation is in the purchase, i.e. in the processing of raw milk and that there is an increase of 17%. Exports have been mentioned as something that has been reduced, and I am definitely not satisfied with our foreign trade; ours, it's true that we import everything and everything, but it's not imports by the Serbian government, and it buys foreign food, foreign drinks, or I don't know what it has to do with agriculture and agricultural products, but it's a market issue, and for two reasons. One is psychological, because the hungry eyes have been for the last ten years, and they remember from ten years ago that everything was in our shops. It is certain that there are many things in imports, especially food products, which are completely unnecessary, or can be cake cream for some gourmets, for some people who like to have 100 species of cucumbers or don't know what, but, in general, there is no need for these products because there is a shortage of these products on our market. It is true that our food is more expensive than the food around us, and that is a huge problem. I think the job of the government of Serbia and the competent ministry is to get to the point of making these differences as little as possible, but not to go into the extreme that we now have, that our livestock is cheaper per kilogram than the food it eats. That's what the new minister will have as his first task, along with the drought. Let me tell you about exports, exports are 10.8% higher in 2001 than in 2000, and in 2002 by 69.5%, rather than in 2001. So count that the increase is over 70% compared to 2001, which means almost 100%. They're small values, to be clear, and there's no way we can be satisfied, but the trend is positive. As for sugar, I, before you heard about it, said clearly and publicly that anyone who did anything in that business that was against the law would be punished and I'm staying on it. You heard the commission finished their work, I didn't see the report, I don't know why I'd have to see it, but I think it's better if that report was seen by prosecutors, courts and police. They've seen that report and I expect to run the procedures that are necessary if there's a violation of the law. As for sugar, it is another proof of something that is by no means the mark of the Serb people, but it seems to be the mark of politicians from Serbia. It's making noise where no one else sees the noise, no one in Europe has mentioned sugar in any of the media. European media is talking about one quantity of sugar that has been repacked and which has been caught in Croatia, another amount of sugar caught in Italy originating in Croatia. And these favourable conditions for the export of sugar are not lifted by Serbia, or Serbia-Montenegro, to the countries of the Western Balkans, or all of them. If there were any failures, they'll determine the investigation, and I expect it to be very soon. Whether customs was able to guarantee that it was not, we know that, but that customs duty, like many other things, was found in a state where we have border crossings, where there are no computers, but there is no water or electricity, such as many border crossings towards Croatia. It's a state that doesn't need to be an excuse for us, but it should be an initial fact when you're looking at what could have been done in two or two and a half years. I'm not making excuses, I'm just saying what's going on and what's going on. Now we will have, by adopting customs law, open credit, with a lot of money to be used in a clear way, to raise the technical level of our customs. It started some time ago and the work on the Horgos crossing, but we have 15 more border crossings that do not meet the conditions to be a trade, let alone be border crossings. In these conditions, customs duties were hardly able to guarantee everything without a single system, that is, whether everything in the transport of sugar was true, but nowhere has it been determined, as far as I know by now, everything about the repacking of sugar. It's a funny situation, because if someone wanted to do it, to import sugar, to re-export, there's no need to pack it again, not to at least use that technical error. If someone did it, if someone was breaking the laws, and the repacking certainly wasn't, and I can bet on it, because that's a stupid way to change the origin of sugar. There's no need to do that, except for what warehouses in Barbarian did 15 or 20 years ago. Therefore, and I thank you for all the suggestions you gave the new minister, he sat here just to hear all your objections; I hope that part of it was useful, will help him in his work, as of Tuesday when I think it is a vote, and I assure you that the Serbian government will remain on course to do everything in agriculture that is possible. Neither the government of Prime Minister Djindjic, nor the government of continuity, whose president I am, has ever said it will do wonders. The miracles are God's thing, no one on earth can do miracles, and we didn't even say that we could make perpetum mobiles that would come from Panchetic Azotara or I don't know what to do in two years something that never happened; Perpetum mobiles don't exist, it's taught in the seventh or eighth grade physics, and we're going to do what's possible. I'm sure Mr. Stojan Jevtic has all the qualities to finish this farm business and I invite you to vote for him on Tuesday, so I heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31417	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind you that yesterday at about 13,15 hours I have advertised a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 216, and asked the Administrative Committee to plead on this matter, that it has been 24 hours, that Mr Ristic, at least I did not see on the ad board that a session of the Administrative Board was even scheduled, who knows which time he deafens his parliamentary commitment to decide within a reasonable period of time on his injury to the Rules of Procedure when the MP asks for it. If he has a problem with how he responds, and I suppose he does, I will further, since the President of the National Assembly is using his powers under Article 28. The Rules of Procedure failed to co-ordinate the work of this committee, reminding it of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 2, and reading it: "The first regular session begins on the first working day of March, and the second regular session begins on the first working day of October. A regular session cannot last longer than 90 days." The first regular session, therefore, began on March 1st, it was 90 days ago, the sentence expired, after which we had an extraordinary session and today the sixth day is how we work in an extraordinary session; let them deal with the bill a little, and they will see that Tomislav Nikolic could already enter the National Assembly building yesterday, but the president of the National Assembly said yesterday that she had decided not to attend the session until further notice. Apparently, as she imagined, neither in the second call of this national assembly, because the elections are absolutely certain now in the fall. Tomislav Nikolic will neither have to sit at the door of the President of the National Assembly, because it is only her discretionary right, which she confirmed yesterday, to give a new discipline, not knowing why. Article 79, paragraph 3, states that the National Assembly is meeting in an emergency session at the request of at least a third of the total number of MPs or at the request of the Government, with an advanced agenda. There you might be able to count on working days, but once in the autumn, you said it was a regular session, and the assembly was in a permanent session since October 1st. Thus, for 90 days, Saturday, Sunday, Thursday, Friday, anyway, when the Assembly works, and the regular meeting lasts 90 days. That was the meaning of this contrived Rules of Procedure of yours, which you are now still interpreting. So I ask that you set a break and use your authority and order the Administrative Board to hold a session and let us know what my business advertising has decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31419	I only have a brief notice, i.e. information for you: a session of the Administrative Committee is scheduled for today at 1400 hours. I'm sorry you guys can't be part of this. I'm sorry that the radical party is not involved in the Committee's work, otherwise you'd know and we wouldn't be talking here for three minutes. (From the O.R.: Which room? ) I am concluding the search on this agenda point and, pursuant to Article 187(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule on Thursday (June 26th) a day for the vote on a proposal by the Prime Minister to elect a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Agriculture and Water Management Dr Stojan Jevtic. Thank you, Prime Minister. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organizations in the Subsidisation of Organised Crime (Common Principled Search with the 3rd and 4th Points of the Agenda) Consensual Decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on draft laws proposed by Parliament Siniša Mitrović, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that the total time, according to Article 90, is five hours. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to file a word application on this agenda point. So it's a common principle search. I am opening a joint principle search on: - Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, - Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, - a bill on the prevention of violence and misbehaving in sports events. I received a notice from the proposing representative, Mr Batic's Justice Minister, that he will be in the Assembly at 15.00 hours. I'm asking if the committees want to take part in the debate. No, I don't. ) Does MP Dragan Todorovic, who delivered an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee on the examination of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31420	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been very pleased to issue an opinion on the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, for the simple reason that such a proposal for amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of organised crime confirmed everything that I was paying attention to at the time of the emergency, trying to explain with the fact that it is not good in advance to bring some legal Marquisms, in order to create political conditions for any political acts. Reminders for the sake of, and then we held a joint discussion of three or four draft laws, which is still not good, because such a law as law on the prevention of organised crime cannot be considered in a package with other laws. It used to be the Arms and Ammunition Act. Also, amendments to the Criminal Law, which is a kind of paradox, the Republic's parliament is considering today along with the Law on combating violence on sports grounds. They're changing the Penal Code again, because then they weren't complete, or these are now supposed to supplement those that were months ago. Indeed, it is absurd that this parliament is dealing with changes to the law of the judiciary every month or two, whether it is criminal-processing laws, whether it is criminal laws, because there are much more problems in this country that should be given priority than the laws or ideas that lawmakers, more specifically the Government, come to mind in the area of justice. The reminders for three times, we've changed a set of law on justice, we've changed the law on organised crime, and I really don't think that's good. As far as the amendments to the provisions of this law are concerned, I will remind you that our proposal was not to rush the introduction of any elements to extend police detention, since it is not in agreement with the provisions of the European Charter of Human Rights, nor is it in agreement with the provisions of our so-called Small charters, the Charter of State Communities of Serbia-Montenegro. Neither can this be granted by the international public, nor by the professional public, nor in any case, nor have we even suggested that it be in a hurry to pass such a law, to wait for the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights, etc. However, with all my attempts to draw attention to what is wrong with these laws, such a law on the repression of organised crime has been passed, with the extension of police detention, which is an absolute violation of human rights. Today we are changing it not because you promised a few months ago to review these provisions within 90 days, but because you have to respect and accept the fact that such a law is inadmissible, that the country in which police detention is allowed is three or four months from now who knows how much, a non-democratic country, that it is not a country that respects human rights, what is guaranteed by acts of the European Union, acts of the United Nations Assembly. Indeed, all arguments contribute to the fact that we, a little over a month ago, were right, and today's proposal for this law absolutely confirms it. Once again, I am very pleased to have been and today I am in a position to confirm as a lawyer the truthfulness of all of my arguments that I have expressed behind this pay phone, and I am even more pleased that you, as an MP, are thus confirming that we from the Socialist Party of Serbia were right, as well as our fellow opposition colleagues, when we pointed out the wrong provisions of this law, which you today admit were not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31421	Do MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the debate by applying for a word. The first registered speaker is MP Nebojsa Lekovic, followed by MP Petar Petrovic. Is MP Lekovic in the O.R.? No, I don't. ) Is MP Petar Petrovic in the O.R.? No, I don't. ) The word is a folk letter from the Verica Radet, followed by a folk MP, Rada Bajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31422	Although it is pointless to talk about the proposals of these laws without a representative of the Government, I will still address the MPs, and I guess we'll be able to speak to a representative of the Government as well. Yesterday, the Prime Minister here gave a political hour to the MPs, and within that political hour, he finally told us that all government ministers are every day to check in front of the MPs. After that, he instructed MP Sinisa Mitrovica to propose that this National Assembly joins the grandmothers and frogs, so that we discuss proposals for a law that is neither legal nor technically compatible, if not for nothing and then because of the fact that the two draft laws here should represent Minister Vladan Batic and one proposal by Minister Mihajlovic. When it comes to the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the prevention of organised crime, I expected that the Government would propose to us to put out of force this law, for the simple reason that the police minister daily informs the public that there is no more organised crime in Serbia. If there's no organized crime, then I don't know why we need this law anymore. In particular, the SRS representatives spoke about the bill when, in the near past, the law was on the agenda in its original text. That's when we said everything we needed to say about this law. We then pointed out that the bill was unconstitutional, that the bill was contrary to international conventions and human rights declarations. All that we've been saying, now the government is giving us as its proposal and deleting the members we've suggested since then that they shouldn't be an integral part of the law. These days, we are listening to Minister Batic, who from the media is giving us stories about the original text of this law. If I hadn't been there, I'd think the law was passed on the opposition's proposal, not on the government's proposal. Now he's telling us that it's unconstitutional, that it's contrary to all the acts, meaning everything we've been saying, and then they still agree nicely with the Constitutional Court, so the Constitutional Court, like, declares illegal, or unconstitutional provisions of this law. Simply, the government's behaviour towards the MPs has indeed lost all meaning and such irresponsibility will have to be charged very quickly in the elections, which will certainly be in the autumn of this year. Just one more sentence, about this law. According to Minister Batic - this law, and I'm talking about the law in the original text, it had to be passed because the state reacted in the necessary defence and in extreme need. This is the bigger pearl of Vladan Batic than when he didn't know when Dusan's code was passed. As far as the proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, we in the SRS think, and through amendments, it is unnecessary to make such amendments, and in particular, imagine, this is the fifth amendment of the Criminal Code for an incomplete year. Give it once, let the minister of justice and let the government sit down and make a valid, human proposal. These supplements are completely unnecessary because the Criminal Law already regulates this matter, these additions by the Government show obvious mistrust in the judicial branch of power. I guess they should change all the judges, but you don't have as many of your judges as you need to apply the law as you want to, and then you want to make a commitment to something that's not mandatory, or discretionary is the judge's matter of whether he's going to take away the case that came from these crimes. Unfortunately, I don't have much time and I have to tell you all this quickly. I'm going to say very briefly about the bill on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events. The essence of this bill is that the government wants the MUP to do what its regular work is to preserve public order and peace on the basis of some concluded contracts. Apparently, the government sees sports clubs have money, so here's a chance to make some of that money this way, Dusan Mihajlovic. That's probably why Dusan Mihajlovic is not here today, because he's already in charge of the government's contract with sports clubs, to agree on how much sport club he needs to take money to make representatives of the ministry do their day-to-day work and preserve public order and peace on sports grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31423	The word has a folk MP Rada Bajic, followed by Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31424	Dear People's MPs, before us, I don't know whose proposal, three laws have been passed, so that we can declare it within a few hours, or the SPS parliamentary group three laws in 30 minutes. In the end, none of those who should have heard, who passed these laws, and probably never or were very little present. I'm only going to talk about one law, because we've split between us who's going to talk about what law, about the law on preventing violence and misbehave on sports grounds. Individuals don't seem to have ever set foot on a sports field, and they don't know what it means to come to one game and face that kind of behavior, and they've passed the law. First, this law is simply inapplicable or applicable but difficult for many clubs in a country that financially cannot be equipped to enforce the provisions of this law. It's vague and inconclusive of this law. Does the law apply to top-notch clubs, international games and hundreds of games played in the first and second leagues? Whether these are high-risk games that must meet the conditions, that is, all of these provisions that the law provides. So, what about thousands of small games and thousands of small derbys that are extremely risky by the organizers, especially between rural areas where rivalry is extremely high, let's say it's like a first league derby, or especially if it's about first or somewhere to enter. Then 5-6 thousand fans are gathered and it is impossible to implement the provisions of this law, it knows who was at such matches, and I have attended hundreds or thousands of games throughout Vojvodina, whether as a responsible person, whether as a team leader, whether as a player. It's impossible to implement these provisions of the law. I don't see if anyone's gonna be accepted to be an organizer, or a club president, and he's got to be in jail tomorrow, or he's gonna pay the fine because he's made some kind of failure to organize these games. Let me, then I like to stay at home and be with my family, not go to a game that is absolutely always at risk and then pay out of my pocket, or go to jail, or that a club that has a total of 500-600 thousand per year has to pay between 200 and 400 grand. Article 2 states that the object for the event includes both the sports field and the theatre. Were those who made the law going around thousands of terrains, even to another duchy league, to see that there was no theater at all, just a fence around the field, which can simply skip a child and you can't control who's coming, or you can't sell tickets. Is that club supposed to be shut down? Do you need to disband him, destroy him? Just leave only a hundred clubs to live in this country. To be clear, absolutely this law is in the right sense, a law with all the positive provisions, needs every country and every sports society to prevent riots, because every real athlete is absolutely against improper behavior and riots on the ground. But can that man and that team carry him out? Absolutely not. He says -- the director's office must in the driveways of playgrounds and stadiums first directs the players of the opposing team through a special fence, and secondly, to control who's coming. I'm telling you, go through Vojvodina in the second duchy league -- half the court has only a fence around the playground and no theater. Is it necessary to place 1,000 directors in the surrounding streets in the driveway to control who's drunk, do they wear anything, and is he drugged? Gentlemen, that's impossible. To hire all the SUP of the New Sad, or the Tower, or the Vrbbas, is impossible on those small terrains to do so. And the organizer gets in a situation to pay the fine or punish his club. It's still said - no liquor sales. Well, we can't in the local community ban every bar or bar from selling drinks for an hour or three hours before the game and after the game, when he's doing it, and he's doing it. There are no conditions to control it, nor can we forbid it, only the organizer of a high-risk game. Should the SUP go and close all cafes in local communities? Really, whoever was working in the sport when he read this law saw it being done by a man who had never seen what a sports event was. Is it possible not to mix fans? It's impossible, simply because there's no theater and access to a playground and they're interfering. Is it possible to control that someone here doesn't throw out a steam that's unacceptable? Here, let's just go back to the Star-Partizan derby. Is there anyone who can forbid, say, a choir of fans from the north or south from running a steamer that's inappropriate? Is there any police that will empty the north or south of that game, to bring order? It doesn't exist. Then let the enforceable provision be written, which is acceptable. I completely agree that as an organizer, I can't have someone entering my field, attacking my judge, attacking my opponent's player, or entering the premises where the delegate and the judges are. It's my job to do it. But for example, you play a game in a village, and if you win, they wait for you on your way out of the village, phone your car, that and that number, come out of the village, you don't get stones. Is the man who ran that club responsible for attacking him with rocks? Well, no, he can't control the village for an hour and a half after the game, or two militiamen. I was in a place where we played an important derby and the judge told me in halftime, when I started protesting -- man, I have a family, I need to get my head out of the village alive. I was disfellowshipped by a delegate just because I objected to him to warn the judge how to judge, because the game was staged, and when I went to tell the police - well, that you allow me to be harassed by fans. I won't say the words he said again, he just said - who called you and why you came here. Two or three local cops who secure the game are only here to help the club win. And, in the end, what about those who launder money leading clubs? That attitude and the judge and all those who come, and how to get you to the audience next year, when they're visiting you, to cheer rightly, when you know you're being drastically stolen, because that local mobster or businessman has ordered himself that the team must be his champion this year, or he'll abandon him. Simply, there is no implementation in amateur sport of these rules or you will destroy them completely financially. How can I provide wet knots on the playground when I have one entrance and only one wet knot in the locker room. Please withdraw this law, because this is funny to apply, or it will only apply to the clubs of the first and second federal leagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31425	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. The word is in the afternoon part of Petar Cvetkovic, followed by Ljubodrag Grbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum and we can continue the debate. According to applications for a word in the joint principled search, the word is issued by MP Petar Cvetkovic, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the next one declared for the word... I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Justice Minister Vladan Batic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament , I was in the Serbian Parliament from 10.00 to 11:00, from 12:00 to 13:00 and from 15.00 to 16:30 just to explain that neither the government nor me as minister of justice were to ignore parliament, and I would not say anything in the name of Parliament's way of working so that it would not be misread. [[growls]] As far as I'm concerned... [[Sagar...]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the Bill of Amendments is concerned... [[growls]] I came here with a desire to honor you as Members of the People and to honor the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and if you don't want me to say anything about the bill [[Sagar.]] Thank you. [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31428	I would ask the MPs to respect the dignity of the congregation and to allow all speakers to address the congregation. The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, the DSS parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Ljubodrag Grbic, a member of the DOS-Reform Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31429	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that Mr. Minister left the session because I've just wanted to hear the government's explanation for the new amendment, who knows which one in a row, the Criminal Law of Serbia, in these two years, but we haven't been able to get an explanation. At the very beginning, I have to say very briefly that it is completely inappropriate and I don't know how you could have accepted the proposal to bring these three laws together in a single debate. It's out of your mind, but it seems that everything you say can't be said first and it's not about anyone, no one takes it seriously, decisions are made outside of this parliament, and that's obviously this procedure right now. I'll only talk about the Criminal Law because my colleagues will say more about the other laws. When we look at an explanation for the adoption of new amendments to Serbia's Criminal Law, we see that in all these four cases the same is, and the argument is the main -- that not enough is a harsh criminal policy. I could see that reviewing the existing situation in our legislative criminal policy requires far more serious access than one simple and flat-rate assessment that criminal policy is not strong enough. On the basis of which comparisons has our legislative and criminal policy been assessed as treasures? Just because we have a high crime rate or something else? Did the Ministry compare her to the crime rate in earlier years? Did the government compare it to the crime rate in European countries? It's not. Did the government compare it to the crime rate in the region? It's not. It all depends on the arches to which we measure. If it wants to take this problem seriously, the Government must carry out a comprehensive analysis of the criminal policy, both legislative and judicial, both with us and in the environment, and then, with that analysis and certain conclusions from it, carry out an evaluation of the criminal policy with us. Furthermore, on what grounds is it claimed that the cause of the increase in the number of crimes and the crime rate is insufficiently a harsh criminal policy for certain crimes? Maybe it's due to insufficiently effective police. Maybe that's what caused the inactivity, the inertness of the Justice Department. Maybe that's what's causing the unscheduled courts. Maybe it's because of the government and the crime. Maybe criminals had protection in the structures of government, and when we started arresting them, there seems to be a lot of crime in Serbia. In Serbia, about as much crime as before. By comparing our legislative and criminal policy with European role models and our closest environment, we will find that it is one of the strongest in Europe and that it is in Europe a leading position. Penalties in our Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and federal Criminal Law are extremely large, and in particular the maximum of crimes is high. A similar situation is also in German criminal law, which has been our role model for 150 years. Comparative research done in legislative and judicial criminal policies in European countries shows that countries with the most severe legislative and criminal policies have the easiest judicial policies and vice versa. For full consideration of the situation on our policy plan to combat crime, as well as the results it gives, you should be aware that the criminal right to the ultims is ratio - the last means, not the ultimate and final response to crime. Crime prevention policy as a legal policy is an upgrade of criminal law as legal dogmatics. They are in relation to the Lata de lege ferenda, in other words the criminal right is what it is and the policy of countering crime is what it should be. Criminal law is not qualified to provide an answer to its own efficiency. That's what crime prevention policy does. It answers whether criminal law is effective and to what extent. At the same time, it provides answers to how criminal law should be. One of the axioms of this legal policy is that criminal law is just one of the means of countering crime. A whole range of other measures, procedures, institutions and funds serve to combat crime. Criminal law is the last and worst. The reason is that prison is like the main sanction that follows for the culprit of the measure that gives bad results. The culprits get out of prison the same way they got into prison and no one can fix it or reform it in an artificial environment. That is why in the modern crime prevention policy, the emphasis is placed on all other means and measures to combat crime, not criminal law. When looking for a new role in criminal law on the crime prevention plan, then it is found in finding the so-called crime scene. A functional alternative to a prison sentence that needs to be extended by criminal law for a lifetime and re-designed. Working in the social interest, home prison, weekend prison, material compensation or voluntary reconciliation of perpetrators and victims are just some of the new sanctions used by advanced states in their crime prevention policies. Our country is, unfortunately, at this point and on this plan still halfway through the last century. Another of the axioms of this legal policy is that criminals are not afraid of punishment, but are afraid of being caught. Most often, a stricter criminal policy does not produce results in a crime-fighting plan. The results will be more effective than the police and the D.A.'s office. A few potential criminals count with a prescribed sentence when they engage in crime. What he's calculating is that he won't get caught. If, on the one hand, punishment and harsher and the potential criminals find out, it almost certainly won't distract them from their intentions. If, on the other hand, someone told them that they would be safely caught, it would distract them. This was seen in ancient Rome, and it came to us through Caesar Bekari and his work on 18th-century crimes and punishments. The next axiom of this legal policy is that it is better to act preventively than repressive. Sharper criminal policy is primarily repression, not prevention. It is applied when a crime is committed. We need a clear and consistent strategy on the preventive action plan when the crime has not yet taken place. It is better to spend the resources of the state in designing measures that discourage crime and which do not at all have to be within the scope of criminal law, rather than sharpen penalties. For example, to create an effective police force, independent of political influence, corruption and the mafia; it would be a better defense of crime than these penalties; to create an effective and courageous state prosecutor's office, independently, also independent of political influence. We also need a legal framework that will prevent and discourage crime. Laws that prevent a mixture of private and state interest should be passed. There can't be some minister of education and work at a private university and still give that private college licenses to work. Laws should be passed that prevent civil servants, elected and appointed persons from receiving any gifts. I won't remind you what gifts you received. The possibility of receiving free gifts brings our civil servants, elected and elected persons, to the temptation to be bribed. Prevention of this crime would be a ban on receiving gifts. If the government already wants repressive measures against crime, the government should engage in proposing some of the above-mentioned functional alternatives to prison sentences, not to throw all cards at tightening sentences. The modern policy of countering crime has long rejected harsher punishment as an effective measure. It will not lead to any improvement in the crime control plan. The criminal right is a branch of law which, as a rule, is slow to change, because the results of the changes in it are not quickly visible. In criminal law, there is no short term, only middle and long deadlines. Therefore, no change in criminal law can produce a result that is visible on a shorter period of time. That is why we argue, based on knowledge of science and crime prevention policies, that the proposed stricter legislative policy will not give more serious results. In any case, any changes to the criminal law plan must not be swift and above all must be systematic. Changes must be the result of a consistent, clearly arranged, precise policy of countering crime. Such a policy is developed on the basis of fully comprehensive and comprehensive research into the effects of existing solutions. Only such an examination of the state of play on the effectiveness of the existing criminal policy is similar to being the basis for proposing new, more efficient and better measures, overall measures, rather than just harsh penalties, for preventing crime, because it is better to prevent rather than cure, better to prevent it than punish it. In all of this, the euphoria of the government's representatives, which exaggerates the results of a police action called "Sabbe", gives statements in style that the crime in Serbia has been destroyed. Crime can never be contained. He can only stick to the threshold of tolerance. This is the only realistic and realistic goal of any serious crime-fighting policy. Any other expectations, even from the best crime prevention policy, let alone from the present, are just cheap daily-political and populist rejuvenation to the full mood of public opinion. It, consciously or unconsciously, is fueled by the current euphoric media campaign and utopian promises about Serbia without crime. As for the incriminating behaviour of commitments made by the signing of certain international contracts, they are in principle fine. The commitments taken must be respected. But did it go into detail, which international agreements are at stake, whether the state of our right has been seen, whether we have criminal acts or other forms of delicacies, which already incriminate certain behaviours as criminal acts, especially on the computer crime plan? Crime prevention policies of developed countries have long since shown that the suppression of so-called cyber crime, or computer crime, is only as effective as a mix of computer technology and rights. For its effective implementation, international co-operation is crucial. The limitations of criminal-legal access to combating computer crime, seen during the application of the crime control policy in developed countries, have led to the creation of two new approaches. The first focuses on technological decommissioning of computer crime, while the second focuses on moral and technological education of new computer users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31430	Before we continue the debate, I am obliged, in accordance with Article 28 and my obligation to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, to inform you that yesterday, MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, submitted an application for a press conference in the National Assembly building, with the theme "Information on the knowledge of the MPs", and that the conference was attended by MPs Dragan Jocic and Gjorge Mamula, as well as a person who is not a National MP, who is called Slavomir Bandur. This violates the Rules of Procedure in Article 173(2). I ask all the MPs, although so far there have been no such violations, to respect Article 173, because a press conference in the Assembly building can only be held by a National MP. So, so far, we haven't even had the president of the party to whom the parliamentary group belongs abuse the Assembly, and now we've had a situation for some NN face from the street to come here and in front of the National Assembly to address the public. In this regard, I received a statement from the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group, in which they strongly condemn it and in which they ask that, because of the insults committed to the MP and Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic, I give the strictest measures. Also, I received a report from the Administrative Board, which is also requested, and because of the infringements of Article 173(2) as well as Article 104(2) relating to the distance of MPs, because the moral integrity of the participants of the session has been violated, while Cedomir Jovanovic is a double participant in the session, both as a national MP and as prime minister. With this in mind, I have made the following decision, respecting both the parliamentary majority and the Administrative Committee, but while respecting the general interest, that it is a greater number of persons, these are three persons who should be given a measure of distance, and especially by respecting the request of MP Cedomir Jovanovic that these persons are not given the measure of distance: to the MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Jocic and Djordja Mamuli, on the basis of the infringements of Article 173(2) and second notice, due to the violation of the dignity of the Assembly and the dignity of the MP. We continue the debate according to the application for a word, and the People's MP came forward... You will have the Rules of Procedure, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has always advocated principled fighting for the rights of MPs belonging to the SRS group and we have tried to point out on several occasions that you should take care of what decisions this assembly makes, because each of you can be the subject of punishment, lustration, such as Tomislav Nikolic. Here, it's happened again now, but I didn't go out for it, which is probably why the DSS MPs will come out, and I wanted to advertise article 107, which says that if the president of the National Assembly can't hold order at the session regularly, it'll set a time-out needed to establish order. We were here to witness that the minister of justice went out for a pay phone wishing to present exposés on three draft laws and that he was unable to do so because the president of the National Assembly was unable to secure order in the O.R. If someone can't do the job they're doing, it's a moral act to resign. I call on her to do so this way, because she has also done a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 104, paragraph 2, and thus threatened the moral integrity of the justice minister who came to this parliament to talk about the bill's proposals, and how he could not, he left. We MPs have been in a similar situation on many occasions, but only because of our tenacity to speak, we speak to ourselves in a microphone, regardless of the conditions for work being impossible, and whoever needs to provide working conditions is absolutely incapable. So, I ask that, under Article 107 and Article 104(2), an express step away from the session of the President of the Assembly who is unable to lead the session and to protect the moral integrity of a member of the government who has come to parliament. Unless the president of the National Assembly does so himself, and I doubt she will do so, that she is aware of her role in this House, I ask that the Administrative Committee be made aware of whether Mr Vladan Batic's moral integrity, who was in this House today, has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31432	You're asking me to give myself a measure of distance, is that it? And because of the violation of article 107, which says, "If the president of the National Assembly cannot maintain order on a regular basis at the session, he will set a break in the time needed to establish order." Because I haven't set a break, and because I haven't established order and Article 104 of Article 2 because he's hurt, unfortunately, the situation is such that often the speakers can't address their fellow MPs, it happens to ministers, but here you see how well you listen to me now and how I can talk. It all depends, first of all, on your culture, you understand, and I can't be here or invited now, and it's a very difficult sizifian job in Serbia that in a short time you can raise the degree of culture of those who don't have it. Therefore, you have a duty to respect one another, to address one another with respect and, of course, there must be some attention so that you can listen to your colleagues. The Management Board, you've already asked, will give an answer to that. Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, please, and, of course, I'm sorry the minister left the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31433	Madam President, you should have said that without me warning you, that you were sorry that the minister left the session, not that the MP from the bench warned you; you laughed at the minister behind the back while he warned the MPs that it was necessary to establish order in parliament. But, please, when you address me, you have in mind the Article 100 that you are very often calling upon, I have in no way violated the dignity of the National Assembly here, nor have I been unpleasant to you, I have warned of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I do not see why the moral integrity of Cedomir Jovanovic is more important than the moral integrity of Justice Minister Vladan Batic. Please have the same arches here, and I think this is the best way to show how principled we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31434	First, I must tell you that, among other things, and it is not the first time, that you have told a lie, which is that you do not endanger dignity, and first of all, you, I often see how many times you throw away the speaker and all your MPs. Therefore, from now on, we will only apply the Rules of Procedure more sharply and everyone I see throws a speaker will get a warning, and I know that it will be the hardest for you in that case to refrain, since the most... Here, MP Petar Jojic received his first warning in the Rules of Procedure. Here's a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31435	I believe that the Administrative Board has injured the Rules of Procedure, in the light of the fact that Article 104 paragraph 2 states - the measure of distance from the session can be given to the MP and without measures previously stated, in the event of a physical attack, or another similar procedure that endangers the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session. Since it wasn't at the session, it was at the press conference, so, outside the session, it's absolutely...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31436	Well, does it say he should be at the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31437	It says, in session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31438	It doesn't say "session," it says, "participator"...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31439	... participants in the session, so no one whose moral integrity we could insult or hurt participated in a press conference. I do not see that there is a basis here, and I believe that the Administrative Board has made one political decision, not a business decision, and that you have also hurt the Rules of Procedure by giving us two warnings in a row, given that such authority does not exist in this Rules of Procedure, nor is there the authority to say that we are mildly punished because we have done something. We don't need anyone's blessing or anyone's desire or anything else to ease our punishment, we, as probably everyone else in this room, are aware (or should be aware) of political responsibility for what we do and are ready to take political and any other responsibility for what we do. That is why we are not running away from what we are doing and we are prepared for all the consequences that arise from this, but I believe that here the Rules of Procedure is injured by these two grounds and by this member, and also by the Administrative Committee and by the fact that you have given us a warning without it being in Article 102, which is why the reminder is said.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31440	It shall be in Article 102, paragraph 7. Second, you have wrongly referred to Article 104 as not saying that it must be in session; you have been in the building of the National Assembly, and I am the chairman of the National Assembly representing the National Assembly. Thirdly, it's my discretionary authority, so I can, and I don't have to impose a measure of distance or other penalties that I can impose on the Rules of Procedure. A word application, like the president of a parliamentary group or according to the Rules of Procedure? As president of the parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov, then MP Zarko Obradovic. First came the Messenger of the people, Dejan Michael, and you earlier, at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31441	I'm sorry the minister isn't here and we haven't heard the explanations of some laws that are really necessary in our legal order. It is the law on the prevention of riots on sports grounds, and responsibility for not entering the law earlier in the congregation procedure stands in this assembly, as the law came into congregation procedure somewhere early last year. If that law had been done, probably many of the situations we now have would have been pre-warned, we could have avoided a series of ruthless events, such as that clash between the police and the Rade fans, which had tragic consequences, and everything that's been going on in the last few days. When we talk about the Law on Organisation and the jurisdiction of state authorities in the prevention of organised crime, we have warned that these provisions are contrary to the Constitution, that they are contrary to international conventions and that simply this type of detention cannot be used. We said that these laws that you have passed during an emergency are nothing more than a confirmation or an extension of the state of emergency in one regular state, and that police detention or preventive detention of witnesses knows no rights. You cannot retain a person who is not a perpetrator of a crime, nor can you retain him by any international convention, or by deprive him of his freedom or by restricting him in another way of freedom of movement. This law was done, and we were then pointing out that it was deeply against all conventions and against the Constitution, because it did not stand in the Constitution. You've installed it, and now we're canceling it faster and better. It took a little more and a little more well-intentioned to listen to those criticisms then and to accept our suggestions. It's nice to see you, who are now proposing, and to the government who is proposing different laws, and who has so kindly defended and justified these laws, even persuaded us that these provisions that we have then obeyed are fully in accordance with the Constitution, and that they exist in other legislations. And now that we see that the Constitutional Court has put it out of force, that it doesn't exist anywhere, now they say, "Well, maybe it doesn't exist, but now it's a whole different story." That, in my opinion, is something that's very bad. It introduces legal uncertainty and destroys the credibility of the government itself of the Republic of Serbia, which is also bad and by passing such laws only further collapses. We then spoke of these provisions most well-intentionedly, and claimed that it was so impossible, as well as provisions that the complaint of detention was filed by the minister, not the court. The measure of restrictions on freedom of movement, along with that 48-hour police detention, can only be brought to court. Neither the minister nor the other competent authority can say that, but only the court can. And who gave us detention measures at the time after the emergency, according to the law that was put out of force, who said? Look who Minister Mihajlovic has authorized to sign anti-constitutional detention. See if it was signed by Minister Mihajlovic or anyone else. Look who knowingly violated the Constitution. Are we going to apply the provisions of the Lustration Act to them, whether all those who applied these things are going to lustrate them for what they did, for violating human rights at the time. What I see in this situation, when I see an amendment submitted by the MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Bogoljub Zečević, in particular, scares and harasses me, it is that he is again in his amendment, (I do not know whether it is in agreement with the minister of justice or has self-initiatively done) introduces a provision that exists in the law for the trial of war crimes; these same provisions exist in Article 14 and 15 of the Law on War Crimes. It was probably passed from that law here, where it is said that if it is not possible to secure witness presence or damage to the main search, their hearing can be conducted through a video conference link. It goes in the direction of what was done in The Hague, but in The Hague, too, it gave up. In The Hague, he seeks to make all the testimonies different. Simply, the theory of law says that the witness and the accused must look themselves in the eye, and that contact and that confrontation is very important. This is how you avoid it. I don't know, if there's a possibility in the law of war crimes, you can say it's going to exist there because you might need some raped Muslim or I don't know anyone else to testify here against some citizen of ours, so you can't come, and then you'll testify from Sarajevo, but there's no excuse here for a video conference to testify. Will your protected witnesses testify from Australia in these proceedings, or from somewhere else; what kind of state are we when we can't provide witnesses to come here? I don't think this is in agreement with international conventions either. The International Conventions only know the provisions of Article 15(2), which is to be heard by witnesses or damaged in the manner referred to in Article 1, may be carried out through international criminal legal aid. Only through international criminal legal aid can a witness hearing be conducted, and everything else comes down to bringing him to court, so we have this provision that doesn't exist anywhere, from which even the UN tribunal has given up. It turned out to be ineffective, and in The Hague the provisions were used only and exclusively to testify against war crimes indictees. Is there anyone here intending to mount the process, and that someone from Australia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic or Germany, where these protected witnesses were already moving, testifying to how they were doing here? This is about the state's weakness, that the state is unable to ensure the safety of every witness at all, is unable to guarantee bringing witnesses here. This provision speaks of the weakness of power, not of power and conviction that it can enforce these laws. Secondly, this provision does not know any international legislation. It was the only thing introduced by the alleged Hague tribunal, which he gave up on as ineffective. Even The Hague tribunal went one step further, so there was a video-bid testimony, they had the right and protected witnesses with those scrawny screens, so em was away from you, em was a smudged screen, and of course it was those who testified about violent crimes. We've got a witness set up. I don't think this is a good thing, especially when we're talking about the law of Serbia here, not about a law that will cover the territory of more states than a single state. I'm talking about the state having to provide all citizens with a fair trial, and that trial will only be fair if he can look himself in the eye. According to both Roman law and other acts that visual eye contact, between the accused and the witness, is something that is very important for criminal law, and that is why I believe that this amendment should not be accepted. My only concern is that he comes from a party from which he is a minister of justice, that it is not some agreement, that the amendment is proposed and that he enters the law at a small door, making the law totally unacceptable to the DSS. The second amendment, Article 15, says: "A reasoned proposal by the interested person may be decided by the court to protect the personal data of the witnesses or damaged persons". Here we are talking about the possibility that even if the prosecutor or the accused is prevented from knowing the personal information, that is, the name and name of the person who is charging him, the witness who is going to speak against him. We're introducing inquisition regulations here, where someone can accuse you of having a protected identity, so you don't know who it is or what it is, and you don't have the right to know it, and he's accusing you of the justice of God. This also doesn't know any laws. A similar solution exists in Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislation, but where the position of a protected witness is regulated by a special law. So in some other countries, the status of a protected witness is regulated by a special law. Here, through one provision, a protected witness is introduced, but this institute is not being elaborated. If the concept of a protected witness is already being introduced, or rather to tell the persons whose personal data will be protected, we come into a situation that he doesn't have to do anything, and that's why we think it's a good idea to go to this institute to sort out a special law that would regulate and who could know his identity, who couldn't, and how would guarantee his safety, to guarantee itself. It's a little bit better done in this war crimes trial law, but it's not there either, and we think this should be left for a special law, not this way. This law with these provisions is totally unacceptable, because it is again the opposite of both the Constitution and the international conventions. Let us not play, if this is an attitude, and do not again pass a law that will be repealed by the Constitutional Court, let us really pass a law that will allow one normal functioning of the state, a normal investigation, and that this country finally begins to deal with organised crime in one legal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31442	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31443	Dear fellow MPs, I think that events over the past half-hour are clearly showing the state of decomposition in which the state of Serbia is, unfortunately, and this assembly. We have seen in action, unfortunately, the application of double arches, i.e. not applying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, although, as the Administrative Committee has requested. I mention this because we had a situation for the resolution minister to leave the National Assembly and to deny the MPs the right to respond to this law, and I am talking about the first law because today we are discussing three laws; and whoever suggested that these three laws be discussed by one point of the agenda, or together, I could not hear any rational reason, and I would like the proposer to say so, here is fellow Mitrovica. I think we have been denied for the response of the Secretary-General, because what is proposed today in this law on the prevention of organised crime shows objectively in what state the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in. The government of the Republic of Serbia passed the law on 11 April. You remember how many MPs here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia said that the provisions now proposed to abolish the unconstitutional, contrary not only to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Charter of Civil and Minority Rights, but also to certain international conventions, the practice of the international court, etc. The rest of the government is deaf to all of that. Somewhere out there, in the transitional and final provisions, it has been said that after 90 days, the value of these provisions will be reconsidered. In the light of this law, the Proposer calls for these 90 days. So, 90 days have passed, 11 days have passed. April, 11 May, 11 June and 11 July. It would be fair if the promoter had the courage, as he did not, to tell this parliament and MPs what the real reason for the abolition of the provisions of this law is. At least to say, if he calls on those 90 days and examines practices, to tell us as a minister what was going on, so to give us the data, the law is applied, and it is, and it is. Not only are we MPs denied this, but the public will not be informed of this, which shows objectively one professional incorrection by the minister towards the MPs. The real reason why the abolition of these provisions of the law on organised crime is proposed is in the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which was adopted on June 5th, where the provisions of the law concerning detention were put out of force. More than once, SPS MPs, but also MPs from other opposition parties, have made it clear that no one can be detained without the court's decision. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear there, article 16 says -- a person suspected of committing a criminal offence may, on the basis of a decision by the competent court, be detained and detained in custody, only if necessary for the purpose of conducting a criminal procedure or the security of people. The court judges, only the court, and by the terms of this law, people could and were taken into custody without a court ruling. First, twice for 15 days, then twice for 30 days. It's not the end of this story. That might be the beginning of this story. The Constitutional Court's decision has shown how much, in fact, the Constitutional Court is working together with the executive authority. The Constitutional Court has chosen, to say, to make a decision only for this, but why the Constitutional Court has not taken a step further. He can't. He's subordinated to the executive. This decision shows it, because it's not a detention by this law, it's not. Detention has been initiated by V.D. The president of the Republic of Serbia with his order to introduce the state of emergency. The order to introduce an emergency in Article 2 is said to say -- a person who threatens the security of other citizens or the security of the Republic, the MUP can forcely bring and keep in official rooms for up to 30 days. There's been an inauguration of the state's right to bring people in without a court of law. Serbia's constitutional court does not have the courage to assess that provision, or that order, or whatever it is called, to assess it unconstitutional, as it is known what follows. The Constitutional Court dared and made a solution. My colleagues, who are far better understood than I am, have told me that the solution creates a condition that there can be no retroactiveness for those people who have been brought in, cannot now, based on this solution, seek their rights for everything they have suffered, and it has been found that there was no basis for closure. The Constitutional Court now has to make a special decision, in order to obtain legal basis, they can exercise their rights, i.e. to compensate for damages. We're discussing something that should have been a court case a long time ago. Just as the Constitutional Court has taken the right to interpret only certain provisions of the election of MPs and to give MPs a mandate, why, when they have already been so many experts, and it is known that this was done because of the DOS, which they have not declared the whole law unconstitutional, and they have taken one member, two points and two positions, not but. If the whole law is unconstitutional, it is known, the election follows, and DOS elections won't, because the election is afraid. That's another topic. It would be good for the minister to be here and explain to us how this is possible and what results are achieved on the basis of the application of this law. When it comes to detention, this member of the law has been detained for two years, it is clearly said that after the indictment is filed, detention may take the longest two years. You have seen the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia say that detention cannot last that long. Even so, it was said here - after the indictment was filed. What does that mean, after the prosecution? So, on the 59th day, before the 60 days run out, charges are filed, then two years in prison. That interpretation, that it doesn't affect witnesses, etc. within two years, the court must make a first-degree decision. Detention and two years of application are an essential example of what this democratic and transparent authority calls a democratic and transparent authority is doing contrary to international conventions on human rights and the freedoms of citizens and how it reaches for retrograde solutions. In fact, these solutions to long-term detention have been the practice of Eastern European countries. We really thought it belonged to the past. Here, apparently, the government resorts to all the measures that are in the role of maintaining the government, and thus to maintaining the government. I mean, about that, about detention, I wouldn't waste any more words, because there's no man to tell. The media won't pass it on, and the minister who should hear it is gone. Well, the man got angry and left; whether it's nice, the man got angry and left, and the MPs, it doesn't matter; and the President, she'll apply the Rules of Procedure as it suits DOS. Yes, V.D. the President of the State. When it comes to criminal law, amendments and additions to that law, I must say that there was no need at all to amend and supplement these provisions of the Criminal Law, because it was already regulated by the provisions of the basic criminal law, the subject of the execution, Article 69 and the property benefit, Article 84 to 87, which gave the possibility to judicial authorities that, depending on the gravity of the criminal offence and the threat of state interest, should impose measures on the confiscation of cases for the execution of criminal offences or the case committed by committing a criminal offence. Since we've managed to put everything in the same pot, so what happens, let me just say a few words about this third bill that we're discussing today. You heard before this first break the presentation of colleagues Radet Bajic and that very argument, which said this law is necessary, but not like this and in this way. Namely, we Socialists, members of the SPS, really do not dispute the need for adoption, nor do we dispute the reasons for the adoption of this law. We believe that here some of the provisions are absolutely controversial and the role of the state authorities given by this law. In fact, riots aren't just a matter of big sports events and they can't be dealt with objectively in this way. There are a small million sports competitions in the bar that are of great importance for sports organisations, where numerous riots occur. This law won't stop it. He's taking care of, obviously, only those big sports competitions and trying to put some order in there. (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes? ) No, I will leave it for tomorrow or, even better, I will leave it to my colleague Zoran Angelkovic, who will explain it further. I think it's a very bad, objective shame for the assembly that the minister doesn't have, to explain to us what can't be explained, but it would be good to hear how it sounds from his mouth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31444	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31445	Who's gone without it can be, and it looks like it has to be. It's very strange where that urge to combine incompatible things. Absolutely incompatible things are connected in this debate and this way practically devalues the debate, because these problems cannot be seen from all sides, to point out all aspects of solving and creating new problems. These are laws that create problems and far greater problems than those we have and which we have today. It is not necessary to spend much of the words, but just to remind you that two months ago, Mr Batic, as a representative of the government, we have warned here that these two laws, namely the one relating to the fight against organised crime and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, should not have been changed in that way, and in particular we have disputed the existence of a constitutional basis for the law on the fight against organised crime. Of course, when the government is exclusive, when the executive power commands the legislative authority, the government has tricked us, it has deceived the National Assembly, because it now turns out that the National Assembly is inconclusive. She was changing something about two months ago, and now what she was changing has to go away and, of course, Mr. Batic was quite well suited to hearing two whistles around half past five to leave this room and to save, it counts, his conscience from what he was cooking, mixed up. The man who advocated the reintroduction of the death penalty from this pay phone and in public appearances, although all of the international documents of the Council of Europe, and I must remind you of another university protocol, along with the International Pact on Civil and Political Freedoms, has also explicitly stated that it is going towards the death penalty being abolished, that man, who sought a renaissance of the death penalty, took the opportunity not to hear this today. He'll hear it over a stenogram and another way, but he knows it all well. So, we have a problem with this executive authority that provides us with bill proposals, and it defines how it will work and what it will do. Unfortunately, these improvisations are done in an area called the protection of human rights. These first two laws directly concern human rights, and I must remind you that the National Assembly adopted the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, and at that time we pointed out that everything Mr Batic did on behalf of the Government is contrary to what the dosmania had sworn before October 5th, after October 5th and during the crackdown of the SRJ. Of course, all this is possible if there is support from abroad. It's about the same as Slobodan Milosevic -- you're free to do it, so when it comes to an unsustainable point we're crowding you, throwing you away and saying we never talked to you, nor did we ask you to. You DOS need to know that you are now in this second phase of rejection by the international community, because carrots are gone, and the stick has extended. Let's get back to the law on fighting organized crime. First and foremost, there is no constitutional basis for such a law, but when you have already passed it and defined what the authorities are, then you could not in any way have incorporated the provisions on powers in that law, because all the powers of the state authorities, when it comes to the conduct of the state authority in some procedure, were regulated by the procedural provisions, so that our Code of Criminal Procedure contains absolutely all the provisions governing how this procedure is conducted and the pre-crisis, investigative and main investigations, until the verdicts and proceedings are handed down by appeal. It is likely that the promoter needed this efficiency at the border of respect for human rights and for these three months of emergency and from this pay phone two and a half months ago I warned you that fear and hatred are dangerous phenomena. I warned you that all of this would fall into the water and you know it yourself - of 10 and a few thousand incarcerated, it's said to be 2,000, but every day Iboyka and similar cases, like Iboyka, leave custody. There is no procedure, and they receive a special escort of jeeps and other security, so that Iboyka syndrome can be carried by many DOS members, because they are essentially no different from that woman. We've been trying to help the promoter with the amendments, to sort out this bill a little bit. In what sense should we take him down? To dress him up, to arrange him and make him look like something, to remind the DOS that the Code of Criminal Procedure was amended last October, because twenty-something provisions giving special rights and duties to the authorities, and that procedural rights, in terms of more effective fight against organised crime, have been built up. To remind those MPs who spoke before the New Year's Eve - we would be faster and better at fighting crime if radicals did not travel to the Federal Assembly to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure. What is in these special provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure? There is a more normal definition of what organised crime is, and therefore we have submitted an amendment requesting that Articles 2 and 3 be deleted from this bill of law, i.e. the law on bodies and competences. It's that member who could practically lead everything under organized crime. It is enough that there are three perpetrators and that it is an act for which the sentence of prison is prescribed for more than four years. Of course, that's not true, it's not good, it's not according to the Constitution, so I'd like to remind a little of what's in the Code of Criminal Procedure, what's organized crime. It's an acceptable definition of organized crime. It's said to be organized more than two faces. The organization exists for the purpose of committing serious crimes, and for the purpose of obtaining profit or power. How is it that organs recognize organized crime? It takes three of the following conditions to be fulfilled, which I'm going to count. The first condition is that each member has a role or a task. The second condition is that this group has been formed for a long time or indefinitely. The third condition is that they have rules of internal control and discipline and the result of this discipline is a serial offence. It's something that's recognizable to the court, to the D.A. and to the D.A.'s office. Only DOS is unrecognizable. The fourth condition is to cross national borders and get some international organised crime situation. The fifth condition is that violence, intimidation, or willingness to apply these methods arise as a way of committing crimes. The sixth condition is that it refers to economic or business structures, of which benefit. The seventh condition speaks of money laundering or the use of illegally acquired profits. The eighth condition is very important, and that would have to be understood by DOS people, because they could be recognized, if it were an influence on political power, the media, executive, judicial or other social and economic factors. In those provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, there are also some rules concerning informing the public about the fight against organised crime, so I would point out, if it is a pre-criminal procedure, then a written authorisation for providing that information to the public is given by a competent public prosecutor. For the past three months, and even today, we've been in a situation where data and some facts related to the stage of a pre-cover procedure in the fight against organised crime gives anyone from the government, and even those who have nothing to do with the government, even some anonymous bureaus and agencies, and even some parties, very relevant data, as if they're carrying out a pre-crisis procedure, as if they're dealing with ice. Furthermore, if it is at the stage of the investigation, in the case of organised crime, then the written authorisation shall be given by the investigating judge with the previous written consent of the competent prosecutor. We can read every day in every newspaper how the investigation is going, how far it's gone. Who do we hear that from? From Žarko Korač. What does he have to do with the criminal we don't know, we just heard the Rolex clock has to do with the crime. There are other ministers. Lecic is asking what anyone thought when he made a statement in the paper. Where does that lead? And what does that prove? (President: Are you using for the next 10 minutes? Well, I'll use it. Where does that lead? This leads only to one condition that all burning political, economic and social problems are resolved by illegal and illegal means. And what's the point of that? The goal is to provoke, to challenge, it's obvious that that stick is much longer, and the carrot is getting smaller and smaller. It's this DOS transmission, the transmission of someone else's wishes, a means of fulfilling foreign interests. You see for yourself, wherever there is the slightest conflict of interest between a state and an individual, a citizen comes out first, police, special forces, gendarmes, etc. And by the rule of disillusioned, revolted citizens. Take care. And a few months ago, I drew your attention to that. It's not me, it's just that I'm more professionally involved in these things. The fear, the hatred, the haste, of that defiance, and that is good, and you see for yourself that the government is shaking. It's hard to be in power, it's hard to hold power, it's hard to reconcile all interests in one country, and it's even harder to carry out other people's interests over its people. Remember, that's the hardest. I know because the Socialists have barely saved themselves, and you will never be saved (responsible to comment from the O.R.), not since 28 June of last year, nor since 15 May of this year, on your birthday you arrested a man... Are you giving him a warning or me?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31446	Please stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31447	Of course, of course...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31448	And I warn the MPs not to earn from the bench, and I warn you to stick to the topic of the agenda, to refrain from qualifications and to return to the content of the legal proposals that are...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31449	Mrs. Comic, just to warn you of objectivity. Mr. Petar Jojic received a warning only because he raised his hand, and the gentleman already had a monologue. I don't mind, I just wanted to draw your attention to the objectivity, impartiality and proper use of discretionary powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31450	I just gave a warning about the contents of your speech for the pay phone and the MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31451	Oh, I don't like some speeches either, to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31452	National Messenger, you are required, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to listen to the President, whom no one can interrupt, nor to throw to the People's Messenger except the President. The People's Messenger who speaks is obliged to listen to the chairman. I ask you both to respect this Rules of Procedure, because it's the only way this entire congregation will show self-respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31453	Thank you. Okay, let me point out some other things and some lack of this law on organised crime. There are some good provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure that enable this organized crime to be contained. Here, to remind you, there is a provision that, with the proper control of the investigative judge, the MUP gets the authority to send its own people who need to participate in all those organised crime cases and thus provide evidence of prosecution, not insinuations for prosecution through newspaper articles. Furthermore, it also enables the functioning of an undercover investigator. So the police put their man in the Surcin clan and find out everything, get the real evidence, and that's how they fight organized crime. It's something that, by the logic of things, belongs to measures and actions to contain organised crime. But, the special law, and these changes and additions that were made two months ago, and these changes that you're pushing today are only evidence of abuse of official authority, evidence of powerlessness. The power of this bill today and with these five or six laws still proves and says we are incompetent, we don't know what we want, we can't concentrate in space. A blank coke finds grains. This power is unable to find the grains. Because, you see, as soon as an organized crime is touched, someone comes out of DOS, the name, last name, last name, footage, witnesses, he's gone today, he's lost because he said something yesterday. Well, where does that go, people? We're talking about some provisions on detention. Apparently, last time we introduced the law as -- within 90 days, we'll review some of the provisions. Well, how can you do that in law? We'll prosecute the perpetrators, and then we'll question whether or not we'll pursue them. Because the other day said that Minister Mihajlovic -- no more organised crime? Well, what good is the law if there's no organized crime? I don't know if there's anyone out there who logically handles those statements from government members. In addition to the contradictions of each other, some statements give that have nothing to do with resolutions and thinking. In the future? Well, in the future, he won't be, as soon as DOS falls out of power, no more organized crime. As soon as you fall out of power there's no organized crime, we guarantee you, remember. But the bench started to roll. The existing Code of Criminal Procedure, colleague, has, you know, a provision that says that an investigative judge can grant a month's detention, a bigger one of that same court, (seeming Article 24 paragraph 6) can extend my detention for another two months, the Supreme Court may grant an extra three months, and within that time, charges should be filed; if a man is not charged, and if two more years of detention is filed. In that time, a first-degree ruling should be reached. If a first-degree sentence is reached within that time period, the detention may take another year to resolve the appeal, well, exceptionally, if it is lifted and re-trialed for another year, practically four and a half years, it is possible to detain. So what were we doing with that law last time? What did we bring in the provisions on some police custody? Well, of course it's illegal. Of course, everything the president of the National Assembly, acting as the performer of the Republic of Serbia, has made as a decision, prescribed by the order of some measure, all this is unconstitutional, but the Constitutional Court will not resolve it, will not decide. It'll have to be decided by someone else. It'll have to be someone else, because it's obvious that the new constitution hasn't even reached the preamble. As for the law, or proposal to amend the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, this is a real shame, what is changing. The last time, it was said here -- well, it's new crimes, we protect Microsoft, we protect the authors, we protect everything, and then the promoter remembered, after three months, that he forgot one step, and when he read the amendments, I'm very confidently telling you, he repented because he saw that all of this already existed in the existing law. A member of the 69th federal law, now of the Basic Law, says very nicely - items used or intended for the execution of a criminal offence or which have been committed by a criminal offence can be taken away if they are in possession of the perpetrator. The second point is that it can be done unless it is its property but a third party, but if the interests of general security require, the reasons for morality are decided by the judge; and the third position says the law can be required. Here's a tragic situation with our existing criminal law. Listen only to the titles of the crimes - if it is a crime of archaicism, there is no mandatory confiscation of the case. In the case of a criminal offence of production, collection and placing on the market of harmful products, it is mandatory to declare. If it's a trade, it must be taken away. In the case of illicit production, it is mandatory to withdraw. In the case of the production of harmful livestock treatment products, it shall not be taken away. I'm talking about a degree in the social value system and a social hazard, which is present in the existing law. Next, the illegal hunt is being taken away. Unlawful fishing, no mandatory confiscation under the law. Listen in particular to the next member, it's a member of our 228th Criminal Law that says: making and obtaining weapons and means intended for the execution of criminal acts, there is no mandatory measure of confiscation of the case. That's how consistent our proposer is. He says, "I use the authority of article 68 to change the Criminal Code, to install into some criminal acts mandatory confiscation, and for this act, no mandatory confiscation was foreseen." Why are we taking away some of the rights that exist with the judge when it comes to individualizing sanctions and criminal responsibility? There is no mandatory confiscation of the course of the murder, but it has not yet occurred in the case of a court case, but the judge has applied his authority from Article 69. Please, listen to what the Proposer says in his explanation, why he proposes to change the law; he says - to avoid the possibility that courts may not say such a thing. Well, what a mistrust and misrepresentation of people who deal with a judicial function! In some cases, I have shown a lack of respect for the one who proposes to amend the law, that in a serious crime involving the production of weapons, he did not use the authority to install mandatory confiscation of the case. These are the experts who, when the lamb is bowed down to them, grab the charlain and put it in the trunk. Please, it is high time that the National Assembly also warned this Government of the Republic of Serbia that it no longer humiliates us with such drafts of the law, because yet some speck of wit and a large amount of dignity has survived in this Serbia and we do not allow it to violate our dignity in this way. Another very important thing, it's about the last law. In this law on the fight against organised crime, there are some possibilities and there are special authorities to be singled out, because discipline in an organised group is necessary to carry out a criminal act. But with the law that you're predicting the prosecution of people who suspect they've committed crimes of war crimes, indiscipline can be the cause and cause of the creation of a man's crime and personal responsibility, which you don't need a special state organ. A few days ago, that court increased the fines imposed by the District Court in Prokuplje. Take care of that dignity. Dignity is the most important thing for a nation... (President: 20 minutes. That dignity depends on the law and depends on everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31454	The word has been given by MP Nebojsa Lekovic, followed by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31455	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have three legislative proposals on the agenda. I will refer to the bill on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events. I have with me the "Official Journal of SFRY" since 10 August 1990, in which the Law on ratification of the European Convention has been published,/ on violence and misbehaving of viewers at sports events, especially at football matches. With us, the name of the law has been changed, and the European Council has just wanted to apostrophe this at football matches, since most of the problems are happening at football games. Unfortunately, we've been having problems in basketball, handball and other games lately, so I have to say I'm very sorry that 12 years have passed to get this law on the agenda. Given that violence is a current social phenomenon, with broad consequences, whose causes are mostly out of sports, and that sport often serves as a stage for the display of violence, a large sports family with great hopes expects the adoption of laws on the prevention of violence and misbehaving at sports events. The passing of such a law has been imposed for years as a need followed by the absolute support of the entire sports public. The fact is that the level of violence and misbehavior at sports events in our country has been on the rise in recent years, and there have indeed been serious problems that need to be solved in several situations. The desire is for everyone to be a place where they will enjoy real sports competitions, fair-playing, true sports and human values, where visitors, from the youngest to the oldest, will be able to attend such events safely and safely. We are bound not only by the desire for a sports atmosphere and security at sports facilities, but also by a specific obligation, resulting from the Law on the ratification of the European Convention on Violence and the misbehaving of viewers at sports events, especially at football matches from August 1990. Just mentioning football matches in the title of the law indicates where the biggest problems are, not only with us, but also in other European countries. Some of the European countries, where problems were most pronounced, have achieved a great deal on this plan and have significantly reduced incidents and hooligan behaviour in stadiums. In principle, the entire sports organisation supports the adoption of this law, and to make the proposed text even better, in order to regulate the problem it deals with, I will make certain remarks and suggestions. The European Convention on Violence and Misbehavior from viewers at sports events, particularly at football matches, was signed by the state of Yugoslavia, whose legal successors are Serbia-Montenegro, so I am of the opinion that the state through the internal affairs authorities should also give more guarantees in this area. There is an impression that individual solutions in the bill transfer all responsibility to the organizers of sports events, to clubs and alliances, which is absolutely correct in certain segments, but in certain situations we also find inconclusive. Here, in the first row, thinks of solutions where the clubs through their recruiting directors should search viewers or distance them from the stadium, which is, take just the derby star-Partizan case, absolutely impossible. Secondly, the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events is adopted only for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in the most extensive competitions in which Serbian-Montenegro clubs participate, so that the regulation of a certain way of conduct only leads to different positions of clubs with two republics. The basis of each regular competition is the same conditions for all participants, which is defined by the proposition of competition and other accompanying regulations. The rules of Serbia-Montenegro's sports alliances uniformly regulate the federal level of the competition, which stems from the provisions of the statutes of Serbia-Montenegro's sports alliances. For these reasons, I believe that the competent authorities of the Republic of Montenegro should launch an initiative to regulate this matter in a similar way. I don't think that would be contrary to the basic principles of the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as the Law on its implementation, and given the fact that the internal affairs authorities of the two republics are working well on such issues. I, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have submitted a dozen amendments, trying to correct this text, i.e. to clarify more clearly the powers, on the one hand, the clubs, and on the other hand the Ministry of the Interior, because that is what the State has taken over, precisely this ratification of the European Convention. Please support the adoption of this law. I've seen a lot more good amendments, which certainly, for the most good reasons, need to fix this text. Thank you and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31456	The People's MP Milos Lukic has the word, followed by MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31457	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this brief discussion, I should present the position of the Assembly Club of the Soviets on three very different but also important issues. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, it is known that this deletes Article 15 which allows the official of the Anti-Organised Crime Service to prevent the potential perpetrator from being kept for up to 30 days. Then, Article 15g, which allows this to increase to another 30 days after the interior minister's decision, and, also, Article 15d, which has given authority to an investigative judge of the district court's special department, extends his detention by three months, on a proposal from the special prosecutor. During the adoption of such provisions of the law, the Soviet Union has also indicated that it has been exaggerated here to give authority to a special prosecutor, a special court, a special service to fight organised crime. Then, if you remember, we said that much greater powers had to be given to existing legal authorities, judicial authorities, prosecutors, etc. to those in those services who did their job with honor and quality. It has been shown that the introduction of these special authorities has also brought some confusion, so over the past few months there have been a lot of misunderstandings in the people, quite a wide range of people are not familiar with these provisions, and that has in some way introduced uncertainty among Serbian citizens. Also, Article 2 of these amendments and the addition of the law obliges the Court of Appeal to deliver a second-degree ruling within a certain period. We all here have to remind ourselves that the decision on the formation of appeals courts has been postponed, so that now, once again, we re-emerge this organ that hasn't actually been brought to life, and the question is whether, in some future period, or through some other change, the formation of appeals courts will be delayed. This raises a number of questions, and the first and basic question is what will result in the application of these regulations that are now being put out of force. There is little talk about it, but there will certainly be a lot of property requirements for those people who have been detained, and then released without any explanation and who will surely demand material and immaterial compensation from this country. It would be good if the minister were there to answer this question right away, because he probably has a better insight as far as it is and what is the situation in this part. As for the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, we consider the Serbian Unity Party to be a member of 69. The criminal law has already arranged this matter in some way and the question is how much it was necessary to sanction it in particular now, i.e. to provide for the confiscation of the case for the listed crimes, and this: from Article 111a - photographic, film and other recordings; then 183a - for copyright works; 186a - for computer data; 186b - for the introduction of a computer virus. It is also necessary to be cautious when it comes to the application of these rules, to wait for the justice of judgments sanctioned by these acts, and when all legal remedies are exhausted, then to approach the confiscation and destruction of these means of enforcement, and given the fact that this is not precisely defined here, so that even pre-judiciality may occur, which could certainly again have very unpopular consequences under the judicial system would continue to undermine the reputation of the judiciary. When it comes to the proposal to prevent violence and misbehave at sports events, we all agree that this law is necessary and that it was needed much earlier. Also, there's one remark here -- surely this law isn't all arranged in the best possible way. However, between this dilemma whether everything is arranged in the best possible way or the need to apply this law in the shortest possible time, we in the Soviet Union feel that it is necessary to pass such a law as soon as possible, that its application over time will show what needs to be complemented and what to take away. Also, a more detailed description of violence will continue to be explored, a description of misbehavior, then there will certainly be further details of preventive measures, with mandatory measures to prepare the sports and other manifestations that have been sanctioned here. Then, especially when it comes to measures at high-risk sports events, the SSJ has given one amendment proposing that the duration of the sports event be considered two hours before the start and two hours after the completion of the sports event that carries the increased risk. Of course this is a very clear situation. We know that, when it comes to these events, often four or five hours before these events begin, the viewers gather together by visiting fans and the possibility of outbreaks of incidents, or those of the works that are foreseen by this law, are actually time-consuming. Also, when it comes to criminal provisions, that is, when it comes to criminal acts of violence at sports events, we feel that this crime should still go to Criminal Law and always and in every place we repeat that criminal acts should be codified in Criminal Law, and that perhaps some part of the dispositive norms are found in other regulations, but not this part where sanctions are provided. Also, in this area where violations are intended, it should be put in the Law on Infringements, because it is a place for such sanctions. When it comes to commenting on the causes of violent and inappropriate behavior in sports events, we must remind ourselves that each of us wants to go to a sports event for relaxation, enjoyment, everyone with a desire to take a child, a wife and so on. We have to admit that in recent years, it's not at all feasible. Remember that big incident at the "Partizan" game, "Star", then this incident, or the "Rada" fan conflict with the police. You know, earlier years, the stadiums were full, that there were 100,000 viewers on the derbys, and yet there were not so many incidents. Something is happening in the people, something is quieting among these young people, some dissatisfaction is manifested by being aggressive during sports events and very openly clashing with the authorities of order, i.e. with the members of the MUP. So, you need to start with the reason why all this is happening. The reason for number one is that these young people, first of all, have no business, and if they were to work and acquire material goods, they would have a different relationship to material goods. He who creates something and makes something, he knows that he appreciates it. We generally have to admit that these are people who haven't even started their working century, and that it's very dangerous that this population is spreading and that there are more and more of them, and that they are increasingly openly coming into conflict with the representatives of this country. It's one of the fluids that we've seen very often from Western sports events, where we've had such clashes of fans. But there is still a much smaller population than the one that does something. We also believe that there was room here for another intervention, that it was not necessary to place all of this in sports events, because there are also other events and other gatherings that could have been covered by this law, such as concerts and other events, where there are also very painful scenes. In the hope that this law will bring little order and that we will go to sports events more safely, we of the Serbian Unity Party will probably support this law on sanctioning improper behaviour.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-18-0.u31458	This concludes the session in the afternoon and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours. According to applications for a word in the joint principled search, the first elected MP is Milovan Radovanovic, and after that, MP Golub Rajic. Thank you.
