ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25536	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. According to official records, 194 MPs attend. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. The quorum exists and we can continue to work. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Mirko Rosic, Rodoljub Sabic, Radmilo Misovic, Nebojsa Lekovic, Predrag Stojanovic and Slobodan Radulovic. The session was called by the president, vice-presidents, ministers and secretary of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement of Resistance, the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and teachers of the Serbian Section Kolubara and USAID to attend this session. I welcome the guests present. As more than 173 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Committee found that none of the Members of the People's Committee delivered in writing an objection to the minutes of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 27 January 2003. I am voting on the minutes of the January 27th 2003 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's First Extraordinary Session. For 132, no one with abstentions voted 60 out of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes from the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 January 2003. Reporting by the Rules of Procedure, please, is given by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the SSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25537	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at last session of the National Assembly, I asked the question of the legitimacy of this composition of the National Assembly, calling for the withdrawal of the mandate of individual political groups, the creation of phantom parliamentary groups, and then I said, and now, I will say, that this assembly does not correspond to the electoral will of Serbian citizens, which was expressed in the December 2000 elections. I then challenged Mr. Zivko Selakovic's mandate and called on Article 88(1). Law on the selection of Members of Parliament, Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, as well as the coalition agreement, paragraph 6. That's when you, Madam Chairman, said you were calling the Administrative Board within 24 hours. That's what article 73 says. The Rules of Procedure to which I refer, which is said: "The chair of the Committee shall convene a session of the Committee at the request of at least one third of the total number of members of the Committee, as well as at the request of the President of the National Assembly." Since you have made this request publicly, I ask the question - why is it not called the Administrative Committee? Everything seems to me to want to avoid this item of the agenda on that committee, in order to verify the mandates and such MPs who are not actually MPs and against the Constitution and the law, including the Rules of Procedure, are sitting in this Chamber. So I ask both you and the chairman of the Administrative Committee to tell the public of Serbia why he disobeyed your request; which is why he again disobeyed Article 73. The Rules of Procedure, and that's why we're sitting with MPs who aren't really. We need a decision from that committee because we want to address the Constitutional Court of Serbia in order to protect the rights of the Serbian Unity Party and our parliamentary group, which are regulated by Article 88. Law on the election of MPs, the Constitution of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. Please give an explanation to the public of Serbia, as well as to me, for the question - which is why the Administrative Committee is not called and why this assembly does not correspond to the electoral will of the Serbian citizens, which is expressed in the 2000 elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25538	Mr Pelevic, even though I asked the Assembly to hold a session of the Administrative Committee, and at your request, I would only add that I asked for it in writing, since I have verified that the session of the Administrative Committee has not been held. I will now give my word to the President of the Administrative Committee, Mr. Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25539	It is true that there was an objection to the application of the Rules of Procedure at the last session and that the Management Board had the mandate of the President of the Assembly to hold a session of the Administrative Board within 24 hours. After the vote, and before the deadline of 24 hours, there were not enough members of the Administrative Board, because they left the Assembly building, so an official note was made that it was not possible to hold a session without a quorum. A session of the Administrative Committee will be held today following objections from last session and possibly on other requirements decided by the Administrative Board in the regular procedure. For objections to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, there is a special procedure, which requires a committee to be held within 24 hours, but it also requires quorum. I hope we do it right today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25540	I would like to thank the President of the Committee. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, held on 27 January of this year, I challenged the regularity of the entire session, because people who were not at all MPs participated in it on any basis. Of the 86 signatures, nine signatures were from people who were not MPs. They resigned by their own free will. Their term of office ended on June 12, 2002, which was established at the Second Extraordinary Session at 10.40 p.m. on the minutes 01 No. 06-2/83-02 of 13 June. The president of the National Assembly responded to several of my insistences that the Administrative Committee would declare this. In accordance with Article 96(6), The Rules of Procedure - if, after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the President or representative of the Parliamentary Group remains in the statement that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, the President of the National Assembly shall call on the Administrative Board to decide within 24 hours on the existence or absence of a breach of the Rules of Procedure and on its decision to notify the National Assembly without fixing a break in the work of the National Assembly. We've never been notified of the position of the Administrative Board. Now we've heard there hasn't even been a session of the Administrative Board. So, you now have to realize, if anything, that the Administrative Board has hurt the Rules of Procedure. This must now be determined by voting, because if a body that is in charge of the Rules of Procedure to worry about compliance with the Rules of Procedure violates the Rules of Procedure, we are the second-degree instance, because it is the working body of the National Assembly. To inform you, Mrs Micic, today I have submitted to the Constitutional Court a play asking for the annulment of all decisions of the National Assembly since the entire course of the National Assembly was irregular both in terms of the appointment and in terms of maintenance, because in addition to these nine people who participated in the appointment, Radoslav Veseinovic, Jožef Kasa, Stevan Lilić and Zivica Predojjev, who are also not MPs. So, I now demand that the National Assembly, following the recognition of the President of the Administrative Board of Ristic, we, by vote, find that the Administrative Board has violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25542	People's MP, I've already given an explanation about this. So, in addition to the request for a session of the Administrative Committee, which I referred here, at the session of the Assembly, I also sent a written request to hold a session of the Administrative Committee. The chairman of the Administrative Board said the reason why it was not done and the session would be held, as Mr. President said. And on the other hand, of course it's your right to respond to institutions, not here to discuss, because we're not even competent to discuss mandates. He didn't break the Rules of Procedure because there's no quorum. There are situations that the session cannot be held because there is no quorum. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot be satisfied with Mr. Ristic's response, who is chairman of the Administrative Board, that there was no quorum. I'll give you proof. A member of the Serbian Unity Party, MP Petrovic Petar...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25544	Mr. Pelevic, there is no debate here on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure. We've got an explanation and please wait. We're getting a report from the board of directors today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25545	Madam Chairman, that explanation does not stand. A member of the Administrative Committee of the Serbian Unity Party, Petar Petrovic, has not been invited to the session at all. So, there was no desire for the session to be called. What Mr. Ristic is saying doesn't suit the truth. If Mr. Ristic took part as co-chair...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25546	Mr. Pelevic, please attend the session of the Administrative Board, because this is not a place, nor is there a possibility that we can discuss this here. So you'll be informed when it will be a session of the Administrative Board and you'll explain it at that session. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25547	Madam Chairman, it is quite clear to me that you want to avoid in this assembly the adoption of laws on the selection of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25548	I don't want him to avoid it, but we don't have the authority to discuss it, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25549	I'm not talking about mandates right now. I'm just talking about that if Mr. Ristic participated in the crackdown of Yugoslavia, he doesn't have to participate in breaking the National Assembly, which is completely illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25550	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25551	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 73, and Article 2. I'm a member of the Administrative Board, and I didn't get any invitation to the board of directors' session. The president's obligation was to convene the session, not to engage in phone consultations on whether members were present. We Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia have also advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure since we have also stolen five parliamentary mandates. We have asked for the Assembly to declare this, that the Administrative Committee should declare it. I have no doubt in the words of the President of the National Assembly, that she requested a session of the Administrative Committee, but the essence is that the President of the Administrative Board did not schedule that session, that he injured the Rules of Procedure and that it should be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25552	It's the same answer as the previous one. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25553	Mrs. Micic, you're in violation of Article 28 right now. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that the President of the National Assembly, among other things, is responsible for the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Since we don't participate in the work of those committees of yours, because you shut us down at the beginning, I don't know if the session was scheduled or not. We hear now that the session wasn't even scheduled. It's a new moment. However, even if it is, you can't say that the session was scheduled, and there was no quorum. They have to deal with the consequences. Can't the working body of the Assembly say - we couldn't... I'm going to The Hague. Don't worry about it. I've got The Hague waiting for you on May 29th, so you can see who's gonna have a better time. It's better in The Hague than on May 29th in your skin. Leave that question for another debate. We, as the National Assembly, must realize that one working body of the National Assembly did not comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, for this working body is counting on us for its work. The National Assembly has formed it and can now disband it because it does not respect the Rules of Procedure, and you take care of it and you have to take care of it. You also care about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's your primary task. You cannot now justify the Administrative Board, which has not acted on the Rules of Procedure, but you must show that you are prepared to carry out the relevant conventions. The first convention is that the National Assembly, since the body that does so on behalf of the National Assembly has not done so, finds that the Administrative Board violates the Rules of Procedure. For which reasons, they will be justified when the Administrative Board is here on the wallpaper, because the consequence of that finding must be at the next session one point on the agenda, the issue of breaking the Rules of Procedure by the Administrative Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25554	Mr. Seselj, I don't think there's any damage to Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure. So, I took care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly's working bodies by not only verbally asking MPs, who pointed out at the last session here to request an appointment of the Administrative Committee, but also by written request that the Administrative Committee meet, since I had previously checked that they did not have a session of the Administrative Committee. So, as much as I could. I think we could keep working. You have received information that a session of the Administrative Board will be held and why we should continue to waste time on this. A new breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25555	Now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure again. I didn't accuse you of being guilty of not having a session of the Administrative Board. You on your side, I guess, did everything you had to do. The Management Board has violated the Rules of Procedure. I now warn you not to violate the Rules of Procedure by putting yourself in the protection of the Administrative Board and justifying its lack of quorum. You here must protect the interests of the National Assembly, not the Administrative Committee, who is unable to do his job. That's the point. So, you've been answering to me for something that I haven't been asking you as a problem. It is not my objection to you that there was no session of the Administrative Committee, but it is my remark that you are now not allowing the National Assembly to find that the Administrative Board has violated the Rules of Procedure, when it is indisputable. It's been 24 hours and he hasn't informed us what he's done about it. So there is no man in this room who can say that the Administrative Board has not broken the Rules of Procedure. You're like...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25556	Mr. Seselj, I'm only asking you to name a member who says the lack of quorum is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25557	Breaking the Rules of Procedure is a dissatisfaction...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25558	So it makes it impossible to work, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25559	I can't imagine you really don't understand me. I think you guys are always making fun of me here. It's impossible that you don't understand me. You know, I was one of the most respected professors of law school, until your authority sent me away; there's never been a student who doesn't understand anything in my class. My halls were always full...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25560	You know, Mr. Seselj...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25561	I can't believe you don't understand me, like you're trying to figure out what I'm saying. That's my impression. Maybe I'm wrong. I really don't think you understand me. It's not that there was no quorum. That's their excuse. That's what they'll justify to us when there's a point of the agenda about them. I don't care why there wasn't a session of the Administrative Board. All I know is that the Rules of Procedure was violated by the fact that there was no session. Let them make excuses, whether they have failed or not; whether there was a quorum or not; who has come, and who has not come. That's what we'll do after we determine their responsibility based on the fact that they broke the Rules of Procedure. They may have expedient circumstances that will completely relieve them of guilt and responsibility. But we still need to see that. What is now indisputable, which is that the Administrative Board has violated the Rules of Procedure, because within 24 hours it has not met, because it has not informed us of its position in our advertising of the previous breach of the Rules of Procedure. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. I hope I've made myself clear to you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25562	According to the Rules of Procedure, again, MP dean mihajlov. No, it's the first time, but it's the tenth violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25563	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament are not regulated in this situation when the Administrative Committee is not in session because of the lack of quorum, I have a proposal that the chairman or president of the Assembly take a break from the Administrative Board and that we can then proceed uninterruptedly. Could you warn the MPs? [[Sagar.]] Since the party president told them that the home education they wear should be demonstrated here in the Assembly, and if this is how they demonstrate it, then the remarks of the president of their party refer to them as well; he said them at the last session, with a message to save it for his parents. So, unless the Administrative Board is in session, for which reasons, within the prescribed Rules of Procedure, so that the situation is not regulated, and the Assembly has the right and must be informed within 24 hours of whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken, I suggest that the breaks be given by the Administrative Board within half an hour and after we continue to work. This way, the congregation itself has been humiliated again, and we have not received an answer to the remark that we have made. We'll see if the Management Board adopts. Here, if it is found that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, it has an important impact on the further work of this congregation. That's why I think it's much less and much more painless to take a half-hour break for the Administrative Board to sit down and carry out the Assembly on this than if you and the entire Assembly were to violate the Rules of Procedure and bring us into one situation so that maybe all work could be illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25564	I appreciate the suggestion, but I'm not going to respect it because we've worked normally so far. I've given an explanation, and so has the chairman of the Administrative Board. It will be a session of the Administrative Board and you will receive a report. It's 11:45, I think it's illogical to take a break right now and get back together. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the post: I want to vote on my proposal. You want to vote on it? Yeah. ) I am putting to the vote the motion of MP Dejan Michael to set a time-out until the Management Board holds its session. For 100, against 92, the two abstentions, did not vote 10, a total of 204 MPs. I'd like to inform the Assembly that the proposal of the People's MP, Dean Michael, has not been passed. We can keep working. The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25565	Dear Mrs Micic, I remind you that last time I advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure regarding the formation of a new parliamentary group. Of course, then I didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, so I'm doing it now, although I'm late. Article 24 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have injured his third position, namely the spirit of the Rules of Procedure itself. I will read that third position, which says, "A delegation group of at least five members can, by association, also educate the MPs of political parties, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have fewer than five MPs." Now, of course, this means that in this House, a parliamentary group on this basis can form MPs of the Democratic Centre, because there are no five, there are four; they can send from the Peasant Party, or the Alliance of Vojvodina, because there are four; they can form MPs of the Vojvodina Reformist, because there are no five, there are four; as well as MPs of two other groups within the DOS, two political entities, which have one representative within the DOS. All others cannot form a parliamentary group for the simple reason that one party cannot have more parliamentary groups. If you can do that, you, ma'am, write it down in the Rules of Procedure, make it unequivocally clear to everyone. You'll see how many groups there will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25566	Mr. Cirkovic, the Management Board, as requested, will also discuss your remarks at the last session at 11.40 p.m. You may attend that session of the Administrative Board. According to the Rules of Procedure, the people's emissary, Dejan Michael. He will schedule a meeting of the Administrative Committee during today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25567	I would ask to receive a report on this vote, as there were 197 registered MPs before the vote, and after the 204 vote. It is evident that all MPs are not in the room, let's say Bosko Ristic, the chairman of the Administrative Board, was not in the hall during the vote, is not in the hall now. Here, I now announce, I'll take the ballot from the vote and if he votes, we'll have a corrosive delinquent, which is to say, whether the cards of those MPs who are not in the O.R. We'll determine if there were any abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25568	I ask the service to deliver a ballot from the vote to the People's Parliament of Dejan Michael. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, was convened at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been sent a request for the second extraordinary session, with the agenda set out in that request. In accordance with Article 80(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a period of seven days because of very important issues which are being regulated by the laws of the established agenda of this session and the need for the National Assembly to adopt them as soon as possible. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, the following Dn e n i d 1 was established. Proposal for a tobacco law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a concession law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law on employment and unemployment insurance, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE DUVAN LAW You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic; Aleksandar Vučić; Dragoljub Stamenković; Branislav Blažić, Miroljub Veljković, Slobodan Janjic, Dragan Colić, Veroljub Arsić, Goran Cvetanović, Natasa Jovanovic, Dragan Tomić, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran Nikolić and Vladimir Garčević; together Radojko Petrić and Rajko Baralić; together Bora Stanimirović, Živodarka Dacin, Rade Bajić and Miloš Nešović; together Dusan Cvetković, Ljuba Lazić, Milan Stanković, Joša Stanšević, Žalić Tošić, Žilić and Žilić Žalno Žalno Žalić, Žalno Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalno Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalno Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić. National MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic submitted an amendment to Article 28 on 4 February 2003. The bill, which is untimely because it was submitted after the deadline for submitting amendments. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Agriculture. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate, is five hours, and I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit statements for a word, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposal's representative, finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic want the word? He's not present. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? (The Committee on Agriculture, the Legislative Committee) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you are, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a strange law ahead of us. There are good provisions in it, and I have to say, and to commend, but there are troublemakers, there are bad ones and there are quite a lot of suspects. The problem of tobacco production and trade is the problem facing almost all the countries in the world. With regard to tobacco trade in our country, the biggest criminal affairs have taken place, and perhaps the biggest criminal accounts have a conflict of interest in illegal trade as their basis. Trade in tobacco is one of the biggest sources of income for each country. The Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Kingdom of Serbia had a monopoly on tobacco trade. Special kind of police, so-called. The financial guards or finances, as the people popularly called them, had their priority to prevent illegal trade in order to protect the state budget. There's real chaos in the tobacco market. I suppose someone who wrote this may have had a little bit of genuine intention to avoid the chaos in the future and to introduce order into the tobacco trade area. The law applies to both the product and the trade, however, here at the outset is precisely the establishment of a special state body to deal with this business. The establishment of a tobacco agency is projected. It's already a big mistake. The tobacco agency and the people who make it up will certainly be new monopolies in the area of production and tobacco trade. We know from experience that this is the basic consequence of these quasi-state bodies. We have great experience in the oil trade. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prohibits a monopoly in the field of oil trade, the government of the Republic of Serbia declared the monopoly by its regulation and instead of anyone being able to import oil -- but is obliged to pay customs and excise duties to the state, to pay taxes, quite normally -- it is a privilege of a very narrow group of people. Even in the government are formed clans dealing with oil production. One clan is Goran Novakovic, who was also the minister and this one, Vuk Hamovic; another clan appears in the form of Nebojja Covic, and Dusan Mihajlovic also sought some percentages there, so he throws in his Tahir Hasanovic. Similar clans will immediately appear in the tobacco area. We have a case with former monopoliest Stanko Subotic - Caneta Frog. We know of his advances with the people of the last regime, we know of his advance with the people of this regime. No one has tried these two and a half years of your authority to question his tobacco trade. There's no progress here until this situation is reconsidered, until you can see who the major merchants are, who the major smugglers are, where the biggest crime is, where the biggest extraprofits are. Stanko Subotic - Cane was not on the list of Djelic's extraprofitters at all. Djelic here cut off huge taxes from people who regularly received apartments, by the rules or by law, and Caneta-Zapca is nowhere to be found. A similar thing happened with Philip Cepter. He had a monopoly over importing cetice dishes. The dishes were sold to post office orders, they didn't go to this regular sale, they didn't pay customs, they didn't pay taxes, they didn't pay taxes. He won a fortune of $25 billion in 10-12 years. It's not just the cetern dish, it's his cover, it's more about the arms trade, but it doesn't matter today, because I guess we'll have that gun trade committee. I look forward to it, and it cannot be formed in the Federal Assembly. It's not over, I guess there's still going to be a session. Those who abolished the state said that another month could be done on the issue. You know, if I'm the chairman of that polling committee, Mr. Shandor, in a week I'm going to question everything and immediately book a thousand pages to publish. Therefore, this agency is a problematic body, but it is an even more problematic way of working it, through the implementation of a public tender for enterprises, i.e. entrepreneurs for obtaining a licence for the production of tobacco products. That tender works in a civilized world pretty well. There have been no conditions for the proper functioning of the tender competition, for example, when it comes to privatisation. What has been shown here - with us is the tender privatisation method to avoid competition, because whoever calls the tender, he controls the whole procedure and can tell whoever weighs in on the number of offers of people who have already applied. It is often done, you know that technology is now so perfected, I think that Dusan Mihajlović imports some of it, since he has now taken over even from Milet Dragic supplying police equipment, so now they shoot barbarians, break knives, they small, etc. The tender immediately establishes a monopoly. It's never happened with us in the tender privatisation process that someone can buy a company in a regular way. All those who applied for the tender had a connection with whoever conducted the tender privatisation. So you'll be here -- a tobacco production tender, so various companies, various manufacturers, entrepreneurs, etc. will come forward. Someone's going to want a factory in Novi Sad, someone in Chačka, someone here, someone over there, and the agency's going to blackmail. And now it will be - Velja Ilic can pick up a factory in Cačka if he is obedient to the government, and if he is not obedient, it is not the factory, he will be distracted, as it has been, for two or three years. Those in Novi Sad wanted the same thing, so they quickly withdrew, so that the main monopolies wouldn't jeopardize it. There's a much better solution to public bidding here. A nice auction is scheduled, so on the spot, who offers better conditions, but to avoid the other problem that arises in your auctions at privatisation, to bid, to win the bidding, and then to give up and only the advance he has paid will fail, and you, after a free contract at a much lower price, sell to someone quite third. We've had massive cases like this in the privatisation process. We will also experience such cases in this tendering process - who will have a monopoly on tobacco production. There's a better way. Why can't tobacco be produced by anyone who wants to? That is the key question Djelic would have to answer. Since technology has been perfected, there are small tobacco factories, tobacco processing factories and production of certain categories of cigarettes. Why can't 100 people in Serbia be involved in tobacco production and the government's job is to keep your employees at the gates of all these companies, so that no cigarette can miss them without paying their obligations to the state. It's only right, so whoever has high-quality cigarettes will succeed in the market, who manufactures the scissors, it will quickly fail on the market. Why are you running from that competition? Why is it that whenever something is most attractive, you want a monopoly, a monopoly on oil, a monopoly on cigarettes, etc., and I'm not talking about these illegal monopolies, which make the heads fall in Belgrade. Why didn't you do it? There are mini oils, there are mini brewers, mini cigarette factories, etc. Now it's no longer a problem, drying tobacco, cutting, packing, all the technological process is very easy to master. Why are you running away from it, it is a key question that Mr Djelic would have to answer. Why must there be special conditions here, stricter conditions than in the manufacture of drugs, why when tobacco is poison? Why didn't you make the tobacco propagation issue more specific here? All over the civilized world, propagating tobacco products is forbidden.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25570	People's MP, 10 minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25571	Well, I can do it for the next 10 minutes, so I'll free you of my presence, because I'm packing bags, so I'm a little busy. I'm packing my bags, and you're waiting for May 29th. Look what's happening to us right now, I can from experience, from practice, tell you what's wrong with this law. You now have "Fast" cigarettes, which are advertised on almost all televisions and no one in power has tried to ban it. What's their ad -- they're sold at a kiosk, and they're not printed, they're not newspapers, right? How can this commercial go, are we idiots so we don't understand what it is? How can that commercial go? You have to answer that question, Minister. The third key question - how can the Peccons import tobacco, import everything they need for these cigarettes, ready cigarettes, and here they just pack them, and that its status is as if cigarettes are produced here? How can he have that status, who participates in the division of extraprofits with Pecconi? Minister, answer that question. Why doesn't Peconi pay customs, excises, like all the other importers? (Zoran Angelkovic, from the O.R.: Who's Peconi? It's this "Fast" cigarette manufacturer, you know Angelkovic well, but you say something, you know it better than I do, than you shut up. I don't care who defends him, it's mine to attack, I'm the opposition. You must answer this question immediately. The whole public knows that Peconi's importing cigarettes, that he's packing them here, if he's packing them here at all, because if it's cheaper somewhere else, maybe he's packing them up. Why his cigarettes are the most competitive - because you gave him the greatest privileges. Why is he privileged, whom he owes you, is he also your legend, trust, finance, etc? What about this Pecconi, is Peconi the second Stanko Sobotic - Cane Frog? I hear Cane's nervous now, he's angry, and the Peccons are waving all over the place. Peconi now has more privileges than Cane Frog, and everyone's quiet. Not everyone's gonna shut up. That question will have to be answered urgently, because it's a major crime. It may be the biggest crime in Serbia right now. Furthermore, you here strengthen the additional state apparatus, strengthen the bureaucracy, prescribe "to tiny intestines" conditions for this, conditions for that, etc. General technological conditions and general health conditions must be prescribed here, as far as possible, when it comes to tobacco. If competition is created on our market, then much more will be motivated by domestic producers. In our country there are very good conditions for the production of tobacco in the Drina Valley, in Srem. I heard there were the best conditions, and those who tried had good offerings. But where their problem is -- their problem is when they have to realize their production, because they meet with monopolies, who blackmail them. If it's free production of tobacco products, then we can eliminate imports for a very short time. It would even be very justified to prohibit the import of cigarettes. If cigarettes are poison - they are. May I be prohibited as an import item - I can. No one in the world will object to us. If the mob's gonna push, that's another question, but then domestic entrepreneurs show up, foreign people show up. If it is prohibited to import cigarettes, domestic production with a foreign licence is not prohibited. Anything that can get through the market can be produced here, but only to eliminate the monopolies. If we can't convince all the people to stop smoking, then at least we can create conditions, if they poison themselves, if they kill themselves, that it pleases the mob, not the mob. The way things are now, only the Mafia can benefit. I don't know who's more useful now, Cane Frog or Peconi, I'm just gonna look into it, because I have to admit, I've been neglected by now. Cane Frog ran into me, I filed 15 lawsuits, I had to investigate everything now, all his biography, so I also neglected Philip Cepter, and Peconi, and many others, and this international Mercedes - Benz affair. Now I'm going to investigate all this, no more pardons. You can again file criminal charges for spreading false news, and Deputy Dusan Mihajlovic, Nenad Milic, has no idea that such a crime has long been abolished. There is no such crime, and they file criminal charges and publish through all the media. They can't face me in court, because I don't have any trials, what the state is after me on official duty. I've got Canet Frog and some more, but for this, they've been running away from Momira Gavrilović here, running away all the time. There's no false news. There's no such thing as a crime. There is a criminal offense to the public, provided there have been serious riots over the news that have upset the public. There are no serious riots in me, but only the people are getting more and more scribbled with their teeth, they know that information is correct, and because of that pinching of teeth, no one in the world has ever been convicted or convicted. Don't confuse the public with criminal charges and keep announcing them, hurry up, I've got 20 days left to end it all, to prove to you all who you are and who you are. As far as tobacco is concerned, it would be best if this law were not now passed, that the government would withdraw the law, that one group of experts be formed, not those interested and engaged in trade, but that they would fit themselves and their own interests in this legal text, but people who understand it, who would propose the text of the law appropriate to our situation, the text of a law that would help to curb smuggling, which would definitely prohibit any advertising of tobacco products, which would suppress the monopoly and that would give us the strongest blow to the mob. This text does not give the mob any punch, here only in mob circles but in advance knows who will be privileged by this law and who will no longer have legal opportunities to deal with crime. Because so far, we have always had two types of criminals: the main criminals who have been stretching power, regime, state and petty eggs, chickens, pickpockets on which Dusan Mihajlovic built his police statistics. We've had enough of these police statistics, because the Federal Assembly has come to meet you, you've been given a new Code of Criminal Procedure, now you have all the conditions, and you don't say anything about what you're doing. Come on, tell me more, let's go expose those killers; I keep telling you who they are, and you can't get rid of your police work and do it. What are they scaring you with or holding you in their hands? There's nothing you can do in the tobacco area until the Cane Frog, as the main Balkan king of the tobacco mafia, comes out before the national court, so it's also responsible for smuggling, for illegal monopoly, and especially for all the murders where it's involved. When a tobacco store is said to us, it's immediately thought of killing, it's thought of as a kalashnikov. The king's nicotines immediately take hands and solve their business problems, protect their business interests. Then why are you distracting us with this law, as you are now going to introduce order, as you have introduced order in the entire trade when it comes to oil. There is Goran Novakovic, he can do anything, Vuk Hamovic can do anything. Nebojsa Covic has blackmailed the government into giving him part of the cake. As the third, Dusan Mihajlovic appeared, he is now closer to Goran Novakovic and Vuk Hamovic, but is asking for at least 15% of his participation and for his man Tahir Hasanovic to spend Dusan Mihajlovic's participation. If you don't mind, just one question to ask you, Mrs. Comic, today there are representatives of the Resistance Movement again here today, session of the National Assembly, I don't mind, no radicals have ever minded, but since you're not ashamed that their delegation here is still invited to attend the National Assembly session, and you started arresting their activists because they print graphs on the construction site fence. At the time of that dictatorial Milosevic regime, people may have been detained for writing graphs on residential buildings, but for building fences, there was never one who wrote it. Instead of arresting tobacco mobsters, you are now bringing people in because you disagree with their message from the construction site fence. It is known that the fence of a construction site everywhere in the world is a basic space where graphites, beautiful posters are printed, it costs nothing and nobody bothers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25572	Since the president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Seselj, referred the question to me, then I owe the answer. So, just as well as I do as chairman of the Assembly, you know who arrests, who investigates, and who is obliged to present facts for the speaker and respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that we do not waste time and the National Assembly and MPs, I ask that in future appearances you too respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Minister of Government called for a word... You, according to the Rules of Procedure? National MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25573	Mr. Seselj mentioned me, so that it wouldn't remain unarranged and that it wouldn't be that I disagree with the fact that someone abuses the name "fast" and that you can't turn on any television stations, especially a few of these privileged in the country, without all the shows being "fast". Who allows all these months to be "fast" that way advertised; you know who's behind it: it's Peconi. Of course not, I've been attacked, so if someone doesn't interpret it differently, someone will think that I support it, that kind of advertising and that kind of privilege...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25574	People's MP, would you please inform the National Assembly of which the breach of the Rules of Procedure is at stake?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25575	Article 97(2)
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25576	Article 97? Please quote the injury and tell me what it's made of. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25577	On the line, of course, Mr. Seselj called me here after I threw it, so it can be interpreted as supporting "fast" advertising on television.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25578	People's MP, you're not looking for a replica, you're asking for the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. Please make up your mind. You have the right to seek both the replica and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have to decide, but you cannot ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and speak a replica; yet you know it as well as I do. Thank you. The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25579	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to apologize to everyone for being late, we have worked with the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. I would like to say a few introductory words about this law, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First, this law is interlocutor by nature itself and on this law, contrary to what we have heard so far, has been working for a very long time. All relevant factors in our industry were involved in the making of this complete law, notably our domestic producers, the tobacco industry Nis, there is also the tobacco industry Vranje, as well as all those who want to further edit this key industry. Also, of course, when we talk about tobacco, the first word that should come to mind is health. The latest statistics reaffirmed that our country, with Greece, is the most smoking country in Europe and that situation is not only not improving, it is getting worse. There are younger generations, unfortunately; in the next few days I will have additional data, but it is evident that women, who were less consummated by tobacco, are increasingly and more consumers of tobacco. It is poison, and I would agree with everyone from this pay phone who says so. Our country's long-term interest must be like any other country in the environment, which is to make tobacco consumption as small as possible in our country, that as few of our citizens as possible be tobacco consumption and thus reduce the number of tragedies that are happening in our families; because the consumption of tobacco means that in a huge number of cancer cases, that means, when you look at the level of the state, there is a big problem -- these are sick and high costs for the entire health system. Let's remember last year, one of the biggest and urgent problems because of the lack of investment in our health system, it was an emergency situation in oncology institutes, where we literally only had one correct apparatus and then it was just seeing how much these tragedies were actually. The government of the Republic of Serbia has provided funds, of course through a public tender, as well as the purchase of necessary appliances, so that what is due to this poison is treated now. The problem, however, is that we should solve this phenomenon in the very root, and the only way to do so is to reduce the consumption of tobacco in our country by a long time, and therefore this is a law for a shorter but longer term. We'll all agree that when it comes to the longer term, the accent has to be on the subject of tobacco, you have to think about health and all the ways to reduce the consumption of this poison. Of course, this law has not forgotten or bypassed it. In Article 4 of this Act, for the first time, a ban on selling cigarettes to minors is introduced and I know that someone will most likely try to make fun of it again, as was the case with accounts; however, such a provision exists in the laws of other countries that we have seen; it is important to know that minors are not allowed to buy cigarettes and that those who sell them must know that they are not allowed to do so. It is also prescribed much sharper, and I hope that we will have the effects on the ground very quickly, that the marking of the packs is done so that it even more clearly shows how harmful it is to consume tobacco, but it cannot exhaust this topic of health for a short time. This esteemed home is expected to propose a new advertising law, where a very important issue will be asked. It is - whether in Serbia to prohibit advertising cigarette stamps or not. It will be asked as a clear question - yes or no; and if it is - no, then the matter is clear and such solutions exist in many countries. If it is -- yes, in that case, of course, that area will have to be further arranged. I would agree with those speakers who have mentioned ads and penalties today for those who are very close to breaking the rules; in some ads we see that, contrary to the provisions of the law that exist, packs appear on the street and on some commercials on TV, so that further must be contained through this law. Of course, there is also the Law on Broadcasting, which further enables global advertising to be arranged on television. I would add there in the opening part when it comes to this subject - tobacco; poison; health; combating tobacco consumption in various ways; education; reducing advertising - means in all ways we have to try to get off this very invisible "leader position" of tobacco consumption in Europe. We are already the oldest people in Europe and if we are the people who consume tobacco the most, then it is certain that it will not help the younger generations, where unfortunately this harmful phenomenon is and how widespread, even more than in the older generations; so literally - if we want to strengthen the demographic survival of our people, then that is one key national issue that we have to deal with. However, for the sake of the eye, of course, if we ask our citizens today, and even when in public debate talk about tobacco, associations unfortunately do not go immediately to the poison, the necessity to lose this extremely bad habit, but associations are immediately heading towards smuggling, according to smuggled boots, according to organised crime, to corruption and to bribery. We have a very unfortunate legacy. I'll give you some information on how much has been done in the last two years to suppress smuggling, what has been done to further regulate this sector and to see how much this bill, if you vote it, will be an additional force and an additional weapon to fight these phenomena. Of course, when you have a situation where there was literally a bond at the very top of the state between those who smuggled and some state organisations, as we have seen some aspects and very harmful phenomena, so if you look at last year, almost 90% of the cases in southern Serbia, where there has been a crossover of the smuggling channel, in one way or another, then you see that some of our MUP members have been involved. So it's about cutting off all those relationships that existed in the 1990s. The devastating fact is that what happened a few years ago, and that's why I can't help being a little ironic, when I hear policymakers at the time, they're acting crazy today, like they weren't in power, and then 90% of foreign cigarettes were smuggled, and then the biggest mobsters were hanging out in this area and collecting big money. Literally, if we look at the situation in the last few months or the last two years, what can we say? In just one year (2001).), it has been legally decorated twice as many cigarettes as it has in the last five years. If we look at how much we are now collecting public revenue, ladies and gentlemen, in 2002, the budget of the Republic of Serbia made 15 billion dinars in terms of various public revenues concerning cigarettes - customs, sales taxes and excise duties. That's a lot more than it was in the last few years. Let's look at some of the other actions that were done on this plan: 920,000 boxing was seized last year, a million boxings were burned; as many as 80 people were arrested and about 20 smuggling channels were cut. Today, I want to publicly thank all the honorable people of the Market Inspectorate, the Financial Police, the MUP, the Customs, all those who participated, and thus show what the state can do when it is struggling to combat this phenomenon. If we look at the evidence, then they're the best in the last two years and they're saying a shift has been made. Of course, we also have public revenues that clearly show how much greater the procedure of what was previously in the gray zone is; look at the Danube Nish industry, however, at a slightly smaller amount, but there has been progress. In Vranj, too, great progress has been made. Last year, it was a record in the Nis tobacco industry, and for the first time in 15 years, they introduced a third shift. Last year, they were able to invest several dozen million euros in modern equipment and launch modern visions of hell. They were also able to buy record quantities of tobacco from our domestic producers; in one word, the tobacco industry Nis was never better in its history. It's not an accident. When you tighten and suppress the smuggling, the tobacco industry of Nis emerges, our domestic industry surfaces, and it is for the benefit of everyone, not just Nis, not only those who work in the chain of our domestic production, but for all our citizens, because it reduces the supply of this poison, and it is known where it comes from. It's good for our domestic production, not to mention the public revenues I've already talked about. And it's not just that. Last year, after those actions, the closure of the checkpoints and the cutting of various channels, we entered some system changes, like. the way in which excise stamps are issued. As many as 210 million excise stamps were returned, so we figured out how messy that system was being implemented before at the federal level, where the excise stamp was being issued with both a hand and a hat. Last year, illegal issued and counterfeit excise stamps amounting to 500,000 possible boxing were seized. It's all, of course, with what's been returned, which has been legally issued, returned to be burned and now everything is going as legally betrayed. Finally, we have a system that avoids suspicious intermediaries. We have a system where those who want to get excise stamps have to prove that they have at least a pre-contract or a contract with a legitimate manufacturer, one real cigarette factory, so they can even import. If it is imports into our country, then the manufacturer must provide evidence that the excise stamp has arrived, that it is glued, on which series, when and at which point the boot is expected to be placed for legal imports. There is, of course, customs duties and charges for all public duties. You can talk to anyone who wants to deal legally with this industry -- everyone will confirm that the smuggling situation is significantly contained in our country. If you look at the industry, for those who plan to invest in our country, we can say that the amount of total smuggled goods from the past 30-40% today fell to 10% or 15%, and the value of smuggled goods on our market from 60% to 30% fell to 25%. I don't want to hide that we still have problems; to list a few major problems that we have and what are systemic. First, which will confirm to you every honorary member of the Ministry of the Interior and the Tax Administration, who fights this evil every day, is that around 50% of all these channels cross Kosovo. Today, legal imports of cigarettes are possible in Kosovo, taxes are much lower, and even to this day they have not introduced excise stamps, despite our great efforts; I was in Pristina on 10 May with that message and there have been many promises made. Of course, we are making a lot of pressure to finally, because it is no great science, and in Kosovo it introduces an excise stamp, so it is known that the goods are imported into that market. Today it is possible to introduce and legally pay all taxes, which are six times less than in Serbia, and then transfer those cigarettes to the rest of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and without surprise the greatest pressure on smuggling comes right from there. Believe me, this is why harmonisation of the tax burden and further regulation of the market in Kosovo and Metohija are necessary. Hand to heart, something's done. The director of the tobacco factory in Gjilan and his deputy was arrested because one control there found that there were also smuggled cigarettes. The head of customs in Kosovo has been arrested and a large cigarette smuggler has been arrested, which is unfortunately released afterwards. So, something's going on, but there's a lot left to do, so it's not cancer wound. It's important that this progress is made, because no more, as customs say, wave smuggling -- go, go, go, go, but now we see when the channel is cut, it's through some mountain roads, it's through double bulkheads, it's in a way that shows that they no longer have that connection in organized services, as they used to have. Progress is here, but that's the problem. Another problem is Montenegro; harmonising our tax burden with Montenegro, which we must do and which is not easy. In the markets of Western Europe, due to their problems in public finances, England, France, Italy has further increased taxes, so there is interest and pressure for smuggling in those territories. That's why we need to co-operate with Interpol and with all the other customs services. Of course, today when you say tobacco, unfortunately, it's not about poison, it's about health, it's about smuggling, it's about crime. Great progress has been made and the best evidence is how much public income we could direct to health care. One dinar out of every pack goes to equip our hospitals and that's good. We have significantly higher incomes and our domestic industry has finally recovered. The best evidence for that is the great interest that exists in privatisation. No larger investor would want to enter our market if it wasn't largely arranged. But there's a lot left to do. I would like to say a few words about this law as well, and which is why, if the honourable MPs adopt it at this session, they will give an additional momentum for editing on this market and how we will succeed in further fighting these phenomena, such as smuggling and the risks of corruption in the country. This law has three objectives. The first is to encourage our domestic industry from agriculture to production. How? For the first time, it's regulated legally, if anyone wants to deal with the production of cigarettes, the minimum quantities they have to buy from our domestic manufacturer. There are some additional amendments, which we look kindly at, and I think that in the final version, when the vote comes, we will be able to further strengthen this incentive, because there have been several good ideas on the Committee on Agriculture itself. We have some producers in Piroth today who are insufferable because their production wasn't bought by the Nis tobacco industry. Hand to heart, today we have a very dominant position of the tobacco industry Nis in buying that tobacco, and they dictate to some extent the pace. We can say that the privatisation of the Nis, Vranja and the entry, under very strict conditions, of some other manufacturers on our market will raise enough demand for our tobacco and there will also be more competition between the cigarette manufacturers themselves, so our tobacco producers will also be in a better situation. So, first of all, the obligation to buy is legally introduced and in the final text of the law, I'm sure we'll have even stronger incentives to buy our tobacco. Let's take a look at the long-term. This industry employs between five hundred thousand and six thousand people. It's an industry that can hire a lot of people, but it's been in the last 20 years and how it fell. This smuggling of cigarettes and the collapse at one point in the tobacco industry alone led Nis to the fact that in that chain and tobacco producers get into big problems without talking about the problems we have because public finances did not regularly pay tobacco premiums. The last two years of those premiums have been going on time. As soon as the technical documentation is brought in, they get it. The first goal of this law is to encourage our agriculture, but not just agriculture, because you see that the whole philosophy of this law, not only because of domestic production, but also because of the fight against smuggling, is to produce as much in Serbia as possible. From there we have the opportunity, in a controlled way, to enter a number of foreign cigarette manufacturers in our country through privatisation and to grant a few permits for the production of cigarettes. This will make our tobacco producers - professionals will agree, that there will be no demagogy, variety and quality to improve - more and more to be involved in the production of cigarettes, not that the Nis tobacco industry today buys more outside than at home. In this way we will have a better effect on our foreign trade balance and exchange in this domain, because the tobacco industry today, unfortunately, because of the raw materials, because of the aroma, because of the machines, actually contributes to the debalancing of our external exchange. We must through this law, through the incentive of our domestic production and raw materials, make it possible for more to be produced with us, and many other things that will be done by this law should reduce the imbalances and that this brand leads less to deficits in our foreign trade. This is the first goal of this bill: to encourage domestic production from tobacco to cigarettes; that this is happening with us; to employ our capacities; to create jobs with us. There is a sign that, with the strengthening of the industry, it will be able, as the Croats have tried and had some success in the last two years on our market, to export and to make these cigarettes our cigarettes, perhaps some international brands, but our home brands to start branding on some markets, first in the environment, and then something further. And by the way, since I know there will be a story about it, if you really look at the fiscal policy that has been implemented in the last two years, the laws you voted exactly in April 2001 in the field of excise duty, today is a very clear effect. The specific excise duty and the three classes that existed, combined with the fight against smuggling, were both a significant momentum and a boost for our domestic producers, who have significantly increased their participation in the market at the heart of those who exported, including the tobacco industry from Croatia. That's good for us, and that first goal that fueled our tobacco industry in a broad sense is that real thing. The second goal, to be clear here, is to further regulate this industry. It was not by chance that one MP on the Committee today talked about something that was tobacco monopolies and that these monopolies existed for a long time in some highly developed countries, from Austria, through France, to Great Britain. You had monopolies, because this isn't just any product. He's strategic and there may be big profits in the case of smuggling. In any case, no monopolization is proposed here, nor is this law prescribing who is allowed and who is not allowed to deal with this activity. The only thing that's done here is to propose minimum conditions for professionalization and further cleaning of this industry. It goes from making raw tobacco all the way to retailing. That's not where we invented some amazing conditions. Believe me, working with industry professionals with environment colleagues, we've been trying to take over all the practices that have proved to be good. We are one of the few countries today where anyone can sell cigarettes anywhere, without any markings, without any committee, without any real sanctions in the event of smuggling. This law suggests that all those who want to deal with this industry must meet minimum technical and financial conditions. With dialogue with all those who want to clear this industry, we have come to these technical and financial conditions, which are also sharp, but also realistic and acceptable to those who want to deal with this industry fairly. I just have to say, this law has to be completed in one segment that we proposed to the federal level, because it was at that level when this proposal came to light. So we have import and transport, and we're going to suggest this time that, through real changes in the Foreign Trade Act and in customs law, this segment of imports and exports is complemented and that there are serious conditions for those who want to deal with imports and transport. Let's remember that transport that was scheduled to pass from Bulgaria to Hungary, reportedly carried croissants, and it was one big attempt to smuggle cigarettes. That's where we need to take things extra seriously. This concerns the conditions of those who want to deal with tobacco processing, cigarette production, wholesale and retail trade. These conditions are harsh, but realistic for our terms. They will allow us to have only those on this market who want to be on the long-term and in a fair way to participate in this industry; none of the phantom firms, no suspicious intermediaries, who want to deprive the tax and disappear through several operations. I just want to give an example here, and that's something that's certainly going to be one of the most visible things, one of the reasons... From the O.R., you see, Minister. I'll confiscate that for you in a few seconds. We have technical and financial conditions to obtain approval for the construction and manufacture of a cigarette factory. Of course, not to be dim, Nis and Vranje will get the right to produce cigarettes, of course. If you look at technical and industrial conditions, you can clearly see that this law suggests that only those who meet the conditions, which are about the gauge of a tobacco industry, Vranje, receive the right to produce cigarettes. This means that only those who want to have about five to ten percent of the market, which means marketing, that means a lot of investment in distribution, will want to get into this game, meet the conditions and build one cigarette factory. Why in no way should we allow what happened in Romania and Macedonia; no conditions, and then small cigarette factories that do nothing like mushrooms; after we had, we learned in dialogue with our colleagues from those countries, huge problems to control it. Unfortunately, there are so many of them. They have the same problems in establishing a rule of law, as we do today in those inspection services, and we're going to have to do a lot of work on it. Some of these factories, unfortunately, are just a front for repacking these cigarettes and are actually possible participants in the legalization of smuggling. We can't let that happen. We have to have cigarette manufacturers on our market who are here on a long-term basis, who have something to lose, who want to develop brands on our market and who will be really part of our tobacco industry, part of our public finances; in the end, part of Serbia's economic life itself. That's why we have such strict conditions, and that way we'll only have a smaller number, we don't know how much, because that's the level of production, and we'll see how many of these licenses are going to be, and I mean just a few. There won't be many who will be willing to invest so much. As you can see, the government doesn't determine whether it's going to be 5, 6, 7, it's on the market and on the very economic interest to determine. So the second element, and the first goal of this law, is to encourage our industry in a broad sense. The second objective of this law is to professionalise and establish very strict conditions for participation in this industry, but without monopolization and without a decision that would be administrative and bureaucratic, to give to this or that. The third goal, the last thing before the conclusion, is to establish in this law a way of deciding what will in one way or another cause great public interest. If you look at the proposal to form a tobacco agency, of course it's not there to bureaucratize, of course it's not there to share the privileges of these or those. On the contrary, look at how she is conjectured. Her work and the board of directors include all resolutions that in one way or another can be affected by smuggling and which want to establish order on this market - from the MUP, Customs, Tax Administration, Ministry of Finance and Economy, to trade; but also the state must have a majority; the participation of representatives of the industry itself is envisaged. That's how the board of directors and the decision-making will be in front of the public. All decisions of this agency will be made to the public, not only because we have industry participants for those big decisions that have to go through the board of directors, but which will have to be declared by the government and thus extends the spectrum of participants of the imminent collective governments that we will have in the next few years in our country. That's extra control for what's going on here. Not only that, we will accept an amendment proposing not at least once, but twice a year to report this esteemed home on what was the work, impact and decision of both the agency and the government in this domain. So that's how it's done because everything that's decided in the tobacco and cigarettes domain, whoever's in power, will be in the eyes of our citizens suspiciously. In this way very powerful reflectors are directed through an inter-resorial decision, plus industry participants, so the government and afterwards through information to this home. All participants in decisions concerning licensing and traffic control know that they will eventually have to respond, and how directly, to the court of the public and to this home. That is why the institution's proposal is here to strengthen transparency, to strengthen co-ordination, not to be decided in one cabinet, but to make all important decisions in this industry public and that everyone who makes them knows that they will have to answer to the public court for everything they've decided. It is an additional guarantee that this law, if you vote it, will be an additional momentum, an additional weapon to work together on this road that has already given a lot, gave 15 billion dinars to our budget last year, and that was only a few billion one to three years ago. He gave crackdown on the mafia, cut off many smuggling channels, gave recovery to a key industry in southern Serbia, Nis, Vranj, and that is also important. This road allows permanent interesting ways to come here and build cigarette factories only those who want to stay here long enough to build stamps. In such a way that we have, not only those who will be strategic partners of the tobacco industry Nis and Vranje, but also those who will come to the market, objective allies for further fight against smuggling and then we will shoot them directly. I start with potential strategic partners, down to the Nis or Vranje tobacco industry union, I can say that an entire industry expects you to adopt this law. This law will allow us not only to further edit one strategic and so far problematic industry, but to revive an important segment of our economy that will be able to contribute to growth; then, to reduce the imbalance in our external trade; to open, according to some estimates, several thousand additional jobs. A law like this can make it possible. In smart politics, suppressing and reducing tobacco consumption as poison, it's the right thing to do in the longer term. Meanwhile, while this long-term process is being implemented, we are making it possible for the manufacturing sector to develop properly. For critics, let's see what that effect has been in the last 10 years, let's see what the facts are today, and we'll see that it's no accident that many delegations from the region are coming today to see what Serbia has done correctly for the last two years to arrange this industry, why so much interest in our tobacco industry and what our inspection services are doing, finally very well, in the last two years. I conclude; I really thank from my heart thousands of people who fight smugglers every day on the ground and make public revenues and a regulated industry possible. I urge you to vote for this law and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25580	The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25581	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, listening carefully to Minister Djelic and his presentation, was behind the pay phone because Minister Djelic wants to say that this law stops cigarette smuggling. However, this law does not stop the smuggling of cigarettes, but closes the retailing of those people who feed the family and those people who somehow live on this. Smuggling stops at the border, Mr. Minister, and you've introduced stamps that stick to each box. Mr. Minister, you've also introduced fiscal cash registers, so the inspection is waiting outside the store. When a buyer comes out, he has to show the bill. It says in that account that he bought a box of malboros. So the smuggling can't be stopped this way, but the law that already exists can stop it. But what does the Serbian Government want with this law? The Serbian government wants to take a monopoly over cigarettes and that only a few people in Serbia can get a license to sell cigarettes on a large scale. When it comes to these conditions that the minister says are very favourable, these conditions cannot be met by anyone in retail. First of all, what Mr. Minister said, he boasts that they burned a large amount of cigarettes. Those cigarettes weren't contagious, Mr. Minister. We didn't see that there was a report from some lab that those cigarettes weren't right. Those cigarettes were supposed to be given to the military, to give to people who were socially endangered or sold, since it's a agricultural product, so you could pay off their leftover agricultural pensions, Mr. Minister, not burn. The question arises whether the amount that appears in your report is really on fire. As far as the terms of this law are concerned, the agency is opening up. As far as the agency in Serbia is open, no one knows how to tell us. The agency is said to report to the government on its work once a year, and the Serbian government reports to the National Assembly once a year. Well, it's a demagogy. When has the Serbian government filed a report on its work in the past two years? Says the minister that we are another country in Europe by the number of smokers. Well, we were the 15th country in Europe in 1999, Mr. Minister, but since the DOS came to power, those who stopped smoking and started smoking those who never smoked, and you're going to start smoking very soon because you're going to have to, Mr. Minister. When you're chased by the people of Serbia, you'll have a big problem. Mr. Secretary couldn't explain to us that this law is good. Also, a government report is being mentioned. We from the Soviet Union and the citizens of Serbia, and probably all MPs, expected the government to come to this assembly to tell us why it is being striked in Bor, why is 10,000 people on the street, why are the workers in Kragujevac not met? You could sell those cigarettes and settle those obligations you had towards the Kragujevac workers. A resignation has been announced for a large number of factory workers, from the large giants of Serbia. Also, there's no government to explain to us what these people are going to do. Mr. Minister, you promised that small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia would open up every week. Small and medium-sized enterprises are these small retail sales that you stop by this law, where families are employed: three workers, four, six etc. I'll say what's stopping the retail: you and your law, so not only can people, not just new people who want to shop, but also those who did trade and had cigarettes as an article in their store, work. When it comes to wholesalers, it must have a storage space to accommodate 30 tons of cigarettes. Watch out, big store! So far, people with 1,000 items have had cigarettes. Now that someone who already has a big store has to open up some new store space, make some halls, etc., and it is very well known that there is no loan in Serbia and that people can't do it on their own. Also, Mr. Minister, you're proposing in Article 28 that none of the retailers, or wholesalers, can get permission if he's been fined for selling cigarettes in the last three years. They're those poor people who lost their jobs, who sold cigarettes on cardboard boxes on fleas and colorful markets. Mr. Minister, you promised these people you'd get them back to work. Not only did you not bring them back to work, but now you're stopping their source of income from feeding their family. Each other was deprived of some cigarettes on those boxes, and maybe every other dealer, to call him that, who fed his family, paid a fine. So they can't get permission to have cigarettes in their store, besides 500 items. As far as I'm aware, when it comes out, if a person is convicted, it's only taken out if you're asking for a gun license or if you're applying to get a job in the MUP, in the military and in the inspection. You can't ask those who want to open those shops right now. Furthermore, you've predicted a special transport vehicle. Look, in one big-sale store, the owner of a retail store came in and said, "Give me 100 kilos of flour, 100 kilos of rice, 10 crates of acid water, and 200 boxes of cigarettes." Well, I can't use the same vehicle to drive cigarettes. That's what you say in your article 28, Mr. Secretary. So, a special vehicle has to come, or two vehicles, to come to the storehouse of wholesale sales so they can lift the goods they wanted. Then, by this law, you predict that trafics must also have wet knots because they are required to meet the hygiene conditions. Those of you who have trafics will have to build a toilet, since hygiene conditions are necessary for the sale of cigarettes. That's what Mr. Minister says. That's what article 28 says. Mr. Minister, you're saying that whoever wants to do the big cigarette trade has to pay 30 million dinars as a deposit to the People's Bank. You think that's how you show that inflow at the National Bank, how the National Bank has so many deposits in this month, in that month, so much so. Where did an entrepreneur, who'd been doing trade so far and had cigarettes in his warehouse, have a million marks to keep that article in his warehouse and to deal with it? Where did a million marks come from? But there will be several people, those who have worked for you so far. But, of course, this law does not stimulate people who have lost their jobs and those who currently have large and small stores, so that they can continue to carry out this work. This law is very rigorous and very harmful. Furthermore, five million dinars go as revenue to the budget. So now that I've got a big sale, I've already got cigarettes in the wholesale, and I have to pay five million dinars. Where did I get five million dinars? I also don't know how you're going to explain it to people who do this job. Mr. Minister, this law is very harmful to the current wholesalers, those who are engaged in this business and those who need to form a new small and medium-sized enterprise. Why are we voting against this law? First, because you introduced a member, for example. That I can't have minors buying cigarettes at the store; and now, send a father of a son, who is 17 years old, to buy him cigarettes, and the seller says, "Can't, give a card or a health book." All right, for children up to 14 years old, but children at age 17 are already young, so you need to accept the amendment given by the Soviets.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25582	People's messenger, 10th minute; do you want another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25583	Here, I'll finish now. Next, the license can't be given to those who lost their jobs, Mr. Minister, and they want to open some store, and besides the other items, they have cigarettes in their store, because they have to pay off enormous figures. There are high penalties when it comes to wholesalers and retailers, even up to 400,000 dinars. So come out and tell me how many boxing cigarettes it takes to sell to make 400,000 dinars, Mr. Minister. Well, Mr. Minister, it's not the budget that's being charged with punishment, it's the production. All the time you've come to power, you're just looking to punish the people to stop doing what they did, and that's how you fill the budget. Next, Mr. Minister, we're not voting for this bill because each of the merchants has to buy a special vehicle to transport cigarettes, because five million dinars go into the budget, they're not going back to the dealer because 30 million dinars are depositing with the National Bank. That is why the Soviet Union will not vote in favour of this bill and we expect MPs in this assembly to vote against this law. This law is harmful, it's not stimulating, it doesn't bring new jobs, it stops and shuts down the lives of those people who have lost their jobs and those people who are going to lose their jobs these days, Mr. Minister, because of your policies that you're running. I advise you, visit a little Kragujevac, go to Bor, visit these agricultural producers, Mr. Minister, who protest for sugar tail, which is not paid; I bring you a message from Povorec to Kruševac, a message from the agricultural producers of sugar beet, that they will block your highway within 20 days unless you settle the obligation for unpaid and handed over to the sugar beet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25584	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25585	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, appreciateing that the minister is right when he says this law is very important for Serbia, for Serbia's economy, we cannot without saying that it falls under very serious system laws. Considering that the minister is right, although not always, I can ask and I have to ask the question - why is the law in the procedure of June last year only now on the agenda, and at an extraordinary session; why has two years been waiting to discuss this law; why has the government passed regulations that treat the transport of cigarettes i.e. excise products through Serbia; why is the survey board not formed to determine how many smuggled tobacco and everything else; and who smuggles tobacco in Serbia? Why -- since there's a lot of shouting: it's what the former did, it's what the current one does, Mr. Seselj says for Cane, for Cepter's sake, doing this, doing that -- there's no polling committee to determine if this area is so important? Why is this issue being raised right now by a minister whose jurisdiction this is not? This is in the power of the Minister of Agriculture, not in the power of the Minister of Finance. And this may reveal our true intentions, which is that this law is financial-economic, and it does not contain the elements of agriculture. In essence, this law had to be a law that regulates agricultural activity and economy, not economics and finance. This is where we may come, although the law is acceptable and not bad, we will also talk about the real intention of speeding up the privatisation process of these companies. And in order to do that, it must first of all be passed the tobacco law, to see who the producers are, so that those already described as buying our factories know that these factories will produce. Whether Philip Morris is typed for DIN or someone else we'll see, but we can already convert who's going to buy which factory and who's going to do what, so we're going to discuss it, and we're going to see who's right and why this is happening. Why go to privatisation this year - because the budget simply doesn't have the money and it doesn't charge. If the factories are sold for a few hundred million dollars, it is one good injection, since all the money will go into the budget, and that the citizens of Nis, Vranja and other cities will remain short-sleeved. We'll sell the factories to someone, spend that money. (Milka Marinkovic's domination from the scene. ) Madam Chairman, I would like to ask you to remind Mrs Milka, given that she is constantly throwing and interrupting and thus violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25586	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive and not to interfere with the speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25587	So, the intention is to sell these factories, so it's going faster into the lawmaking process, and this year it will be privatised to exactly typed companies, deposited this year into the budget, and spent that money. Because there will certainly be elections in the fall of this year, so that money will be spent buying social peace, in the same way as their predecessors did; good students will do it now. And then something that's been created for generations, which has hired between 500,000 and 600,000 people, as Mr Djelic says, to sell out in one move and to stay short-sleeved again. This law, as a tobacco law, does not treat the privatisation of these companies, but treats the tobacco market. It had to be the work of the agriculture minister, because to a good extent this law must have development segments for agriculture. There I would disagree with Minister Djelic: this law does not have any development elements for agriculture at all; seed production is not treated, most generally spoken of; tobacco institutes, tobacco seeds institutes are not foreseen; nothing is absolutely treated by this law. Small amounts of tobacco that must be purchased by those who will be licensed to produce tobacco are absolutely insufficient. It's better than an existing solution, which is bad, but one serious law on sea tobacco in another, a systematic way to regulate the area of production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products, has to regulate this area in a different way. This law is partial, it does not solve the problem of tobacco smuggling, which, in our opinion, is key and greatest in the last three years. The biggest one was late last and early this year. Why is there no record of how much and how much the budget has been filled, that at one point there has been some kind of cutting off the tobacco channel, those who may have been tied to, as someone here says, the old government, but continued with many other channels? That's why there was a decrease in tobacco smuggling at one point, until the new channels were restored, and until it started again with some paved routes. We had a lot of arguments against the 2001 government regulation, and therefore we asked for the establishment of a survey committee in September 2001, which would look at the situation on the tobacco market, means production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products, with the aim of seeing how much tobacco was smuggled. But in this assembly, it was not accepted by the parliamentary majority of DOS, the rest of the DOS. A partial solution to this problem brings us nothing. It only allows us to sell out, privatise these factories, not stop smuggling and illegal trade in tobacco and tobacco products in Serbia. When we say that this is a partial solution, we have in mind the state of our customs duties. It is said that in Macedonia, in Kosovo, I don't know where everyone, is replaced at customs by those who were in the tobacco and tobacco smuggling chain; and if you have on one side in customs those who participate in the smuggling of tobacco and tobacco products, then there must be them on the other. Why no one in our Customs has been removed, why no one has been called to account, why this has never been discussed publicly, why there is no transparency in this very important area, which we have heard almost 10% of the funds are full of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's roughly, somewhere between 8 and 10%, maybe this year it'll be 10%. Why didn't all these problems come to light, whether the budget would be filled with maybe 20% of tobacco and tobacco products to introduce some control at all customs. Why are the sites set up during the old regime to control who can smuggle, not simply prevent smuggling, but to have a directive, control, why not use it anymore? Why don't the cameras at the border crossings work, why don't many of the things that existed work in our customs? Because someone doesn't care about the smuggling. This is the topic of tobacco and tobacco products, it is also the subject of this law. It can't be without each other, it's a partial solution that's acceptable, the DSS thinks this bill is better than the existing one, and we'll support it in principle. We have a lot of amendments, relating to some criminal provisions, that is, tightening certain provisions and, of course, there are two concepts, and we have decided to ban any kind of advertising of tobacco and tobacco products, simply to get close to the European Union standards, since it is forbidden in these countries. Also, this law has a lot of contradictory provisions, in fact, look at Article 54 and Article 58 where it is said that certain provisions in Article 54 of the existing tobacco law remain in force, and then Article 58 says that the law absolutely ceases to apply. Since Article 58 is the one that comes after, the provisions of Article 54 are not valid, so we're going to have one legal vacuum. I think we should look at it, get rid of it, because it would be very bad to pass the law, and then we need an interpretation of that law, which is a provision in force, which is not in force. We need to do everything to prevent, first of all, the sale of these two factories, because it's worth a couple hundred million dollars. These factories are very important for Serbia's future development strategy, so this law, in my view, which doesn't regulate agriculture and its development -- should see the Minister of Agriculture who is responsible for this, which is obviously a little bit concerned with this, so someone else, another ministry, has to replace it in what his job is -- should create conditions to get development programmes for the tobacco industries in Serbia. In this way, the tobacco industry in Serbia, and after the sale, if there is one this year at all, and it will be safe, because it is something that is very fast and easy to sell, for which there are many interested, tobacco industries, I think of these in our country, there will be no more tobacco industry in Serbia, but it will be the tobacco industry "Philip Morris" or anyone else; it will be here, but profit will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25588	National MP, do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25589	I'm done now, I'll use it later. We here must foresee mechanisms to protect our agriculture, because this law has not done so. That's something the minister has to do. There's still time. We will vote in favour of the bill in principle, but there are still a lot of provisions and it would not be ugly for the minister to withdraw it, to get it done and to come to the agenda, to have a complete and comprehensive solution that would not endanger the existence of farmers in Serbia. It will seriously be questioned, or the work of our farmers, especially in Vojvodina, where perhaps the amount of import tobacco will prevent our economy from working and making our tobacco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25590	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25591	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, however we turn, whatever the subject is on the agenda, can't be without us socialists being mentioned. It doesn't make sense, Mr. Michael, to mention, that you insult our socialists when you talk about selling businesses and comparing us to the current government. We sold only one company, 49% of Telekom's shares for a fantastic billion and 568 million marks, and the Italians themselves paid about a billion marks, while the current government sells what it can, everything that falls under her hands and why. So much for selling. Respected Presidency, respected fellow MPs, every debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on tobacco, or documents governing the issues of tobacco and tobacco and tobacco trade should be aimed at the ultimate goal: firstly, the encouraging development of tobacco production and domestic tobacco industry; secondly, the suppression and abolition of cigarette smuggling, the black tobacco market and the placing of huge money flows into operation of the needs of the state of Serbia and its citizens. Cigarette smuggling exists today, as well as yesterday and years ago, in Serbia, Montenegro and other countries in the environment. Cigarette smuggling is also a problem for all Western European countries. When it comes to Serbia, billions of packs of cigarettes imported illegally into the country are mentioned, a figure of several hundred thousand to a billion euros is mentioned, it is money that is illegally convulsed by those who organise cigarette smuggling. This data was confirmed by some DOS leaders in their public statements, in addition to the press. I must say, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has so far failed to achieve essential results in curbing smuggling and detecting people behind everything. In this case, there was no entrepreneurship of the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor so much shouting transparency. In addition to the already known and present marketing approach, taking pictures next to the truck of seized cigarettes, we have not yet received all the information needed by this assembly, or what the citizens are interested in - who is behind the smuggling of cigarettes, the name and name of one or more responsible persons or organizations. I also have to tell Mr Djelic, he may have been out of Serbia in December 2000, so he didn't hear that there was an initiative here to form a survey board, there was some writing in the press, but the point is to establish all the facts that are related to tobacco and tobacco production. We Socialists supported the formation of this survey board and we said there was no need to be time-set everything, so they could have dealt with the issue of production and traffic of tobacco over a long period of time. The second thing is that because of the notorious abuse of the official position and the inciting of the crime, tens of thousands of people have been charged, but no criminal charges have been filed for one of the most adjudicated crimes, which is the smuggling of cigarettes. Cigarette smuggling is also part of organised crime. Organized crime is a link between the state and the criminal structures that do it. We didn't get an answer to the simple question - who's behind it? The government is totally incompetent or has an interest in not revealing it. We want facts, knowledge, we don't need a naked story. Both this assembly and the citizens need to know who is behind the smuggling, and the MUP informs us from time to time that in Serbia there are you and these clans, and these groups, to deal with cigarette smuggling, and there is no one behind it, the name, the criminal application, the determination of responsibility and the punishment of the guilty. The draft tobacco law, which we are discussing today, will not improve anything in the area of tobacco smuggling and tobacco products. There's nothing a tobacco agency will do about it, it's formed by this law. It, in addition to a number of different businesses, has been pretentically established and is obliged to co-ordinate "the activities of authorities and organisations in the area of combating illegal traffic of tobacco products". The newly formed tobacco agency, therefore, needs to be some authority, some new government weapon in the fight against cigarette smuggling. Anyone who can still believe that, except the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It sounds funny that the newly founded tobacco agency and these newly employed people, by structure and by number of employees, by authority, can in general, let alone successfully coordinate the work of the MUP, the Security-Informative Agency and other specialised bodies and units formed in the fight against organised crime, against cigarette smuggling and tobacco products. This law aims to establish a monopoly of the government of the Republic of Serbia, almost absolute, in the area of tobacco production, production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products in Serbia; to, of course, put as much money into the budget as possible, not taking care of the protection of domestic production, nor of its development, nor of the people who live out of it. So, while on one side it publicly advocates the market conditions of business, the government introduces a monopoly on the other, thus becoming an absolute master of fate and the value of tobacco in Serbia, total production and transport. Control was established through a three-stage decision - through resolution ministries, through the tobacco agency and at the end of the government itself, but also through the work of republican inspectors, agricultural, sanitary, marketable; where one stops the other will continue. The Serbian government, who knows by which time a new agency is formed, this time for tobacco, gives it jobs that should be done by the resolution ministries and thus actually shows that this government of the ministry is not needed, because what the ministries are doing can be done by the agencies that it unfeelingly forms. The agency organises and conducts a public tender for obtaining a licence for the production of tobacco products, determines who meets the requirements and proposes to the Government to grant that authorisation. The conditions for authorisation are listed in Article 22. The proposal of this law shows that the government does not care about domestic producers. This is to be specifically concluded through point 6 of the first position, where an undertaking or undertaking undertakes to purchase domestically processed tobacco in a quantity of at least 2,000 tonnes per year. We find the proposed solution unfair. According to the data we own, more than 12,000 tonnes of tobacco were produced in 2001; in Vranj 1,900 tonnes and Nis remained. If the offered solution were applied, the purchase of domestic tobacco would be 4,000 tonnes, and 8,000 tonnes would remain out of it. It would be fair, given the diversity of capacities of these two companies, as well as the need to develop primary production, that there is an obligation to buy at least 50% of the annual production of domestic tobacco. The law does not prescribe the same conditions for existing undertakings, i.e. entrepreneurs to be licensed to conduct trade in large tobacco products. In one case, those who exist and work are subject to strict conditions in Article 28, and others who intend to do so require a project and provides a bank guarantee. However, the company which wants to deal with the import of tobacco and tobacco products should pay only a fee for importing tobacco, and the conditions are almost non-existent, unlike those set up for domestic producers and wholesalers. The law introduces also recommended retail prices, which is in fact dictated by manufacturers of tobacco products and competition and wholesalers; therefore, there is neither market nor competition. In the case of retail trade in tobacco products, in addition to a number of obligations laid down in Article 34. The draft law also provides for the payment of compensation for the authorisation of the retail sale of tobacco products. For companies and entrepreneurs, a logical question arises - why someone, if he registered his company or retail company, which includes tobacco products, and pays a price for it, must now, in particular and subsequently, pay a new charge, i.e. the obligation of the State. How restrictive and unfair the law also shows a member of the 40th that determines the obligation of the Republic's agricultural inspector to "destroy the dispersion of tobacco and scattered tobacco produced or placed on the market against the provisions of this law" and to bring a solution within three days. First to destroy it, then to bring the solution. God forbid it is possible for the manufacturer to be able to prove that the decomposed tobacco is produced in accordance with the law, let alone to set a time limit for it to eventually remove a certain flaw and irregularity, as it has been in force so far. The bill also contains a number of other provisions that confirm its one-way, unfairness, restrictiveness in relation to domestic tobacco and tobacco producers. This bill is not aimed at encouraging exports. The government doesn't care, it's just how to handle the needs of the whole budget the simplest. That the government of Serbia and the state does not have a strategy in the area of tobacco and tobacco products production and transport also confirm data on imports and exports of tobacco and cigarettes from last year. At that time, 70.5 million dollars were paid for imports, and the export of tobacco and cigarettes was worth $3.9 million, so 18 times less. This bill will not change the situation. On the contrary, it can only cause an increase in imports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25592	The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25593	Dear Members of the People, since we have a tobacco law in front of us, I wonder if it might be good, since this is excise goods, to get a proposal for a law on coffee and alcohol, because it seems to me that we still don't have good regulation in these two areas. When it comes to coffee, it is exclusively import goods, excise goods, privileged and I have the impression that significant profits are made; and the question is at all what imports are imported, whether imports are raw, how they are controlled and how they are resolved in these relations. By my estimate, 100 tonnes of coffee is taken daily in Belgrade, but for which mass is charged tax in the area - we should see it together. But to get back to this basic topic. This law essentially has a good starting point and should have three strong treatments. When it comes to legal regulation, it is the first - treatment in the field of health care or part of treatment in the field of health; the second treatment would be in the area of agricultural production, although there are but some other elements are missing; and the third, most important, fiscal treatment. I say fiscally - because it is one of the country's significant fiscal sources and has the impression that it would suit both producers and wholesalers, as well as retail, that this area is more professionally defined, because I assume that those who regularly pay taxes pay good wages, buy out all agreed quantities of tobacco, do not want to be in the overall story that appears on this topic. A good part of the solution makes full sense and can help partially solve problems in this area, because the overall solution comes out of the framework of this law and implies many other areas and the need to regulate it in these areas. There could have been a member of the law here that would have defined the health care area, not referred to that health care area. It's simple, we could have written a member of the law that says - it's forbidden to advertise cigarettes through electronic media. And the thing is simple, then you wouldn't have similar problems or different variations of advertising in that area and that would be a good solution, but also to punish the electronic media that do it. So not just all producers, and traders in all areas have an interest in advertising. We cannot forbid any of them to advertise, but we can say in the law what is not good, and above all from the point of view of health, although there is a fact that I really believe that Serbia is one of the countries that, according to the population, has the largest number of people who consume cigarettes. There used to be a part of the law that regulated the area of tobacco, first of all from the point of view of agriculture. I think the inspection supervision in that, and also in other areas, is small because this inspection service in the area of agriculture is very small. So, she doesn't have the necessary gauges, she has the control package, but there's no gauges that are necessary to control it all. Therefore, I think that not only control functions from the point of view, but also some measures, and I would say above all that important measures in the seed producer are a special type of control; further, those authorised entities that have been given by the manufacturer to negotiate the process of direct agricultural production, the way in which these contracts are written. You have in the previous procedure of giving seeds, preparations, giving certain amounts of fertilizer and you may have some subsidies in a financial sense to make this production work, and then you end up with the bond you signed and you can't make your profit, you go into dumping prices, you have a drop, and you're necessarily in losses. They're not big manufacturers. I think the biggest problem is small agricultural producers and the role of this member talking about the need to commit to buying domestically processed tobacco in a quantity of at least 2,000 tonnes. We think it's necessary to raise this level from 2,000 tons to 3,000 tons. And when we talk about tones, I can say one parallel indicator. If you have 500 tonnes of untreated tobacco, it is packed in about 30 to 50 drop-offs, and when you push out 120 to 150 drop-offs of finished cigarettes, and when you take the income and variation measure in which income is generated in the toy-blaste, you can measure the income from a million euros to 12 million euros to that amount. So you can immediately multiply the number by four, so you'll also have the amount of income from that area. So, there are pretty high profits, I'd say quite high when it comes to our economy in this area and I think that the ransom level should be at some higher level, because it would defend the primary producers, because their crafts in that area are not daily, but rather the production process in that area takes from production to sales from 6 to 8 months. In this way, we can protect those people who do direct production. I'd move on to this part that talks about traders, whether companies or entrepreneurs are, it doesn't matter, but I think that when it comes to getting a license and making decisions about giving a license, it's done a lot, but I'm missing some details. They may not see each other, but they're big. It is said here that it has adequate infrastructure, that it has means of transport, etc. You can rent everything in Serbia, a rolling stock and a warehouse, you can import it on a lease or otherwise, rent equipment from abroad with which you will, because you have equipment across Europe very cheaply, manufacturingly achieve the overall process of production. It's still about the five million-dollar guarantee, so 30 million, etc. I don't think it's enough, and it should be with these producers, whether companies or entrepreneurs, entered property rights, extended property rights, for protection, especially if it's multiple returnees, or people who have had a large number of tax solutions each year that determine tax evasion, as well as if they're still multiple returnees in one year, so they paid fines or criminal penalties only in that area. As far as I know, although this should be discussed with respect, a large number of inspectors in the financial police in the previous period have determined, charged and filed late reports. It was when you moved to the justice stage that it was diversifying the experts, with various other solutions, although the solution of the financial police inspector in the area is the solution of experts for the area and the facts identified by the direct, clear, evidenced. So, the first phase is realized and when you go to the second, some of them say -- it's not well calculated, they say one way or another, and you come to the stage that most of those people have been going through with a misdemeanor, some of them with parole, almost no one with any jail time, any month.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25594	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25595	Just two more sentences, so I'm done. Since these figures are mentioned here, I'm going to say, a number of 30 million is mentioned, and since this isn't recorded budget revenue for 2003, that 30 million, and it's probably going to come up here in a variety of ways when you have these producers, wholesalers, and retailers, so when you have all the rest, hundreds of millions of dinars will appear. I propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I think that fellow MPs will agree to solve three acute things that are important to Serbia at this point, which is primarily the Bora County, the problem is in Bor and Majdanpek, problems with buying tobacco in pyrotic areas and the problem of paying off sugar tails. So, there are funds, not intended and these hundreds of millions of dinars could be used primarily for the Borski District, to restructure the economy of the region, that we don't have those daily protests, to solve this in the Pyrot County. So these are concrete measures that we can immediately implement from these sources of income by the end of this month.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25596	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. ) He applied for the word of Finance Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25597	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to, given that this is the end of the intervention of the heads or president of the parliamentary groups, to try to answer at least a few questions and to address the doubts that have arisen so far. First of all, I have to realize that it's a little ironic that they're trying to give us lessons from those who were in power when Serbia was a black hole of cigarette smuggling in our country, when they merged with the top of the country and that the sons who allegedly wore crates actually carried boxing and provided huge profits. As for some other objections here, there have been some illusions about a cigarette manufacturer who's been showing up for the last two years under the brand "fast" and I don't want to make any advertising for that brand. We need to realize that she has made one breakthrough on the market and there is nothing in the law, all the way to these new laws that will come into force, which prohibits anyone from advertising their product on television. And by the way, and that's what I said in the opening statement, I think that line on the moments is broken and in the current law, because there's more and more of a pack form coming up, or what I found out like you, that in some of these ads it's said -- it's being bought, but it's not a newspaper, and down there we have an address for an internet site where on the English pentobaco i.e. tobacco. All of this, and I contacted the services, must stop and a new law that will come before this esteemed home through which month should be cut, and very clearly, whether any brand in Serbia can be advertised in any way related to cigarettes. You'll see that the question isn't so automatic and so easy to solve. Today, many media outlets have large revenues from these advertisers. The question is whether these commercials are completely abolished or better arranged, so more than today, you avoid the illusion that it's a cigarette. Every country needs to cut it in its own way. I think it's supposed to belong to that law, and at that point, it's going to be very important to go out with that occasion. I think that's where we need to go more stringently and better, because it's just that people from the market and the media know that they can find a way to keep the illusion directly connected to this. The large houses in the area of cigarette production were winding up in various ways, so they even launched their brands of clothing, perfumes, and other things, so that they could advertise them when they couldn't smoke. Imagination is very lush when it comes to it, because it's a big profit. Perhaps this home, and it will be up to you to decide, can ban it completely. It comes with some consequences, but that's where I'd stop. As for "fast", I would like to say the official opinion I signed on behalf of the ministry, what was in fact relatively unclear in the opinions of the Federal Ministry of Economic Relations with the foreign and federal administration of customs. There was a question, could some cigarettes that allegedly went "to dorado in Bulgaria" when they returned to our country be treated as domestic cigarettes. The answer of my ministry and my personal is no. That's why we're having a dispute with this company today, because as far as the contracts they have with the tobacco industry Nis and the Vranje for the production of cigarettes on the domestic market are concerned, and as long as these laws are respected, I don't see what you can blame. However, it can't be said that a cigarette is going to work in Bulgaria, as it seems there is not enough capacity for the rapidly growing brand, and then to be declared a domestic cigarette afterwards. We're not going to stand down from that. This finance minister made it very clear. I can tell you for a long time about various interventions and pressures, about various suggestions, about the great activity of this company that what they imported and what stands on the lager in Nis, about 30 tons, is declared domestic production. As long as I am the finance minister, the cigarette produced in Bulgaria is Bulgarian and not Serbian. If that group wants to meet the conditions to build a cigarette factory on our territory and hire several hundred people, continue to invest in distribution, then I see nothing controversial. The law is the same for everyone, and no one can convince me that a cigarette can go to work in Bulgaria and allegedly cheat like ours. So much for that and so much for the determination that the law applies by the same archaic to everyone, no matter who they are. As for success in the area of the fight against smuggling, we should have the least demagogy here. I didn't say at any point that we were so successful. You yourself see smuggling in highly developed markets, with and and how developed administrations, with strong inspections, with great control of these inspections and a degree of corruption that is less than with us. In England, Italy, France, Germany, the participation of illegal cigarettes is growing. So what we see here is that what we're talking about is not just a flash fight or some quick war; this is going to be a trench fight, this is something that will never get off the agenda. There will always be a question, and I think it's absolutely correct that our citizens measure the success of any government in the level of cigarette smuggling. Experience has shown that the huge involvement of smuggled cigarettes on any market is not possible without some silent approval of the very top of the country. I think it's very good for our people to look closely and measure with their eyes what happens on trades, in everyday life, and then through statistics, and then through the results of fiscal and other, agriculture of domestic producers, and whether they're domestic companies or foreign companies, who will want to join the development of our market with our resources. It's all right. When we realize that in one year our largest factory, one of the largest in the Balkans, had a record production last year, when we see that it had to introduce a third shift, when we see that it was able to launch new products as never in its history; when we see how many people were arrested(70), and some twenty large chains of smuggling were cut; when we see how many criminal charges were filed; and when we see that 920,000 boxings were seized and a million were destroyed, 260 million excise stamps burned because they no longer fit into the new, much more stringent way of issuing excise stamps or because of what in Subotics and in some other places we find counterfeits - when we see all of them, ladies and gentlemen, there must be no priorities, and there are no more priorities. It's not just a matter of public income, it's a matter of health, and that's why they have to destroy those cigarettes, because who knows where they were produced. Then who could justify any government to throw in soldiers and any other product that they don't know where it was produced, what would happen if they got sick, how the state could do it and play with their health. Ladies and gentlemen, this government sees as one of its great tasks - where it has been observed and already recognised results on the international agenda, far from being complete, but believe me, it is clear to us that in 2003 and with this law more than ever - that it must work to suppress smuggling, to develop our agriculture in this domain, to provide strong and not only domestic, but regionally and hopefully tomorrow international positions of the factories that produce cigarettes on our soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25598	I thank the minister. We are continuing to discuss the proposal for a tobacco law according to the application for the word of the MPs. The first to be declared is MP Marijan Risticevic, and the next to be declared by the word is MP StevanGuduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25599	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I think that so far our people have been smoking cigarettes and getting lung cancer, and that smugglers and corrupt politicians have been taking the lead in the former regime. That's what they were talking about, those cherry crates and stuff. I think this is a very good law because in a comprehensive way it covers not only the trade you're talking about right now, but mainly the production and processing of raw tobacco, the production of cigarettes, the trade of large and retail. So it's a whole law, it's never been a case before. That is why this effort by the competent ministry and the government deserves all praise. I particularly like the provision under which cigarette manufacturers must purchase domestic tobacco, raw tobacco produced by farmers or farmers. So, cigarette manufacturers, in addition to meeting financial and technological conditions, must buy 2,000 tons of raw tobacco. This has not been the case so far, and this has great significance in agricultural production. Just so we don't get what happened to us in Pirot; and despite the government's predominant tobacco production with 40,000 dinars per hectare -- and it's only happened since this government came in, she didn't predominate anything -- that tobacco had no one to buy for the simple reason that cigarette manufacturers weren't obliged to buy domestic tobacco, it was cheaper for them to get imported tobacco. I want to commend this measure, it guarantees us that agricultural production will move forward. If we have 4-5 cigarette manufacturers, they'll be obliged to buy about 10,000 tons of tobacco. In this way, up to 20,000 agricultural holdings, and above all those small ones who do not have a chance, due to the structure of their property, to produce some serious result in the production of corn, wheat, etc., will have a chance to make some income in the production of tobacco on that small unit of the surface. Wholesale and retail trade; I agree that sanctions may be too large, that deposits are too large, but something had to start, given that we found a real javelin in the tobacco store on a large and small scale. With some financial measures, we need to force traders, both large and small, to comply with the laws. The fines should be appropriate. If they go into tobacco smuggling, they will certainly lose their deposits to a large number of millions of marks lying in the National Bank. Now, let me say something about the hypocrites of the former regime, who even talked about some of the pieces here, so one, I guess, was the vice president of the government, I don't know what he was, said that a known smuggler had a grip with the former regime. That's the only true thing he said. Also, to remind you that some foreign producers with their cigarettes on this territory were treated as domestic. Let me mention to you that greeting from the trenches, greetings from Rovinj. So, during the former so-called. Patriotic authorities "ronhil" have been treated as a B-quality cigarette. If I'm wrong, you correct me. I can believe that the Deputy Prime Minister, who was in charge of finance, did it for some of the traditional reasons, since he came from that part of Bosnia of Croatia, so he thinks it's a domestic cigarette for him. (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to earn or interfere with the speaker. [[Thuding.]] ) (Tomislav Nikolic: I should not warn him, but the president of the country, acting in charge. I really don't know, if I'm wrong, I'll be corrected by the Secretary of Finance, whether a cigarette "ronhil" is considered a domestic cigarette, a B-category cigarette. And let me point out, despite that fact... (Tomislav Nikolic: Shame on you. ) Which would be a shame to me, I didn't register them as a domestic cigarette, but some other people who ruled before me If this isn't true, you'll deny me truth and truth. [[Thuding.]] So, in addition to the fact that the cigarette, the Croatian cigarette "ronhil", was a cigarette of the domestic category, I don't know how, they didn't work legally. In the last five years, this former government has charged a total of, I think, excise, sales tax and other taxes for 160 tonnes of cigarettes. Let me remind you that compared to your 160 tonnes in five years, this government has charged excise duties, sales taxes and customs duties for 5,000 tonnes of cigarettes. So in nine months she charged 30 times more than you in five years. Now, let's see how much anybody's earned in those last five years, when taxes are charged for just 160 tons of cigarettes. I think the former government is with smugglers and mobsters -- and I really believe they understand best who the mob is here because they left it to us and they know very well who they've been working with -- divided by half a billion to a billion marks, at least 500 million marks. That's where I don't believe in those cherry crates of yours. (The President) For the last time, I warn you not to throw a messenger to the people and not to disturb him in his presentation. [[Thuding.]] ) I believe that the reason for this anger from the opposition ranks of the former authorities is that they have lost great profits.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25600	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25601	Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, probably this law, when it was written, should have come then to discuss it. The only thing that might have been waiting for some people to finish some jobs and then the law to come into force. As in all laws, agencies are always the main story. It's very hard to expect everything you leave without a job to work at the agency. I'll just tell you that when you very well privatized the Beocian cement factory, it was essentially donated to French La Farja, half the workers were out of work after half the year. I don't know how many agencies it takes to open up for all of them to get a job and have more work or live. We'll talk about the part a little bit more when Mr. Vlahovic arrives and the privatisation law. Secondly, Article 22 practically places a little too many monopolies in the tobacco processing phase. A little too strict criteria are being set, practically only two options are being left. There are no stories about small and medium-sized enterprises, the possibility that someone else might be involved in the processing of tobacco, to make some special brands, especially in terms of quality, small quantities, exclusives, etc. Or it leaves room that there are only two firms to make it easier to complete the privatisation afterwards. The traffic monopoly is visible in Article 28 and it cannot be hidden. Maybe that's why it's been waiting another half year from writing the bill to his arrival in front of the MPs. If we're looking at this excessive administration in the business, from saying that there's got to be some kind of board being made, some kind of board jumping up to sell cigarettes, and then someone's going to prescribe what a board is going to look like, so if we go like that for all the other goods that can come in here, then someone's going to have to build an entire wall in a store just for the board to serve it, and where's they gonna put the stuff? Also, in that smuggling that wasn't controversial, and those who did it should be recognized, because somebody said what was five years, and then five years later, and now two years. All those who participated in the first five years, in the other five years, and now in these two years, add themselves together. As far as I'm aware of everything that's happened, and I haven't participated, in those about five years before, there were these bigger wonders, and let them remember who was in charge; there was at least the minister of the party that I belonged to recently - the SPS, and others see themselves. Now, with this smuggling, that's where the minister said there's no more -- you're out of hand. Maybe people realized that truck transport was the most expensive. It's probably easier to end with the railroad, so only the one waving that flag or waterway, that was always the cheapest. The law probably could and should have been better. It would be very good if only this part of the criminal policy really applied equally to everything and should be, and should be, rigorous. Don't let us tell people how we are about being punished and being two banks, so we can calculate it right now at the price of the product and then nothing. Penalties should be for everyone, even those who have been advertised from this assembly booth so many times, I wouldn't advertise them any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25602	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon, and I ask you to determine whether we have the quorum needed to work on the debate in principle. Here you go. I find that we have a quorum to work with and continue the debate in order of the MPs and their application for a word in the principle debate on the tobacco law. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25604	Dear MPs, those who have wondered what the basic problems of this society are in current social agony and hopelessness, have been answered by the appointment of this extraordinary session of the Assembly, with the first item of the agenda - the draft tobacco law, I suppose, as a priority. For reasons of the adoption of this law, it is clear that it is essential to put the total production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products on the domestic market in the legal frameworks, as explained in the reasoning, from which it can be concluded that the production and transport so far were not legal or that there was a law, but that it was not respected. Control of production flows and legality in carrying out tobacco products, improving the quality of domestic production, protecting consumer health, as well as the harmonisation of legal obligations towards public revenues, are also the reasons why this law is proposed. For the first time now, health protection is of great importance because it becomes important because it is only now the obligation of the manufacturer to point out that tobacco is harmful to health, which now opens up the possibility that everyone whose health has been violated has the right to press charges against the state in order to compensate for the damage to their health, because so far these warnings have not been highlighted, so this is a really big step. In the light of the law, however, it was necessary to highlight the dramatic situation in terms of worsening health, because the number of lung tumours, and that microcellular type, on a sharp rise, does not indicate that there is an increase in the number of amputations of "smoker legs". The law itself in several places is not precise enough, so I'm going to ask the absent finance minister - what does it mean in Article 4(3) that the minister in charge of health affairs is taking care of how to highlight the warning that tobacco is harmful, on the proposal of the tobacco agency? What if the Agency doesn't suggest it? This means that the Agency’s finding depends on the warning that tobacco is harmful and cannot be sold to minors. On the other hand, who in the tobacco agency can advise the health minister, who, as a rule, according to the doctor's education, what kind of warning will this be? Does this mean that the warning will say that tobacco is not too harmful, that it is not too harmful or that it can be curative? This is one serious inaccuracy; however, it did not accidentally enter the law. Yesterday I asked the finance minister to tell me what tobacco law he served as a guest and an example of reputation. He said some laws are from neighbouring states. According to what we saw at the DSS Parliament Club, as a mustra served the Law on tobacco of the Republic of Croatia and Austrian law; however, only one small part. First of all, the main reason for this bill, which entered the procedure six months ago, is actually the tobacco agency, so the law could be called - the law on the tobacco agency. Conceptionally, it's clear that the state has a monopoly, so there's nothing in place to object to other states. The production and transport of tobacco is a monopoly of the state, however, the question is why the Ministry of Agriculture is not intended as a ministry that is responsible for the production and transport of tobacco, but is being formed by an agency that has a board of directors. According to Article 9. The draft law of the board of directors includes the agriculture minister, finance minister and the economy, health minister, trade minister and interior minister. Was it necessary to predict such a massive body, if the goal was for each of the ministers to exercise serious control over the production and traffic of tobacco. So isn't it enough for the Ministry of Agriculture to do its part of the job, the Ministry of Health to do its part of the job, the Ministry of Finance to do what public incomes and proper control and also the Ministry of Trade. However, I see that the board of directors is now scheduled to have the Home Secretary as well. Does this mean that the legislator had in mind what Branislav Nusic said in time - that there are no questions in Serbia that are not in charge of the interior minister, so now he is also one of the members of the agency's board of directors. Article 13 states that only those types and classes of tobacco established by the federal regulation may be produced. As of yesterday, the mention of federal regulations doesn't make much sense, so I recommend that the finance minister, while this procedure is under way, bring this member into line with the new constitution, i.e. the Charter and the relevant regulations. But apparently it wasn't meant on June 26th, when the bill was handed over to this assembly in procedure. However, I believe that the main and obvious weakness that is suppressed by private tobacco producers is because this tobacco law does not provide for a production contract between manufacturers and tobacco processors. That's what all tobacco laws in neighbouring countries have. First, these laws provide that this contract is strictly formal and must contain all essential elements, in order to ensure legal certainty for both manufacturers and tobacco processors. Thus, agreements on the relationship between manufacturers and processors in some neighbouring countries contain data on cadastrian parcels and the area of agricultural land planted on which tobacco is planted, and I do not know why this law does not provide. Thereafter, the name and variety of tobacco to be planted are not regulated, the way in which the parties provide seed, i.e. tobacco breakdown, the obligation to apply measures to control plant diseases and tobacco pests, and the application of other mandatory tobacco growing measures. Not even the price of tobacco produced per class, which will be paid by the tobacco processor to the manufacturer, this law does not contain at all, so that the problem of manufacturer and processor safety remains the same as it has so far. It is not established that the manufacturer's obligation to deliver all the tobacco manufactured and tobacco processors' obligations to take over tobacco and to pay the contracted price within the contracted time period. I do not understand at all why it is not envisaged that the manufacturer must make a statement to the processor, that he did not enter into a contract with another processor during a certain period of time. These are all serious failures; I don't understand why all this is missed. In other countries, for example, a contract that does not contain these elements is nothing and cannot be obtained any protection from the court. It would be good for the finance minister to consider some amendments to the law supplementing the tobacco law on the provisions of the tobacco production contract. When it comes to a number of members mentioned here, it is not envisaged who prescribes the protection price of tobacco, and in the current year for the next one, on the proposal of the minister. If regulated by this law of trade on a large and small scale, then the price of tobacco should be predicted. It's amazing that the finance minister is defending this proposal, and there's no word in it about the price of protection. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25605	The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, and after him, the MP of the people is Borisvoje Katic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25606	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few words about the text of the proposed tobacco law, I must refer to the previous afternoon discussion of Mr. Minister, who is not here. He devoted half of his presentation on the tobacco law proposal to protecting the health of Serbian citizens who smoke and those who sit with smokers. It's the subject of other ministries and other state bodies in this country. The minister would have to take care of the other one. Resorno is not in charge of Serbia's citizens' health, and if he is, he has done a lot of damage to their health by introducing taxes and taxes on everything and everything. In this year, the ministry, headed by Mr Djelic, is expected to introduce the air tax we breathe. The health of Serbian citizens will then be improved, as so much concern by the minister leads to this. Otherwise, when it comes to what this law provides, it should be said that it is in Article 1. The bill just said what is the subject of this law, which is the regulation of production, traffic of tobacco to large and small etc. We have heard a lot about tobacco smuggling, illegal trade, etc., and I believe that this should be regulated by other laws and that other state bodies in the Republic of Serbia, which are well paid for it, should be taken into account. On the other hand, if we look at the date when this bill arrived before the MPs of this National Assembly, we see how significant it is, if it was already eight months from the date when the Government sent it and when the MPs got it, then it is only now that they put it on the agenda. Let the government answer why this is so, if this is one of the reform laws, and it should be, why is it waiting for a full eight months to see the light of day and come to this Parliament's agenda. Now let me make some remarks in front of the Soviet Parliament Club about the very proposal for a tobacco law. First of all, what I would point to, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is Article 4, which speaks of the fact that the sale of tobacco products or better said cigarettes, is a narrow term of tobacco products, minors. Under minors, we know that all persons who are not 18 years of age are considered. We of the Soviet Union think and think that it is better for that member to say that the ban on selling to persons up to 14 years of age or younger minors. Given how young we are, as developed, well-fed, well-trained, etc., it will be difficult for the seller to determine whether someone is 17, 18 or 19 years old, and it is very discreet how he will determine whether they are minor or not, whether they are allowed to sell him a tobacco product. What if a parent or another neighbor sent him to get him a pack of cigarettes along with others? We think it's more practical to accept this for 14 years. In this law, we have a proposal to form a tobacco agency. We of the Soviet Union believe that it has become a fashion for each law to be passed, or immediately thereafter, to provide that the agency must be formed as well. We don't know if there's any areas of life and work in this country that have been regulated by some law so far without an agency being created. I guess everyone in DOS needs to be thanked in some way, some of their own responsible people, so they can put them in those agencies. The tobacco agency will do nothing except at first, as long as the licenses are divided, and since this law is in force, I wonder what it will do; it will spend money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and these are the taxpayers' money from Serbia's citizens. I also have an objection to Article 22. The bill, among other things, says the company has an obligation to buy processed tobacco at least two thousand tonnes a year, provided it produces 2.5 billion pieces of cigarettes. Why did the bill promoter, finance minister, go to that amount; we from the SSJ think it is better for domestic production to do it on a percentage basis, so that the manufacturer is obliged to process 70 or 80% of the domestic production tobacco produced in Serbia. In this way we would help our farmers to opt for the planting of tobacco, where prices would be guaranteed, safe ransom and all that follows. Otherwise, the figure, that amount for a large producer, and it's said to be at the beginning only the Vranje and the Nis tobacco industry, is not a big item. Article 28 speaks of wholesalers, of what wholesalers must fulfil as a condition in order to be able to get a license to deal with trade in large and tobacco products. It states that they must, among other things, have a storage space of 30 tonnes of cigarettes. I don't think the Ministry of Finance's authorities knew or wanted to know what the amount of cigarettes on the lager were and how to provide a 30-ton lager. If one pack of cigarettes is known to be 20 grams, then you can calculate how many packs and how much storage space is needed. We of the SS think that space should be much smaller. We also think it's an awful big commitment to have to provide a bank guarantee or a 30 million-dollar cash to get the trader to do the big trade. If we know, and remind ourselves, this is the Ministry of Finance that must know that from Belgrade to Vranj, wholesalers who deal exclusively with high-end tobacco products can be counted; they are mainly engaged in other trades, these are trades in large mixed goods and container products, so they are burdened to provide a guarantee or cash of 30 million dinars for trade in large tobacco products. In the next Article 29, it is an obligation to get a license that in five years they must pay five million dinars at once or in five annual wars per million dinars. You know, ladies and gentlemen, whoever's good enough to get that money to pay that tax or charge, they're going to go straight to the back of the retail sale, from retail to end-users, because someone's going to have to pay it, and it's certain that the wholesalers won't give up their rebate, or their profits. The Serbian Unity Party believes this too is too much of a burden for wholesalers, besides others, and that it needs to be reduced, so that it is about a million dinars. We think it's an appropriate amount in a year. When it comes to retailers on a small scale in the earlier proposal, traders on a small salary of 15-16 thousand dinars were scheduled to be able to trade tobacco products to a small extent, but after the talks, the Ministry's authorities, they must have realised that it was excessively reduced that obligation to 3,000 dinars. However, since we from the Serbian Unity Party are mostly living in the interior and we know the problems of smaller places, smaller environments, where there are only one or two shops, say remote rural areas, where, besides the other, tobacco products are sold and mostly in these shops, you have one, two or three types of tobacco products, and we wonder if it is really an obligation for such stores of mixed goods to have a special permit for the marketing of tobacco products and to pay a fee of 3,000 dinars. I'm saying some small shops won't have three thousand dinars of tobacco products in a year, and they'll have to pay a tax in addition to all those obligations to the state that have to settle. In this way, the finance ministry is unconsciously helping smuggling, so those people who are financially able to buy tobacco products in larger urban areas and will wear them in smaller environments, normally at higher prices. We're wondering if it's the Ministry of Finance's wish or whether it's necessary to even out all retailers on a little bit to sell besides other and tobacco products, because it's also a product like any other, on which taxes are paid and what's left of the obligations that retailers need to settle down. We in the Serbian Unity Party are asking the question - are tobacco products only excise products that wholesalers and few who pass them must pay these taxes. What about the traffickers at large and small coffee, then alcohol, alcohol drinks and the like. Why are they in a more favourable position, and we keep saying that all citizens are equal in front of the Constitution and the law in carrying out certain economics. In this way, certain traders are wanted to be large, and already knows who will get big trading licenses, put them in a more favourable position than other traders. Finally, one objection to criminal provisions. Proposed criminal provisions, given the economic situation in the country, the economic situation of traders, both large and small, are not appropriate and should be less. I'd like to make a note. Mr. Minister here talked about us being among the two countries that have the largest number of smokers in Europe according to the latest research. As the situation develops and the DOS gives us a chance to live, I'm afraid that soon in Serbia everyone will be smokers, because it's usually thought that tobacco is like some easy drug and leads to some prosperity; only when we light a cigarette can we think that we live well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25607	The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Katic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25608	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft tobacco law, which is today ahead of us, is a really big step in the clear definition of the cigarette market in Serbia. This regulation is indeed extremely liberal and gives everyone the opportunity to deal with the production and sale of cigarettes. Of course, if it meets the appropriate conditions specified in this law. The state here is really minimally mixed, and the market principles will determine who will survive in this business and who doesn't, which is really good in this law. The bill should be observed through its three aspects. The first refers to the obligation of tobacco producers to buy at least two thousand tonnes of homemade tobacco annually; it is really good and ultimately contributes to growing a much better quality tobacco, as well as to protecting our domestic production. As for the second aspect, it refers to a precise and regulated process from manufacturing to selling tobacco. The envisaged conditions for the production and sale of tobacco are indeed extremely sharp, which should be pointed out as good and positive in this law. At this very moment, only two factories, the tobacco industry Nis and the tobacco industry in Vranj, meet the conditions laid down by this law. This way and this edge will be maximumly avoided smuggling, which among other things is the aim of this bill. The third aspect refers to the existence and organisation itself of tobacco. By forming this agency, the legislator does not want to increase bureaucracy. Indeed, such an objection does not stand, for only a few workers will work in this agency. The point of this agency is that representatives of the tobacco industry, as well as experts from the resolution ministries, will sit on its board. In this way, the state will have in place control of the application of such an important law as the tobacco law. Indeed state control in this area and how it should be present. The agency gives its proposals to the Serbian government and also has to report to the Serbian Parliament. In addition to establishing state control, transparency and the public are being introduced here on all developments on this topic and in general all things related to production, including tobacco trafficking. There are two basic reasons that define such an approach as set out in the proposal for a tobacco law itself. The first is that excise duties, customs duties and sales taxes on tobacco products are indeed the highest budget revenue, and illegal sales make huge profits, i.e. a huge loss for the state. Another reason is the clear fact that smoking endangers the health of our people and citizens. Therefore, in this law, which is before you, there is a provision which obliges that it is clearly and clearly indicated that smoking is harmful to health; and also a provision that will prevent minors from buying cigarettes. All of this represents a great reason and justifies the establishment of full control of the state, both in the production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products. I would like, on this occasion, to illustrate, to say that the consumption of cigarettes in Serbia is approximately 2.5 million packs a day, making annual consumption of 18,000 tonnes or 912,000,000 packs. In addition to normal taxation, annual budget revenue from tobacco revenues should be about a billion euros or about 60 billion dinars, which corresponds roughly to the total federal budget for the past year. According to the current level of taxation, including illegal sales, budgets achieve barely a third of this amount, another reason that justifies a clear and justifiable establishment of full state control in this law. Here I would like to point out something that was really unusual in the previous period, which is that there was an initiative of tobacco factory workers to pass this law as quickly as possible, and then their active participation in writing this law, so it's really a little unusual for our climate, but it's in the tobacco law and how it was present. Finally, this law definitely introduces order in the production of raw tobacco, processing, production of cigarettes, imports, exports, wholesale, retail, so that opportunities for illegal production and trade are greatly narrowed down and significantly narrowed down. I therefore propose to the Assembly, for these reasons, unanimously accept this proposal of the tobacco law, as an official and clear beginning of the fight against the smuggling of this nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25609	The word is a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic, and after it is the Messenger of the people Dusan Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened with attention to the exposés of Minister Djelic, who said this law aims to combat smoking and reduce tobacco consumption. By reading the law, I couldn't find a provision that would contribute to this objective of the law. A good part of his exposé he devoted to tobacco harmfulness, but it's in the jurisdiction of some other ministers and he shouldn't have talked about it. One single provision states that retail sales are prohibited by underage persons. But, and that's a dead letter on paper, because if a kid comes in front of a trade, he finds anyone, you or me, asking someone to buy him cigarettes because his father sent him, I guess everyone will do it for themselves for sure. So it's not a way to direct our children to a healthy life and convince them of tobacco harmfulness. Then, the minister, boasting, said that in the course of last year, about 15 billion dinars have entered the Serbian budget based on taxes, excise duties and customs only from tobacco. I expected him to thank all the smokers for that, because that way the budget was successfully filled and the state could service its debts to other citizens. Why was so much tobacco spent last year? Believe me, since 2000, whoever thought they'd never smoke started smoking, and whoever was smoking doubled the amount of cigarettes, because under DOS rule, it's not easy to deal with all the problems that citizens face every day. By this law, gentlemen, if you want to read it and interpret it as only it can, the state wants to take over the monopoly on tobacco production and traffic, as it did with oil. She did it through one of the many agencies. A tobacco agency is now being set up. It is said in the law to be established for the purpose of organising and implementing a public tender for the production of tobacco products and to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the conduct of trade in tobacco products. Why should the Serbian government decide on who can deal with tobacco production or transport, who meets the conditions to participate in a public tender? I'd ask Mr. Minister, if he were here, I'd wait for that answer, whether liberal capitalism, which you're supposed to advocate, involves a monopoly state in many areas, including this one. I guess I'd say it doesn't, which is theoretically true, but everywhere there's money, Djindjic's government is trying to implement a monopoly, so that's how it is in this case; I expect coffee agencies, raspberries, whiskey, snails soon. Anything that is profitable in this country could be monopolised by this government. If we look at who are members of the Management Board of this agency - someone here dared to say that they are tobacco experts, I would not say they are tobacco experts, but they may be experts in tobacco smuggling - and these are finance ministers, internal affairs, health, director of the Republic of the Public Revenue Administration, director of Customs Administration, those who obviously understand themselves best in smuggling. Why would they now be more effective as board members and not effective at the head of their resolution ministries, where they already have the opportunity to tackle problems and introduce order in the production and transport of tobacco. The inspection services, which already exist in these resolution ministries, should decide who meets the conditions for the production of tobacco, wholesale and retail. That's what they've been up to now, and now it's all about the tubes, so between the ministries and those who decide there's some kind of agency. We are in a position for the ministries and their authorities to give an opinion to the agency that is the creation of the government. It's a completely upside-down thing, but so the government imagines control of tobacco production; obviously more without some agencies can't do anything. The fulfillment of the conditions for the purchase, processing and transport of tobacco is determined by this famous agency, according to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, which has so far been done by these ministries through competent inspections. I'm really sorry, we have very little time to talk about this law and my colleagues will continue to talk about the problems that we have seen in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25611	The word of the Messenger of the people is Dusan Ilic, and after him is the messenger of the people of Zivodark the Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25612	Ladies and gentlemen of the esteemed colleagues, I must start by looking back at my colleague's speech from the DS. I would like him to explain to me how this law encourages tobacco production if it is mandatory to buy 2,000 tonnes a year, and as he himself said, we are talking about 18,000 tonnes of tobacco and tobacco products, of which 13,000 tonnes is currently domestic production. It's probably some left-handed math that's only clear to him. I'd like him to explain that to me. This bill should fully regulate the area of production, processing, trade in large and small and imports of tobacco and tobacco products. Unfortunately, he does not and is mostly focused on trade, and it is one of the key problems and one of the key problems the DSS has on this law. In any case, this law is necessary and better than the current regulation of the area we're talking about. It is extremely important because in this sphere of economy, because of the extremely large difference between cost prices and retail prices, there are enormous profits and therefore there is a need to regulate this area well. That is the key reason why we will uphold this law in principle. However, the issue is that the government has not put this law on the agenda much earlier, and it is particularly controversial that it has not put it on the agenda along with the laws that should also regulate some strategic areas, primarily the sugar law and the alcohol law that any normal country should have. The only conclusion I am under is that the government consults individual partners from the country and abroad, in consultation with them, determines the terms and methods of passing laws. An example of the privatization of sugarcanes, I think, confirms this my suspicion. The bill is, as I said, mostly concentrated on trade and very little attention is paying attention to the production of tobacco and tobacco products. Domestic production is already on its knees, because the previous leftist government has stimulated tobacco smuggling, and the current leftist government tolerates tobacco smuggling. At the same time, it is also devastating to produce that cigarette prices are extremely low compared to Europeans, primarily because of the low standard of our population. I ask myself and you whether a low standard is sufficient reason to keep low prices. If we gradually transform the social prices of municipal services or bread, for example, I see no reason why we should not do so with the prices of tobacco and tobacco products. I speak as a non-smoker, I try to be rational, and I know that a large part of my population is going to get hit by this thinking, but the fact is that low tobacco prices stimulate smoking. Smoking endangers the health of our fellow citizens. This reflects sooner or later on health and social funds, which are already miserable and burdened. It would be good to think about prices. That's what Ambassador Mamula was talking about. It has not been determined who determines the protection prices, as my predecessor from the DS has already said. Obviously, we have the same sources, with the fact that I don't think he understood them very well. When we talk about the budget revenues that would be achieved in this tax area, we have to say that by increasing the price of tobacco and tobacco products, we would create a place to lower other tax rates, like sales taxes. Maybe even a budget would create a space for some other tax reliefs, like some kind of stimulating profit tax or something. That's why it's very important to think about this. The second opposition of the DSS to this law, which is very worrying, is the health minister as if he had not participated in its creation. Health care has not been sufficiently processed and in particular there is insufficient emphasis on the harmfulness of smoking. Instead of running a campaign with some colorful billboards, changing cigarettes for fruit in the Terrace, it might be better if the minister dedicated himself more to this and provided some of the solutions that we of the DSS have proposed in our amendments. This is primarily about solutions that would make tobacco and tobacco producers and importers make part of the extremely large revenues that make payments to health care funds and funds to help treat diseases resulting from smoking, as well as funds that would create space in the environment separately for smokers. It's a world trend and it's in line with environmental regulations. After all, the Law on smoking in public places has been trampled in this country for years. I'm just going to take a partial look at the agency and I'm sorry that Mr. Minister is not present, but I'd like to ask him if he thinks that this kind of solution on the Agency's board of directors may not be contrary to future standards on conflicts of interest, which will certainly be the subject of our interest; it's one of the necessary laws, and I believe we all consider it reformal. Given that the agency is an alpha and omega under this bill, it would be extremely important to tighten the control of the agency's work. I disagree with colleagues from other parties who claim that this law is restrictive to traders. On the contrary, there are extremely large sums in the game of which ordinary citizens turn their heads. Therefore, the rights to practice this activity must be subject to extremely strict supervision. Anyone who violates this law and the rules prescribed therein must be punished by the withdrawal of the right, or the licence to engage in this activity. Owners of retail facilities and kiosks can deal with and sell gum and newspapers if they want to gamble with the law. The wholesalers simply have to be punished if they get sloppy. In this direction are our amendments, which are much more stringent in terms of the right to obtain a licence, as well as sanctions for violating the rules of the game, i.e. the law. Finally, I'm going to ask a question that might point to the bill's final intentions. I am extremely interested in why the conditions for obtaining a license to deal with large-scale trade have been tempered; it cannot be obtained by companies and entrepreneurs who, during a three-year period, had problems, or committed criminal and criminal acts in the area of illicit tobacco trafficking; this period was five years in the draft. The government relieved him for three years, so I would ask the question -- who did the Serbian government deal with?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25613	The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25614	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, I must really resent all fellow Members of the People's Parliaments who have discussed so far, because they did not listen carefully to Minister Djelic when he said, "This is (the new term that was first heard here) by interreform law." I am sorry that Mr. Minister is not here to explain a little of that terminology to us, because at first I thought it was actually a positive self-critical of the current DOS government, as if she had accepted that all the laws, which were so far said to be reformal, were not reformal; at least not for the people, but probably for those from the top of the government; or that interspace was given by the fact that this bill stood in the assembly procedure for eight months, given that we got it on the 24th of June of last year, and only today comes on the agenda. We Socialists are certainly in favour of abolishing all illegal flows and bringing everything into legal flows, regardless of whether it's production, life, work. Whether this law will justify its expectations, we will see. What we strongly oppose is the criminal provisions again. There is no law in the DOS government that has no special chapter with criminal provisions anymore. I don't think it's nice for the current authority of its citizens to represent the unspeakable persons and that they can actually respect the law, which is usually the duty and obligation of the citizen of every country, including ours, only if there is a drastic punishment for the consequences and if the citizen slaps on the pocket, half empty or, unfortunately, even more empty. We socialists are bothered by chapter two on the establishment of the agency. You know, the minister said tobacco factories are nothing like mushrooms from day to day. I'd say government agencies suck like mushrooms every day. We no longer know how many agencies there are in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and now even the government is not afraid to formally introduce them into the law. It is certain that the implementation of this law will bring a significant charge of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but on the other hand, although it is nowhere to be seen here, it is known that the budget will be empty at the same time. How? Please, all these administrative agencies, a colleague just said that a couple of people will work in this agency, but this isn't the only agency the DOS government has, it's going to have to finance itself and become budget users. I wouldn't mind if our economy was at an envious level, if it hadn't failed, if it hadn't been sold out and people hadn't lost their jobs. I would be more happy if the government had given the idea of revitalising the economy, so that it employs new young workers, including those workers who have lost their job out of objective conditions, rather than creating some administrative apparatus, office clerks who will be paid at the expense of the state. It's okay that our country is rich. But then there is no story that, for example, we are employed in health care too much and that the Ministry of Health, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, cannot pay us personal income, or profit. Health workers from the municipality of Kikind for December -- no duty paid January, no overtime, because the Republic of Serbia's budget has no money. Also, we all come from some local self-government. It announced that the local self-government budget will be reduced by at least 1,000 dinars for cultural workers, preschool institutions and where their funding obligations are. It's normal, there's no money. They don't get money from the province budget, the province budget doesn't get money from the republican and then what? Do you think that a Serbian citizen will not be able to assess whether it is more important for him to have doctors, pharmacists, teachers or if there are workers there at an agency? If it's any consolation, which I don't think it is, it says the board of directors, imagine, will not be paid out of the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Since we have seen who is proposed for board members, my God, for such work there must be some other way to reward, but not from these funds. One clause speaks of a ban on selling cigarettes to minors. I'm personal about it, and I don't mind, but the question is, what does that get you? It should have been said that one part of the funds would be invested in compulsory underage education, starting with the first grade of primary school and every school year in a row, where the effect would be much more high-quality, as it would certainly significantly reduce the number of juvenile tobacco consumptions, and therefore likely not to become active smokers in late years. If we're fighting for the health of the human organism, I think that's our goal, then that's how we should influence education, the preservation of our offspring and our future. That it is not a minor asset that will be a direct inflow of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I will state only Article 29(2), where it says that the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget are to be paid in large sums of millions of dinars for the license in trade; and in Article 35(2). - approval for retail sale is paid, in the form of compensation, 3,000 dinars per facility. Maybe these 3,000 dinars don't sound much, but if we look in every middle at how many places tobacco is sold, then we'll see that they're not minor funds. Criminal provisions and not to speak. Since your democratic Rules of Procedure won't allow me to speak anymore, I have to leave time for my colleagues, and I'll be extremely pragmatic in the end. I propose, since it does not appear anywhere in the law that the distribution of money from the implementation of this law will be carried out, neither Minister Djelic nor Prime Minister Djindjic are there, that 1/3 of all funds received through the application of this law are transferred directly to the Ministry of Health, 1/3 to be transferred to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and some thirdly has a resolution minister to fill the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25615	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected the minister to honor us with his presence and then report a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1), but since he is not here, that the citizens of Serbia have been informed of his criminal act spoken today from this pay phone, so I guess he'll find out that I objected to that. You shut up, I didn't ask you anything. [[Thuding.]] In fact, the minister today at 13 and 45 minutes said, "As for some other remarks here, there were some illusions about a cigarette maker who appeared in the last two years under the brand "fast" and I don't want to make any advertising for that brand. We need to realize that she has made one breakthrough on the market and there is nothing in the law, all the way to these new laws that will come into force, which prohibits anyone from advertising their product on television. "This is why the minister committed criminal acts of inciting the execution of the crime and complicity in concealing the crime and should have been warned by you, who are leading this assembly, that only a few months ago we passed the Law on Broadcasting, which in Article 104 says, "It is forbidden to advertise tobacco industry products," and goes on to say, "It is forbidden to publish untrue, deceitful, hidden and blackening advertisements... which affects the opinion of the listener or the viewer, acting on his subconscious so that he is not aware or fully aware." With this bill, you predict that underage people will not be allowed to buy cigarettes on the trade, and you advertise cigarettes to them, so be it, and if it's a secret commercial, the commercial is completely clean. One of those thousands of spies, who the minister praises today, could have stood in front of any trade and said, "Give me what's called a fast," which has a logo like this, and it's not a newspaper. The seller would give him cigarettes. It's that kind of advertising. I must tell you, the Law on Broadcasting, which we didn't vote for, was foreseen in Articles 19 and 68 to protect minors, that it is one of the agencies that you formed and that is (Art. ( 19.) "especially old that programmes that can harm the physical, mental or moral development of minors are not available via radio or television, unless the time of broadcast or technical procedure ensures that minors are normally not in a position to see or hear them. "Emmitters are in debt (Art. 68.) that "they do not broadcast programs whose contents can harm the physical, mental or moral development of children and youth, and that such programmes clearly indicate. "(President: three minutes. I knew you were only interested in time, and I'm talking about children whose poisoning you allow here, the minister encourages child poisoning, and you're going to tell me that you're making laws according to our children. You tell that little minister, if I'm not accidentally in the O.R., and I'm gonna wait for him all day to show up here, could his kids in France watch commercials for cigarettes? He said there is no law that prohibits advertising of any product, so I ask him - and what is a ban on advertising of alcoholic beverages, professional-medical procedures, goods and services whose traffic or supply is prohibited by law, medicines or treatment of medicines that can only be obtained on medical prescription. Where is the minister allowed to come to the assembly to lie? It started when you came to power and it'll end on May 29th, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25617	The remarks made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, concerns Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure respecting the dignity of the National Assembly. With the strict application of the Rules of Procedure, the MP would have received a fine, as he knows very well that in his final discussion, he violated several members of the same Rules of Procedure. The strict application of the Rules of Procedure was not valid in any discussion, because this topic in this assembly, and in the following, will produce controversy and require the efforts of all of us to make all that is illegal in the trade and manufacture of tobacco suppressed. So, your objection does not stand, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask both you and all the other messengers to take care of the sentences they utter at the speaker of the National Assembly. (Employee from Hall: Read the stenogram and you will see. ) This includes throwing out the bench, and it also includes the obligation of the chairman to read the stenogram; I can repeat everything that has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure in the performances of all MPs and ministers, and it is not sanctioned by the strict application of the Rules of Procedure, which also left the last speaker without punishment under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word is by MP Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25618	Dear Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, dear colleague and colleague, we have before us a proposal for a tobacco law. He clearly, as you know and as you have heard here on many occasions, clearly prescribes one substance that has so far been unarranged in our legislation. We are in this law in a position to support the full business of legal persons and entrepreneurs in the production and processing of tobacco products, transport, export, import, wholesale and retail. The reasons for the adoption of this law are the placing of total production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products on the domestic market in legal frameworks, the control of production flows and legality in carrying out the transport of cigarettes and other tobacco products, the improvement of the quality of domestic tobacco production in terms of health and the creation of the necessary conditions for effective control and health care. There are two basic reasons for this approach: first of all, it is excise duties, customs duties and sales taxes, profit taxes, i.e. a major loss for the state; secondly, the fact that smoking seriously endangers the health of the country's elderly oronulae, which also causes increased costs in terms of treating and weakening the working ability of the population. The tobacco law introduces the order of production, import, wholesale, transport and retail; thus, the participation of cigarettes sold to which duties are not paid will certainly be marginalised. The conditions prescribed for manufacturers of processed tobacco and tobacco products, importers and exporters, carriers and retailers are large and are little good because they contribute to the introduction of order. The law provides that an undertaking or undertaking may deal with improving the quality of tobacco in the list, buying, processing and traffic of processed tobacco only if it has the appropriate rooms for buying, accommodation, processing and classification of tobacco, processing equipment and laboratory for the analysis and determination of tobacco quality. Of course, he can have a contract concluded with the reference lab. The production of tobacco products may be carried out by an undertaking or undertaking only if it is authorised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of a proposal from the Tobacco Agency. Getting permission precedes participation in a public tender. The conditions for participation in the tender are sharp, currently met only by the tobacco industry from Nis, but this way the small producers are excluded, as well as those who intend to enter this business by packing cigarettes, avoiding customs and thus trying to eventually obtain less excise duties on "domestic digarette". Trade in large tobacco products also requires a license. There are currently about 40 large-scale companies in Serbia's territory. By adopting the tobacco law, the number will be reduced and 5 - 10 wholesalers will remain on the market for the next two years. The number of stamps and cigarettes will be reduced. There are currently about 140 of them in our country and 35 in Croatia. This wide range of cigarettes is due to a large number of importers, who from abroad deliver various exotic brands of cigarettes. The establishment of a tobacco agency, which will organise and conduct public tenders, establish the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions, propose the issue of a license for trade in large and imports, issue a marketing authorisation for small tobacco products. Ladies and gentlemen, this law offers order in the production of raw tobacco, processing, production of cigarettes, imports, exports, wholesale and retail. The possibility of illegal business in this branch will be reduced. That's why I invite you to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25619	The People's MP Vladimir Garčević has the word, followed by MP Branimir Trajkovic. The time available for your parliamentary group is one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25620	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I expected this assembly to address the issues of Bor, Majdanpek, farmers, to establish working groups that will visit them and to see how these people help, along with the government and independent from the parties. But it's not hard to regulate cigarette smuggling, because I'm pretty close to the border, people say like this -- it's been smuggled in trucks, and now it's being smuggled in cars. I'll say the method: the train goes to Romania, the Shid stands out and remains a car, does not pass through Romania as a transit. Gentlemen, if we take that 30%, so to speak, a cigarette doesn't go into Serbia's budget, then pay the customs officers right, we'll find people who do their job right and can stop smuggling. There are other ways: that cigarette importers pay customs at the entrance to the country regardless of what cargo is passing through, and when they get out of our country, if the car passes, if the bus passes, that part of the money will return to them. Therefore, the Serbian government has the opportunity to stop smuggling and bring it down to a minimum, and that means using it for something useful. As for health, he's getting less and less taken care of. As much as tobacco is harmful, I wouldn't talk about it, I'll have opportunities later, but what's important, no agency, where there's a set of ministers and there's no others, can solve the issue of work, but only the administration will increase, and the results will remain as they are. I ask the Minister and the Government of Serbia to consider the possibility of paying a tax on entry, and whoever has a transit when it comes out in the second part, and thank God we are going towards the modernisation of banks, to get that money back. There will be no smuggling then, and the money will be in Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25621	The word is by MP Branimir Trajkovic, followed by MP Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25622	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the tobacco law entered the assembly procedure on June 24th 2002, two weeks after the violent kidnapping of DSS deputies in the assembly. This assembly was then not working until November 5th, and during that time many laws awaited, such as the grant law, foreign investment agency law, export acceleration law, denationalisation law, etc. The Republic government probably didn't think Parliament was necessary at the time, but we're going back to this law now. A person who has read this law in more detail can easily conclude that the gravity is placed on the market and the processing of tobacco. The law deals most with the agency, so maybe it should've called him - the agency law. In the second part of the law are criminal provisions, it's from the point of view of financial discipline for praise, and a little care has been taken about growing, the varieties of tobacco, seeds, destruction, but it may be the task of some other law. Since Mr. Vesenov is here, it might be good if he told us a little bit more about this subject, specifically about growing tobacco. However, the obligation to buy domestic tobacco was to be taken into account. This law obliges the processor to buy 2,000 tonnes of domestic tobacco. If our production is somewhere around 20,000 tons of tobacco, that data's a little off-limits. Processors should buy at least 70% of their domestic production, as regulated in our neighborhood. Why do I say that? Because this branch in agriculture is very weak, no commitments are paid, so it would be necessary to sort it out in some way. In any case, the need for this and this law clearly exists. However, while observing the proposal for this law from the point of view of the upcoming privatisation of the tobacco industry from Nis, as well as the tobacco combination Vranje, it should be pointed out that this law regulates the area of tobacco, both processing and sales, and enables faster sales of these highly profitable companies. The question remains why the Republic Assembly did not deal with the DSS proposal to set up a tobacco polling committee just over a year ago. That is why the suspicions of the tobacco mafia with all those in power in Montenegro and Serbia will remain with our citizens. If you remember, DSS MPs have suggested that all listed foreign newspapers and the prominent Western-German news outlets, which claimed that Mil Djukanovic, Zoran Djindjic, was involved in cigarette dealings. At that time, no one from the authorities has made a precise statement, and the Assembly has not accepted the formation of a polling commission that would likely disprove such a suspicion. If we are talking about smuggling in Serbia today, Mr Djelic in his statement yesterday mentioned a figure of 100m euros or about 6 billion dinars, how much Serbia's budget is losing at the annual level. Mr. Minister, you said yesterday that the budget is losing about 6 billion dinars or about 100 million euros at an annual level. However, is it possible in the emerging state to create a hard border with Montenegro, whether it is possible to prevent cigarette smuggling, both from the republic and Kosovo. Cigarettes pass through the mountains, and God damn it, the booties. Something's coming up, something's coming up, but the good part's coming up. Smuggling will be all the way up until Mila Djukanovic is a significant source of finance. The other day in the paper, I read that the best knower of smuggling flows is a certain Mr. Wolf Miniæ, who is in prison today, probably not to talk much. Did he get out? Great, that's why I don't want to talk anymore. The production of tobacco as well as the production of sugar represents strategic production, i.e. a strategic product for one country. Unlike tobacco, the Republic government made an effort to sell sugars first, at least the ones they do, to pass the sugar law. It hasn't been delivered yet, but I guess it'll be in the next few months. Since the need for sugar in our environment is about a million tonnes a year, it is no wonder that they are known concerts, such as Zucker, German, are very interested in paying even up to 80m euros for a sugar canteen. Except they're not the financemen of the Democratic Party. If we go back to the tobacco, what exactly did this law want? If the aim is to place tobacco production and domestic market traffic in legal frameworks and if public revenue obligations based on the production and sale of tobacco products are met, then the DSS welcomes it. If this law improves the quality of domestic tobacco production and consumer protection in terms of health care, then this law corresponds to the DSS concept. Let me just point out that all objections from Mr. Mladen Rankovic, our shadow minister, to this law, have been incorporated into this proposal. We have tried, by amendments to this bill, some parts more precisely to determine; let's say, in Article 4 of the obligation to protect the health of young people from tobacco. In this Article, we added another correction in which it is said - any advertising of tobacco products and tobacco products producers will be fined for individuals up to 500,000 dinars, and for legal persons 5 million dinars. This is in line with the regulations in force in Europe. The second part of our amendments refers to tightening the criminal policy for the offenders of this law. Mr Minister, there will be only one question left open, which is why the excise stamp does not contain the price of this product, which is usually the case in the countries of the European Union. Finally, the DSS will vote in favour of this law in principle, and after the adoption of our amendments and the law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25623	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25624	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after you abolished yesterday's country in which we have been in so many years, Djindjic and Kostunica before all, today you are giving us some interreforming laws, according to Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic. All the reform laws, all the wonders, the people getting harder and worse, but they don't care much about it. Today, Minister Djelic was talking about how there was a mob, some who worked with cigarettes in the former government, so that it would not apply to anyone from the SRS, I urge him to tell who these people are. I know the names and names of these people, and let me mention it now, and if any of us are involved in this, let an angel say it in the face, and not that anyone can think about how it applies to honest people, even though we know we had nothing to do with it. As far as the law we're supposed to pass today could be called not tobacco law, but agency law. Another agency is established under the government of the Republic of Serbia's patronage. The government of the Republic of Serbia grabs all the power in its hands. After taking monopoly over oil and oil trade, we now have the same case with tobacco and the agency is established not because of the organisation and implementation of a tender for the production of tobacco products, but mainly because of the second part, which is to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the execution of tobacco trade. That's the point. When Minister Djelic says - we have incomparably less smuggling than in previous years, it turns out that they have calculated exactly how many cigarettes are smuggled; if they know it, then the question is, so the cocoas know who they are, who they are today, who they are smuggling tobacco. Minister Djelic today, thanks to the "fast" cigarettes, says they have made one sale on the market; otherwise I am a non-smoker, but I brought a box of these cigarettes: there is no one on the box - who makes them; there is no - where they are processed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25625	People's MP, this could count on product advertising and please stop...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25626	Don't, don't advertise the product, I'm talking the worst about this product, unlike your minister who advertised that product. This cigarette doesn't say who makes this cigarette, it doesn't say where it's processed. It's being processed in DIN and DIV...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25627	People's MP, you are a public figure of reputation and influence and your commitment is to be in direct transmission; a picture with a product in your hands means a message to potential customers, and I ask you to concentrate on the tobacco law, and the item you have as a box is removed from the frame.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25628	Please be correct and don't count on me this minute at the time of the discussion, you'll take this minute away from me, I'm talking about something that's very serious and I'm not advertising the product. So, it's not here, it doesn't say who's making it. And why did I say that? It's produced by DIN and DIV, and we're going to get to Pecconi and who all of Peconi is funding. The products are processed and packaged by DIV and DIN and do so in twice the amount of other cigarettes that say they are manufacturers of these cigarettes, DIVs and DINs. Two to three dinars charge for the processing of one pack of cigarettes, and 30 dinars are sold each. That tobacco is imported from South America and Asia. The peconies are importing it because -- if two and a half million hells are spent a day, no less of these cigarettes that we're talking about -- count on how much profit this Peconia and other people from the top of the government doing the job with it. Because it's not about any market, it's not about any serious business, it's about the monopoly position, it's about banditism, it's about hitting television advertising these cigarettes all day long, and it's about the money pouring out without any control in private pockets. Now, let's see who Peconi's funding. Have the minister come out and say who he's funding. I know the SRS doesn't finance, and you know that some parties in power, as well as others, are obviously funding. So let's see who and how he's funding it. Let's see what Petar Matic does. Do you know who he is? You don't know? You know. Then, Mr. Minister, come out and tell me what problems you had after the Bat and Japan Tabaka conflict, when the state officials of some foreign countries came and asked for receptions, so you didn't want to receive one, so the second time you had to receive them because of the many problems you had to explain your actions, allowing the Bat of Canet Subotic, Stanko Subotic, Canet Zappac - when he doesn't know what to do to file charges against Serbian radicals, and above all Vojislav Seselj - monopoly. There is nothing more there than more state apparatus, more bureaucracy, 11 board members, seven members with the chairman of the supervisory board, the director of the agency -- it is the most profitable job today in Serbia. It's more lucrative to be the director of the agency than to be, say, what Vojislav Kostunica was until yesterday. He decides everything: how much BAT will he get, Deetrade, Dalvich, whatever you want, but in any case, Stanko Subotic Canet's companies. That's why it's not going to come under anyone's control, but the government's representatives, the ones who are ordered by the government, will say - you have the right to trade, and you have no right to trade; then you'll have an ad, a day-long commercial on all the TVs for these cigarettes, and I'm going to be the president of the National Assembly or the chairman of the National Assembly to warn you because of the fact that you and such cigarettes are being advertised. In addition to strengthening the bureaucratic apparatus, besides taking more funds from the budget, I don't see how this way, by creating an agency, will contribute to more financial resources coming into Serbia's budget. I hope so, and I wish I were wrong, but unfortunately so far the experience and the work of the DOS government shows it, and even today's words by Minister Djelic, who praised this kind of campaign and that kind of breakthrough on the whole Serbian market. I thank you again, and for those who don't know what's going on in the tobacco market, what's going on in our country, let them read Dr Vojislav Seselj's book "Stanko Sobotic Cane-Zabac, the king of the tobacco mafia". You wouldn't laugh, it would be educational for you ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25629	The MP and this last one is product advertising, so I'm right when I tell you it's wrong. The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25630	Madam Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on a few remarks. First of all, as far as this law is concerned, I said he was inter-resorial. Maybe it came to you as an interreformal. That lapusus wasn't there, I remember what I said, and what's in the stenogram we'll see. So, he's inter-faithful because, as we can see, and it was in the opening statement, as a pure agricultural law here, really, what many people have noticed for this speaker, he has a strong fiscal component, he has these aspects of trade, so he's inter-tasking. We are not proposing inter-reform laws, but reform laws, at least that's what we're trying to do. As for some other remarks, the company or mark mentioned, I remember well that I said in the opening statement, I guess it was a third or fourth word, that I didn't want to make any commercials, because of course it wasn't a question, but since there was a lot of talk about that company and those brands, I just wanted to explain about some approvals that were allegedly received and I don't think it's a very special commercial. On the contrary, I said that one negative thought was given to the possibility of making some cigarettes available in neighbouring Bulgaria, so I can't see what kind of advertising it is. Secondly, I found the fact on the market, there was no advertising, nor was it in my job description to advertise anyone, and at least the cigarette manufacturers; because, I guess, that's the first thing said in the opening statement, the cigarette is a poison that kills, shortens lives, and I think it's desirable statistics to see a reduction in tobacco consumption in our country, especially among young generations. I'd like to add a few elements around this agency. The agency isn't here to be some hard bureaucratic apparatus. Whoever carefully read the law could conclude that members of the board of directors, who came from the government, were explicitly written in one position, did not receive any compensation for their work. So, there is no regulation yet, although such a bill is being drawn up, but then there will be a proposal in the form of a conflict of interest between public and private. We'll see things that are possible and that aren't possible. That's a question for a further debate. It is interesting to find that this law does not determine who should be allowed, and who should not be involved in tobacco, but leaves the same arches for all and the competent authorities should determine that these conditions are met. That way we'll have a professionalization of this sector and avoid any suspicious intermediaries, some phantom firms. They knew that in recent years, unfortunately in the last two years, they had met small conditions to deal with this business, to do two jobs, and to disappear. In this way, only those who meet strict technical and financial conditions and if they meet them, and not by choice, or by those persons or by those companies, become more responsible participants in this market; only those who, in various elements of this process, want to go on a long period of time and who have something to lose if they break the law; in this way, we will have a much more orderly industry. There's no censorship in the sense that anyone who can't, who can't, who doesn't have a choice, doesn't have any political will, but just wants this law to make this industry better. As far as political organisations are concerned, it is worth realizing that today we have two laws -- this is not already in the domain of a law that is on the agenda today -- but I can say that in a new draft law on the financing of political organisations, which I hope will be sent very quickly as a proposal to this home, there is a provision that all donors or political organisations' finances should be declared and there will have to be a financial report on it. One such draft will be found in front of this esteemed home this year, and hopefully as soon as possible, so that the regulations are gone today and all speculation is possible. As I do not want to participate in any advertising, and at least some cigarette manufacturers, I do not want to participate in any speculation. Finally, when it comes to this case and when it comes to this industry, of course everything about tobacco in our citizens' eyes is suspicious, but I can say that the best dam is facts and results: in 2002 15 billion, there was some speculation that this percentage, which is 8% of this year's budget, was collected in various ways in the legal traffic of cigarettes; more than 70 people were deprived of freedom because they were in some smuggling chains; a few dozen criminal reports were filed against these people who were engaged in illegal activities. Finally, we entered what was exactly this sloppy, insufficiently professional regulation, at first sight satisfactory, so if one company is properly registered in court and if it submits some papers, my God, it can be issued that excise stamp and so we came into the real chaos, where many companies, some of them disappeared, supplied with these excise stamps. Last year, the Government of the Republic of Serbia established an extremely strict procedure, which was most pleased by those who wanted to be legally and legitimately engaged in this activity, that the state and our citizens did not suffer the consequences of illegal activities in this industry, that no one could really be in charge of the excise stamp, that the excise stamp in some reasonable period, which is one of the things that you were talking about here, could possibly be converted into a fiscal stamp, so that its borrowing also means in the very beginning of payment. However, the fiscal stamp requires very important and large resources, especially for some alcoholic drink producers and domestic ones, so that it is not applicable at this time, but is being considered. We can also think about the possibility that the price itself should be known, not at administrative, but at the decision of the manufacturer, importer or trader in the event that it is a legal person of the importer; that in this way the price would be determined, so that any lower price would be a cause for suspicion, in trade or anywhere. There are even some amendments here, which have been filed in that direction, and we can consider that. That's where I'd like to conclude. This is not inter-reformal, this is an extremely reform law. This is a law that sheds even more light on what our citizens want. I get, like many others, a large number of memos, where our citizens want to get more and more and the better they know what's going on in this industry. In this way and through these agencies, we will have a collegiate interdepartmental decision-making method, where it will no longer be possible for one person or a narrow circle of people to decide on important things in this industry. So any decision of any importance in this domain must come to light, in the sun of the public. Those who make them will therefore have to have and what good reasons, prove the process, prove the transparency of the procedure, in order to defend those decisions. I want to thank this occasion again to all those who have had a significant part in this in the last two years, including you. Thanks especially to those fiscal provisions, and this specific excise duty was the right thing to do, so the right thing to do was to cover what was in the gray areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25631	Bratoljub Janackovic has the word, followed by MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25632	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a great tyranny of habits and so much so that it is placed in a natural need. One of the habits that causes tyranny over the human organism is smoking or enjoying tobacco smoke, to be more precise and clearer. This tyranny causes deadly consequences and is called a nicotine epidemic. In our country, according to some estimates, between 40% and 45% of the population are dedicated smokers, which is what we hold, unfortunately, a decisive second place in Europe with a tendency to be very quickly at the very top of this infamous pyramid. Even more devastating is the fact that, in the middle of the high school population, as far as I know, 60% of high school students smoke actively. If it is added that by 2000, about 17,000 tonnes of cigarettes were scattered annually on the black market in Serbia annually, and in legal flows only 7,000 tonnes, the situation is even worse. Today, Serbia's budget is estimated to be damaged by around 100m euros over a year, as much as cigarettes are broken down on the illegal market today. Such a situation per citizen of Serbia has been twice fatal: if we volunteer to poison and kill ourselves, well, a good part of these funds instead of going into the health funds budget ends up in registers and pockets of criminal cartels. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my knowledge, a high percentage of public health costs is concerned with the treatment of diseases that are directly due to the consumption of tobacco smoke. In my opinion, the best drug to stop smoking and thus reduce health costs is an increase in the price of cigarettes through special taxis designed to support smoking prevention. The greatest results, the experience shows, were achieved just this way. But if you raise prices, there's an increase in legal and cigarette smuggling and criminal cartel profits. The largest cigarette manufacturers are also involved in illegal market penetration. The European Union is now being sued by the largest cigarette manufacturers that has been thoroughly accused of smuggling into our and European markets. There's the state. It provides stable fiscal revenues for health-damaging consumption. You need to protect health and prevent smoking, secure fiscal revenues for the country, ensure that large cigarette manufacturers are present so that they do not illegally enter your market, and on the other hand to ensure the survival of domestic brand cigarettes and prevent smuggling. Indeed, complex and difficult questions that cannot be so easily defined, let alone answers for them. The new democracy is to stop smoking through an increase in the price of cigarettes and through a special fee would raise the price of cigarettes by 100 per cent. How can it be done when smuggling is threatened as a legal consequence, as a system of merged courts in a still not well-organised state as Serbia is today. The second measure is to introduce special taxes on the profits of producers, importers and distributors, so that part of the above average profits would not be converted into profits or payments from monopolies in production, import or distribution, but rather to end up in special health funds and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Although we understand the government's intention to support the finance minister's efforts to end most of these revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget, although we understand the need and welcome the state's intention to regulate these issues regarding the conditions of access to the cigarette market both in production and in transport, we still have some dilemmas and we are not sure that all solutions are proposed by this law of rights and good. These rules favour large initial investments and practically world cartels and owners of world licenses. It's been fetishized by the production of cigarettes, as if it were the production of a space shuttle. Brands and recipes are important in production. The state takes it upon itself to resolve the competition issue by preventing small companies from being created because they are more difficult to control. We understand and accept that, too. The big ones used to be small. Why would we protect the market on behalf of Philip Morris or the big cartels, and that's just to justify the inability of the state or the fact that they're just smuggling. After all, we have passed laws that will make it impossible for such phantom companies to exist. We accept the principles of competition and that everyone depending on the size of the production must purchase, purchase and domestic tobacco. The second question I wanted to point out concerns the European Union, which introduced strict criteria for the quantity of tar in production. Those standards don't apply to us now, in my knowledge. And for standards to be respected, special technology is needed. In two years, we may be forced to comply with these standards, but then the manufacturer's lobby will require delays in applying those standards, because it will argue that large funds are needed for new technologies. In the end, the essential measure to stop smoking is the increase, and that large, the price of cigarettes. A country that can apply that, it runs a real policy in tobacco production. I would support the efforts of the finance minister, a little while ago, that here is a fundamental problem of how, in fact, strict conditions, to prevent what happens to be called goods and products, and essentially poison, from being as attractive to our younger populations as possible. We should make our contribution to the healing of the nation in such a way that the active policy would have taken all together to ensure that the monster of the use of tobacco smoke is reduced to a measure similar to civilised, normal countries in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25633	The word has a folk MP Milan Stankovic, followed by a national envoy, Dragoljub Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25634	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was last passed in 1994 and this law, we agree, mainly in tobacco production. This proposed law is, in some ways, more comprehensive, because besides production, it also deals with the fiscal part, i.e. tobacco and tobacco products. When I say tobacco products, I mean cigarettes first, because mostly everybody agrees. The 1994 law protected farmers, or tobacco producers, in particular in Article 16 of that still valid law, which allowed these agricultural producers to object if their tobacco produced on their parcel was not properly classified. The proposed law is, in some ways, more comprehensive and also applies to agricultural producers, or tobacco producers. However, it leaves them entirely at the mercy of tobacco factory, or cigarette factory, to decide at what price and to which class that tobacco will be classified. As a reason for the adoption of this law, the government states that it wants to put total production and traffic of tobacco into legal flows. We agree that every country wants to put tobacco and tobacco production and transport into legal flows because it represents a significant revenue for the budget, but an interesting question has been raised from the government's reasoning -- what was the previous two years, since this government has been in power and since it's been working, have tobacco and tobacco and cigarette flows been in illegal flows? In addition, the state wants to pass a law that will allow more tobacco production, as only increased tobacco production and exports of tobacco and tobacco products can bring certain material prosperity to the whole country and the people. Unfortunately, this proposed law does not favour the production of cigarettes and the export of cigarettes in any way, but rather the opposite. Some members of this law can lead to the closure of some factories, even tobacco factories in Vranj. Under this bill, to produce cigarettes, a factory needs to produce 2.5 billion pieces of cigarettes annually and buy 2,000 tonnes of tobacco. The tobacco factory in Vranj, as far as I'm aware, buys out 1,900 tons of tobacco annually. If the letter of the law were strictly applied, the factory would not be able to carry out its work from next year. There is no question about the market economy in this law. All of this can be seen from several members of the proposed law. First, Article 23 says the government is deciding to give permission to an undertaking, or enterprise, on the basis of the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 22 of this Act, and on a proposal from the agency. What's it gonna look like in practice? The agency will realise that a particular factory has met the conditions for the production of cigarettes and will then forward the proposal to the government, and the government itself will decide whether or not to grant a permit to do the job. That's exactly how this member of the law predicts it. It is further regulated by this law: In order for someone to become a wholesaler, there must be a warehouse with a space in which they will be able to accommodate 30 tonnes of cigarettes, to pay into the Republic's budget five million dinars for the licence and to pay a deposit of 30 million dinars for the five years. These two members of the law, in terms of obtaining a licence and the production of cigarettes, clearly show that the government's intention is not to market an economy, but to protect large capital, especially foreign ones, because, in addition to everything else, so-called. recommended cigarettes prices. Thus, Article 33 states that the importer determines the recommended retail prices and informs the Agency accordingly. What does that mean, recommended prices? Will someone conduct the cigarette market, or the price of cigarettes? As cake cream, this government is asking the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to give it the discretionary right to give and withdraw licences for the production of cigarettes, permits for the trade in cigarettes and licences. Article 23 and Article 29 discusses the granting of a permit for the production of cigarettes, and Articles 25 and 32 on the withdrawal of a trading authorisation to a large, i.e. the withdrawal of a licence. At the same time, citizens are placed in an unequal and discriminatory position. When a licence is to be withdrawn, it is sufficient, in addition to the other, to punish the manufacturer of cigarettes or the trader by an inadmissible verdict; when the Government is to return the licence or licence, it is necessary to have the judgment suspended by law. We at the SPS believe that this is unfair and that citizens are in an inferior position to the state. Such a discretionary right given to someone, and especially to a government whose hands are money, can be very dangerous. I can only remind you that this National Assembly has given certain discretionary rights to the president of the National Assembly, and how dangerous it is for many MPs to see it on their own skin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25635	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, there are two or several reasons for me to talk about the tobacco law, given my profession. The first reason - these days, the Ministry of Health has begun a major action against smoking. Although there have been some ministry actions before, it all ends quickly. Second reason-- I'm an MP from Nis. I think that's enough reason to talk about it. The third reason - I heard it here, but I will paraphrase Beckovic - told me one man that he who controls the tobacco and oil market, he and rule the world, and he also looks to the state." As a doctor, I'm certainly against smoking. After all, it has been proven that more than 42 ingredients are in a carcinogen tobacco, and I'm not talking about toxic. Everything today seems to me like we're talking about some smuggling law here, not tobacco law. Ma'am, this is where he throws himself at me. If anyone wants, they can come talk to me later. I think the executive power has the ability to stop the smuggling. There's the police, there's customs and we shouldn't be talking about it. Here is the excise product that brings high profits and full budget. I won't talk about it for long. If that were the case, there's a short history, and I told the minister, and I'll tell you a little bit. King Milan is still his so-called king. The ninth address, which is the ninth member of the law, made a decision. When Serbia became independent at the Berlin Congress, it was obliged to build a railway. concessions for railways and tobacco are given to foreign companies. Soon it fell apart, and then people remembered and returned the concessions, especially for tobacco, and soon they made a railroad. If it's tobacco, I don't know. What I'm saying is that this excise product is full of budget and the government needs to deal with it. It's not about the government itself filling the budget. She has to make sure that her people are busy. Now, if we've heard that it's almost 600,000 or 900,000 people, and I've heard that from experts in Nis, related in some way to tobacco production, for tobacco trade, then we have to take care of that. I won't be long on that. I'll say first that nothing's new, this is about the agency, nothing's new. Your agency is like the monopoly board, which was in the Kingdom. That is, but there is another thing; when you were talking about transparency, why didn't you suggest in Article 6(4) instead of "the agency's headquarters is in Belgrade" that it stands in Nis or Vranj? There's smokers and there's tobacco producers. So there's some kind of suspicion, and I don't want to talk about it. What I told you today, and what it's going to stay on here, is that this law looks nicely wrapped, it may even have a bow, but there's no development, it doesn't give the possibility of development. That's what Mr. Mamula was talking about, so he said, no price protection for tobacco producers, no contract on that. I'm going to say here that in the definition of some concepts here, there's no such thing as the idea that there's an example. The tobacco institute. Is there a tobacco institute somewhere in Serbia, if it's an important raw material in a fiscal sense, not to mention something else - no. There's something a little bit started in the factory in Nis. But that also involves hiring highly educated people, from molecular biologists, technologists, if you want a medic, to develop our seeds. We are known for the production of seeds in other branches of agriculture (there is Mr. Minister, it is not my resort). So it's not in the process area of development, and let's see if there's any development around processing. Everything seems to me to be going after the team here, and I'm afraid that the sales around it will somehow destroy its own production and the processing of tobacco. Article 22 The law says this: "The right to participate in a public tender also has an enterprise, i.e. an entrepreneur, who submits a detailed project and with a bank guarantee... ". So who better to submit than British American Tobacco or Philip Morris, they'll give the best projects. But there are conditions he has to meet, which is that he has a storage space, that he has a lab. However, Article 15 states that he can rent all that. What it means - he can make a project, get a guarantee bank, rent in a year, destroy your production and get out. So is it development - please, it's not development. By my estimate, it's a tendency to sell something, and it's already ordered a strategic partner. In all, this law does not have a strategy for developing such an important branch that fills the budget. It doesn't matter to me, on the contrary, but it matters to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25637	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25638	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are hearing from the Government, or the Minister of Finance, as usual, that it is a reform law, structural and fundamental change and that the absence of such a law has allowed, as he says, people of the former regime, and he is very often using those words, that large sums of money are being put away in their pockets. And from one DOS representative, we even heard that by passing this law, a new billion euros will enter the Republic of Serbia's budget. But, ladies and gentlemen, this government has been in power for the third year, and this law did not exist. If it's such a good law and if it could bring a billion euros a year, so where are those two billion that were lost because there was no law like this, and you say the charges are much higher. What is revolutionaryly passed by this law -- it gives us a commitment in Article 22 that one who deals with the production of cigarettes in Serbia must buy annually, i.e. to use 2,000 tonnes of homemade tobacco. But we have two cigarette factories, and the production of tobacco is much higher. He says the foreign capital investment, by opening new factories, will lead to increased consumption of our tobacco and will satisfy tobacco producers in Serbia. But not the Ministers, the one who opens on the side of the factory won't use domestic tobacco, and what you wrote in the law, so it can be amended and amended by law, as well as by amending the Labour Act in no time. I claim that no foreign cigarette manufacturer will use domestic tobacco. It wasn't even when it was produced "cant" in the tobacco industry in Nis, nor when other cigarettes were produced in Vranje, not to mention names, so as not to be advertising. Article 35 is also revolutionary; he says, "The approval for the retail sale of tobacco products is given for a period of one year." That license is paid for 3,000 dinars. Imagine, then, how much is paid to the local self-government to rent space, to highlight the label on the company, how much tax is paid, and everything that burdens these small entrepreneurs. On the other hand, this agency, which was founded, will support taxpayers' money from the Republika Srpska budget, so the money of those who will pay for the performance of these activities. I don't know how this government has any more rights to establish new and new agencies for every segment of social and economic life, which are all funded by the budget. Furthermore, look at the composition of the board of directors - regardless of what the minister said would not be paid for membership on the board of directors, and I don't need to care - there is enough for a month on the board of directors to give public tenders consent to certain producers. Are you going to tell me that everyone in the tender meets the conditions for the processing of tobacco will be given permission to deal with tobacco processing? He won't, Minister. 100 manufacturers can come in - will you give everyone a license? Well, then that would be something that doesn't prevent competition. I am sure that, as so far, some will be privileged, and some will be blackmailed to do some favors in order to get the right to deal with tobacco processing. Finally, let me ask you - what does it mean that the tobacco agency is coordinating the activities of the authorities and organisations in the area of combating illegal traffic of tobacco products? Well, that's what some other authorities, the authorities of the MUP, the tax authorities, the authorities of the financial police and those involved. What's the agency doing? And yet to tell me that the main coordinator in this will be Stanko Subotić - Cane and that I trust you all. But as you predicted the Agency's board of directors would be both the Police Minister and the Minister of Agriculture, I would not be surprised if Stanko Subotic - Cane were here, and I would not be surprised that Lutra would become the main carrier of tobacco processing and traffic in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25639	The word has a Minister of Agriculture and Water Management in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, smoking is harmful to our health and by joining our government's action I want to say it here, but as long as smoking is one of the vices and there is a huge economic activity of production, processing and traffic of tobacco, then, of course, it is normal to put this economic business under the auspices of the law, in the way that we are currently at our disposal. This is not an excessively large reform law, but it is a fact that many new elements in behaviour, not only of our producers, have occurred, but at the same time of all traders and traffickers, which is necessary to cover this new law. Some analyses say that we may be others in Europe, but you have already noticed that there are only Turks in front of us, and this is saying that this passion will last for a long time and it is good to try to regulate everything that can be done by law, that we hold this activity as much as possible not only under some economic, but also other forms of control. Unfortunately, we are dealing with the production of tobacco by the poorest farmers in southeastern Serbia, in the western parts of Serbia, in Macva, in Srem, in Bacak, as well; as a rule, tobacco production takes place on relatively small parcels, it is almost impossible to find a producer who sows and distributes tobacco to more than two or three hectares, usually very small areas. The tobacco production deals with many of the most unfortunate people who have moved to our side, coming from other countries for various reasons, for past events, since 1990, so we say, that tobacco production is not only economic activity, but also a concern for tobacco producers and it enters the domain of social policy. This law brings a few newspapers. Perhaps the smallest newspaper is that all tobacco products will have to bear the mark that smoking is harmful to health, and so far only cigarettes have, so boxes and packages, and from now on all other tobacco products will have to wear it. That's certainly the least reason to pass the law. One of the newspapers, I see that some MPs have commented, is that we want to protect domestic production with this tobacco law. So far, domestic tobacco producers have not had to buy a single kilo of tobacco, and under this law, we will see how it goes in production, indeed none of the producers will be able to develop their production without buying at least 2,000 tonnes of domestic tobacco annually. The trouble with our domestic tobacco is that it does not meet in many ways the standards that have long been applied in other territories. But that shouldn't be a problem, if we assume big manufacturers will worry about it, and some of them have announced that they will and we believe that it is their interest. Because the big manufacturer who develops cigarette production here and other products will not be able to maintain the standard of his cigarettes and other tobacco products achieved in other territories, unless he brings in certain seeds, new technology and knowledge in tobacco production. Hence, this provision, which requires the manufacturer of tobacco products to buy at least 2,000 tonnes of tobacco annually on the domestic market, will mean the manufacturer and the obligation, if he wants to maintain the quality of tobacco products, to invest all knowledge in seeds and technology. As far as agricultural production, or tobacco production, is concerned, that is why this law is not necessary, because tobacco production in our country is as free as any other agricultural product. In this sense, therefore, this law does not bring any news, but more brings news in the fact that it will force processors to buy domestic tobacco, which means that they invest in improving quality. We don't produce more than 11,000 tonnes of tobacco annually, our average production per hectare is somewhere between 1,200 and 2,000 kilos. We, at least in the last year, did not sow, disintegrate production to more than 7,180 hectares, and predict that this year we will sow less, but that we will sow more quality tobacco species and that production in this sense will be greater. At this point, we have about 5,000 tons of "berley" on supplies, which is a type of tobacco that is produced with much more ease than others, but at the same time this type of tobacco is obviously not needed in the cigarette industry and other tobacco products; it is a bunch of problems among our farmers, so among tobacco producers. We intend to withdraw, as Government, a new move in tobacco production. As long as it smokes, it will be necessary, given the economic activity, profits, the interests of the state to tax, to regulate this area. We intend to make a new move in this production, better than all the ones we've pulled so far, and so far we've been going with tobacco premiums of about 40,000 dinars per hectare. This year's campaign would be a minimum premium. We intend to raise premiums for the production of quality tobacco to 74,000 dinars per hectare; this means that already more than 2,000 marks or incomparably more than 1,000 euros, and this should be an additional stimulant that we have better tobacco production in the country and that we are easier to meet those standards that will require tobacco processors in our country. It's a move we'll take, he'll be published very soon. That won't hit the budget, since we have budgets for this kind of move, up to 370 million dinars. I think the poorest producers, but also the most serious, will welcome this move. We want to enter another additional element, with all the certainty, in relation to the entire production of tobacco in our country, which is to throw out those who often cheated on farmers, ordered production, ordered tobacco, and at the same time when they took it, they didn't pay it. We want to bring in one newspaper and we will very quickly announce that the organisers of tobacco production in the country, through which the tobacco premiums will go, above all, can be the manufacturers of cigarettes that will export tobacco and that should bring additional security. Meanwhile, although we did not participate in the conclusion of a contract between primary manufacturers and processors, the government did everything, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, to achieve favourable solutions concerning the debts of individual tobacco producers, so that we can expect this problem to be resolved entirely within the next few days. In the end, although smoking is harmful to health, I urge you to vote for this law, not only in principle, but in whole later terms, because as long as this passion remains, there will be a need for such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25641	The word has a folk MP Marina Stamenkovic, followed by a National MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25642	Dear People's MPs, the draft tobacco law was finally put on the agenda, although it was addressed by the government to the Assembly on 24 June 2002. Duvan has strategic importance in the process of production, processing and trade in large and small. The importance of the tobacco law is so much that it should have been passed much earlier. The smuggling of tobacco has become very lucrative in recent years, and in a short time huge money has been earned, of course, by monopolies, by individuals who held and controlled the black market, smuggling across all borders and, unfortunately, with the blessing of the state. Mr. Minister Djelic, there is a trade in Serbia where I personally bought "davidoff lights" without a stamp. The tobacco law introduces a tobacco agency, with the aim of organising and implementing a public tender, in order to obtain a license to produce all tobacco products. The draft tobacco law sees another objective of the law -- to create conditions for privatisation. Why do I say that? I come from Vranj, a folk MP from Vranj, where the DIV has been mentioned so far, whose experts kept asking me when the tobacco law would be. Of course, I didn't know when to tell them, but I felt by their reaction that it should happen. It didn't happen even when they were expecting it, but there were probably some advances and some agreements by the Ministry of Privatisation, which led them to be interested in passing this law. Thus, the introduction of a tobacco agency sees the goal of creating conditions for privatisation. The DSS is essentially not against privatisation, but the delay in passing this law is largely hampering the reform of the government of the Republic of Serbia. There is concern that despite the adoption of this law, if privatisation continues as is done in certain sugar, cement and other strategic enterprises, such privatisation damages the economy, and in this case, if so, the tobacco industry, as something still healthy and sustainable. In particular, the DIV is still working. By the way, in the entire mile of Pcinj County, where the DIV belongs, I simply have to mention that the other branches of the economy have failed. Just to point out the leather industry, the "Kostana" factory no longer works, then the textile industry "JUMKO" also doesn't work; simply, privatisation didn't even come to the door of the Pcin County and these giants that used to be, and we know why they failed, but I'm using this opportunity to save at least what's healthy in these industries. The result of all of it is of course rivers of fired workers and again opportunities for smuggling, for the black market, and of course the social programme does not exist in a valid way. The companies involved in the production of cigarettes must have a fully installed capacity to prepare tobacco, make cigarettes and pack. The whole process of production should be carried out in the country, so that cigarettes are classified in the category of domestic cigarettes in the payment of excise duties and taxes. Cigarettes partially produced in the country, and the preparation of tobacco is done outside the country, cannot be included in domestic cigarettes. The draft tobacco law also predicts that a cigarette manufacturer must buy at least 2,000 tonnes of tobacco produced in Serbia's territory. This is wrong, because the production capacity is not the same, so 2,000 tonnes of domestic tobacco in DIV will represent 60% of the total amount of tobacco required on an annual basis, resulting in the production of cigarettes from lower class groups, and in particular DIN, that percentage is lower - 10 to 15%. This is one factory favored to produce more quality varieties of cigarettes and has the possibility of uninterrupted imports of tobacco, and the other is asphyxiated by lower-quality cigarettes, which also draws the difference in the ability to obtain profits. The amount of tobacco purchased from Serbia should be percentage-linked to the amount of cigarettes produced annually by factories. The proposal is 40%, which is Hungary's proposal, of the total amount of tobacco used to produce cigarettes, planned and achieved over a year. This has resulted in constant production of tobacco in the country, with a tendency to increase cigarette production. It should also be noted that there are over 100,000 families in the country, or 400,000 people, from tobacco production. With regard to obtaining a licence, the conditions should be defined so that the manufacturer who already has the tradition of production can do so. There may be local patriotism here in terms of DIV-relatedness, but there's a fact that this DIV, earlier the monopoly, as they called it, exists, at least as far as I know, for about 100 years, and precisely because of that tradition, I'm saying this. The bill provides for at least the last five years. Therefore, this should also apply to interested buyers of tobacco industries in the tender. I hope that the draft tobacco law will enter legal flows in relation to production, processing, wholesale and retail trade, with constant and effective supervision and sanctions for violations, that it will finally regulate the black market, as well as a greater flow of money into the budget of excise duties and taxes on the profits of producers and traders in a large and slightly legal way. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25643	The minister asked for a word, but really 30 seconds, Minister, if you want to use it. Here you go. Some MPs are leaving the slau. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25644	I just want to answer a few questions asked by a colleague. There's an initiative on the parent board and what you've been talking about can be accepted, that we might have a double key that would further encourage the purchase of domestic producers. So that there's a minimum amount that Vranje has agreed to be 2,000 tonnes, because they predict more production, and on the other hand to tie it in a relative sense; and even there's a proposal to be 50%, not 40%, so I think we could agree on that. As far as privatisation itself is concerned, it is clear that the situation in Vranje is difficult, in the entire Pcinj County, but I think that the privatisation of DIV can be both positive and multiple. Because under the terms of the Privatisation Act, 5% of the income goes to local self-government. Also, 5% goes to the Restitution Fund, and that story will be further developed this year, of course by an appropriate draft law. And not only that, if this house adopts amendments and complements the Privatisation Act, we will further bind the revenues from privatisation and their purpose for the development of the economy. To point out, since there have been a lot of words about this budget debated this year, our public finances have been made in terms of balance, thus covering regular expenditures with regular incomes. So, salaries, pensions and normal minimum government functions are covered through taxes and contributions, so what's privatisation, borrowing and donations, if we look at all of this, that's what the Transition Fund covers, everything that's subsidies in the economy, and I'd say these purposes that we're talking about here. That is why one of the best news that can happen this year for Vranje and the Pcinj County is a successful privatisation. There were few stories about who all met by legitimate stakeholders who wanted to be strategic partners with Nis and Vranja. Judging by interest, the crow will not be a stepdaughter, nor less treated. Of course, the interest in Nis is greater because, as you can see, in 2000 production in Vranj was 1,653 tonnes, and in Nis 12,611, so is the big difference. But I'm sure that when both factories are privatized this year, and it's good to have both of them privatized at the same time, which actually confirms the correctness of privatisation, then at the same time two groups, most likely the same strengths -- the gauge, (I'm not going to bid, no one's been described here, but let's imagine that those who have the greatest participation in our market, will also have the largest brands, that it will be them) give and offer the most favourable conditions. It will offer not only the price, but the social programme and investments, that in some way this big gap between Nis and Vranja will be reduced over time, because the economic power of those behind these two factories will be approximately equivalent. I expect this and thus the relative position of Vranja towards Nis and on the market will be improved.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-05-0.u25645	In accordance with Article 84(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that a session of the Legislative Committee is scheduled and will be held on Thursday, February 6, 2003, at 10.00 p.m., on the ground floor of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This concludes the afternoon session and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The first registered speaker is MP Hranislav Peric, followed by MP Slobodan Adzic. The total time for debate in principle tomorrow in the afternoon is 90 minutes.
