ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28793	Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I understand we have a quorum to work with. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Radoslav Veselinović, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Radulović, Pal Shandor, Natasa Milojevic, Ratimir Svirčević, Išpanovic Istvan, Aleksandar Stefanović and Biaci Anton (before noon). We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL ON PLANING AND BUDGETING (principles) I remind you that during yesterday's session, following the opening presentation, submitted by a representative of the promoter, Dragoslav Šumarac, Minister of Urbanism and Construction, the National MP Miomir Ilic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group participated in the search in principle. Does MP Miomir Ilic want to take advantage of the next 10 minutes? No, I don't. All right, in the end. Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? There is a word from MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28794	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is one of the preconditions of the Europeanisation of Serbian society. It's extremely important. It's not just technical law. It is one of the preconditions for foreign investors to enter and invest in our country. Under the legislation so far, it could take a year and more days to process the issue of construction permits, without strictly sanctioning the obligations of the administration and the competent authorities in issuing those permits, so this is an extremely important system law, which combines four different legal texts. This law also defines the equality of the form of property in the area of planning and construction, which is also one of the trends that the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia points to, and will certainly point to, the future constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The administration shall be eliminated to the extent possible, provisions shall be recast that almost exclusive management as the sole competent authority resolves certain issues in the areas of spatial planning, urbanism, design and the like. Corruption as one of the diseases, you could say, cancer wounds in this area, are also strictly sanctioned. Criminal penalties are foreseen, but not as in previous legislation only for lawless builders, for investors, but also for management. What is new and unusually important is the provision of criminal sanctions for inspectors who do not comply with their obligations, and for the responsible persons in public enterprises who associate illegally built facilities with infrastructure systems, plumbing, heating and the like. The decentralisation to which this law refers, which is the trend of all those laws that include and the functioning of local self-government and the trend that we have followed as parliament over the past more than two years, obliges all municipalities to develop spatial plans, while at the same time allowing these municipalities to hold firmly in their hands the mechanism of development and the municipality, therefore planning the development of that municipality, i.e. holding in their hands the future of their municipalities and the way in which that municipality will develop in the future. According to existing legislation, in order to get to the main project, several dozen papers, as many as 30 different consents, from water lines and sewers to heat, electricity distribution, PTT, radio TV and such. This law allows this procedure to be far shorter. What is new, it is predicted that an idea project can be developed based on the implementation of the urban plan, which contains all the conditions necessary for obtaining the building approval, and an idea project can be used to obtain approval for building an object. It's important, no more urban and technical conditions, no more urban permits, no more construction permits. We know how often in the past this building permit has been the subject of manipulation, abuse, and in this way it is very clear that it is possible for such practice to continue in the future. The approval for construction, even so simplified, and an extremely simplified procedure for obtaining that approval, is necessary exclusively for the construction of new and reconstruction of existing facilities, so to expand objects past the gauges in which they are now located. In order to build up, to expand these facilities, for all objects where a revision is required, which does not mean that these gauges are exceeded, the building approval is not necessary and in this sense the whole procedure is further facilitated. Those facilities that the Ministry was competent to do, and we have to admit that this often lost meaning, it was some objects that did not exist in reality and objective justification that the Ministry was burdened with the approval of the construction or reconstruction of such objects, now the procedure is far different. The description and number of facilities for which the Ministry's approval is required is far less. These are facilities for which it is by nature necessary to be a competent ministry, they are of interest to the Republic of Serbia - highways, highways, bridges and all that is important to citizens of the entire Republic of Serbia. The granting of personal licences was also provided for by previous laws, but the possibility to withdraw personal licences was not foreseen. This law makes it possible. This provision and procedure is fully in line with European practice. If legal persons holding those licences do not meet those obligations in the right way, if they do not comply professionally with the licences they have received, then there is an objective possibility provided for by law that these licences are withdrawn. Criminal sanctions, a whole series established by this law, force the authorities and all public authorities to behave not only in accordance with the law, but with the criteria of efficiency, rationality, economics and responsibility for the functioning of this area. There are very short deadlines in which the approval for construction must be granted. Even the law provides for only 15 days if all conditions are respected. After that, a responsible person in the authority of the administration is sentenced to up to 30 days in prison. This provision certainly guarantees and demonstrates the good will of the Ministry, the Government, and I believe the Assembly when it adopts this law, once and for all, to introduce order, rule of law and prevent corruption in this area, which is one of the cancer wounds just when we mention urbanism, construction and planning in the Republic of Serbia. This law provides for a more liberal and more constructive possibility of legalising objects that have been illegally built. We had a long period, especially in the 1990s, and especially with the arrival and great wave of refugees, when simply many objects were built without the necessary conditions, so beyond the legal conditions, and that was simply the achievement of circumstances and the power of opportunity. Most of these facilities must certainly be legalised and this law provides for the possibility of such objects being legalised. Of course, it will be impossible to legalise those facilities located in the directions of certain corridors, on the routes of certain roads, so in those places where important traffic facilities are provided or extremely important infrastructure facilities, but the vast majority of the facilities will be able to legalise. The previous law in this sense was not successful. Based on it, only about 3% of the facilities were legalized and that's absolutely not enough. This law will not bind the legalisation institution to a specific date. It practically allows all objects, except for those that are simply impossible to legalise, to be legalised and thus to ensure the security of the owners of these facilities, because at this point they do not have the legal basis to be located where they are and that is also one of the very important flows of this law. This law is a prerequisite for the introduction of order into the area of planning and construction, a prerequisite for attracting foreign and domestic investors, as it allows for a very short procedure, and unless it is sharply sanctioned, above all, against the workers of the administration or public enterprises if they do not carry out their legal obligation properly. This law provides decentralisation, so the possibility that municipalities really create their development in the right way and enables them to break up with corruption once and for all in this area. Because of all this, the DOS-Reform Serbian Parliament Club will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28795	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic, deputy president of the "Serbia" parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28796	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, for the Serbian MP group and the Peasant Party of Serbia, a member of this parliamentary group, the proposed bill on planning and building, the confidence that urban chaos and so-called wild construction, which has taken a major situation, will finally stand in the way and thus bring this area into some sort of order. The proposed legislative project is a comprehensive solution that aims to take care of material that has been largely unregulated so far. That proposal for a spatial plan should lead to a certain degree of necessary discipline in this area. The significant improvements that this bill adopts are visible, starting with the very principles of editing space, provide the widest possible framework for regulating these issues, up to the very provisions of criminal law. The bill provides for the establishment of a spatial planning agency. Among other things, what is good in this agency project is the obligation to report to the government at least twice a year, which is a certain guarantee of financial control of the agency's work. A particularly good solution is the adoption of a spatial plan for the region, the city and the municipality by local authorities, which are also the most sensitive to local problems, and thus the most important problems that can be solved by the best spatial plan. Article 29 regulates the possibility of public insight into the planning document, which is an extremely good solution, because only public involvement in this process is of exceptional democratic importance, given that it provides two-way communication on the relation of authorities - citizens. These two previously mentioned solutions are another step of government towards announced decentralisation, which should be welcomed in any case. In particular, the members of the draft law relating to the control of the spatial plan's solutions are foreseen for the longest period of four years, allowing the planning process to become permanent, continuous and thus prevent any insensibility of the system to change, because the area itself to which the planning relates is a dynamic area. Similar provisions on the revision of the plan have been treated with Article 110. The bill, which also determines that the maximum of four years must be completed by the revision of the law. This monitoring of the dynamics of social life is one of the best parts of the legal project. The details of individual members, such as Article 45, should be set out to define a programme for the development of the urban plan. It refers to the object itself, then the entire accompanying infrastructure, the environment of the facility itself. This comprehensiveness and exhaustion of the bill could be identified as one of the best of the same. Article 52 defines professional control of the plan. The solution offered is of great importance because the law provides for internal mechanisms to prevent the occurrence of failures when defining the plan itself. This part of the legislative project provides public insight into the urban plan, which further strengthens the legitimacy of the legal project. The area concerning urban construction land arrangements is solidly governed by the bill, which specifically sets out an attempt to define as many legal and realistic situations as possible and by contributing more to the regulation of this area. Article 76 could also create controversial solutions relating to the construction of temporary buildings in an area of unbuilt public building land, provided that their destruction at the expiry of the building permit in any way has been extended, as has been the case so far. The members of 121 and 125 shall address the issue of technical examination of the building and authorisation. These solutions must insist on preventing the practice of moving objects so far without presupposing all necessary legal conditions. Practice must be strict in this case to prevent possible abuse. The destruction of objects is a special chapter and offers a good solution to the necessity of security of housing for persons whose object is collapsing. A special part consists of criminal provisions. It should be pointed out that the proponent insisted on the great strictness of those to ensure the necessary authority of the law. The punishment for three years in prison, if they illegally build and illegally join the municipal infrastructure, should apply the same to each person, not as before. In this case, it was necessary to distinguish the construction of illegal facilities in order to obtain financial benefits, from those who build and solve this building of their own housing situation and allow for more favourable conditions for this other group of citizens to obtain all accompanying permits. I cannot complete the presentation, and even here in front of the MPs, I do not give suggestions to the Association of Residential Cooperatives of Serbia, which I presented to the Committee on Building and Urbanism, that housing cooperatives should have places in this law, since they are builders of apartments under the same conditions as businesses and actions that this activity allows. We know that in smaller urban areas, the association of citizens in residential cooperatives is the fastest and simplest way of resolving the housing issue, which in life is almost every citizen's most difficult item, and therefore the most important. In major urban areas, i.e. major cities, the inclusion of housing cooperatives in housing works would be eliminated by wild entrepreneurs and other speculators, builders and others, who, in most cases, avoid paying the government's obligations in various ways, which in the past 50% of cases and have succeeded. When the full text of the bill is summed up, it can be said that this legal project is a good attempt to take care of this area, but with its decent and determined application in practice. Finally, to conclude the exposure to the findings I gave at the beginning of the exhibition -- looking at the whole, the proposed law on planning and construction has a reform character, provides guarantees for the introduction of order instead of the urban and construction chaos so far. From that aspect, the Serbian MP group and the Serbian Peasant Party, a member of the parliamentary group, supports the bill and will vote for its adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28797	People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28798	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, before starting to pass a law, it is primarily necessary to analyse the current situation well and see what is the consequence of the situation that we have: are these bad laws, is it corruption, is it sloppyness, negligence or something worse? Without those starting grounds, which we have to go from, we can't see what we want to build. Do we need one law that would cover more areas that have been regulated by different laws so far or do we need smaller, clearer and more efficient laws? Does what we suggest here exist in some other countries or do they have a different system of legislation? What's proposed today is something that, in any case, cannot be acceptable for several reasons. I'm going to give you an example of the situation we've been in, it's already well known. Today and these days, he retreats to the press - gas stations and cafes in Novi Sad Nenada Opačić; as it came to someone getting a salary bid, where they waved with different words and threats; so to make sure that someone got that salary in the way he got it, with threats; and then the one who worked the project became a member of the city government in charge of urbanism, and then he wrapped it all up and got a final solution. It's an example of maybe not bad laws, but bad relationships. It's all about and that's the theme of many stories today in the New Sad. No one took responsibility for that. So are we talking about bad laws here or are we talking about not punishing those who pass plans and legalizing through abuse in Serbia? That's why we need to see if it's just the law we need to change. Let's go dot by point. The association of Serbian urbanists also has many objections to the law and says it is inapplicable. As a congregation, we need to make sure that we pass laws that are inadmissible, cause new conflicts, new divisions, or we need to pass laws that some area will regulate. The fact is that the area we have is completely unsettled and that there is complete chaos. Only go to Belgrade, Dedinj, Bulevara of Peace, the Pink Television Building and everything else that is illegally raised, which someone subsequently legalized to get regime television. There are many such things, not only in Belgrade, there are in Pancheva from which I come, there are in every city. There are lots of wild settlements and illegal objects. The fact is that legalization law only legalizes 3% of objects and the question is why is it so, whether it's run or not, it's a good campaign. We need to ask what we're going to do with illegal objects, wild construction. Is it the state's interest to legalize these facilities with compensation or to keep these facilities out of all plans? The question should be asked whether the interest of the state is to legalise an illegal facility in a shorter period of time and for less money than to obtain all permits in a short period of time, and you begin to build an object in accordance with all conditions. Of course, it is the state's interest that the process of obtaining and issuing permits, as well as the amount paid to equip construction land and in general for building land, must be shorter than the legalisation process. It is therefore necessary to see whether these issues are resolved or not, whether the law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. In this law there are many things contrary to both the Constitution and many other laws. It is also the opposite of the Law on the Property of the Republic of Serbia. (Glass from the O.R.: U, son of a bitch.) It's someone's "in the sun," but look at some laws and see if your laws are applicable. Is this a law that allows decentralisation or centralization? If you have a space planning agency, where the power is to make decisions and to control decisions itself, are we talking about decentralisation, are we talking about control, are we talking about new relationships and the new system? Read some of the law, don't throw it away without opening the cover of this law and seeing what's going on. That's what the presidents of the municipalities sit here in front of, and when they come back tomorrow and they ask them -- what did you vote there, he'll say -- I don't know, they told me it was the right thing to do. That's right. It's been going around here for 50 years and more, and that's why we've come all the way here, because neither the urbanists nor anyone else has been dealing with a job that he's been in charge of, ladies and gentlemen. Start reading the laws and establishing what's in the interest of the entire community and justifying the trust you've got to sit in those benches. That mandate was given to you by no one else to the citizens, and you should work in their interest. (President: Please return to the topic. ) You have an example of a planned commission that itself draws up a plan, controls itself, and again we have centralised, the absence of clear control systems. The proposer of this law has not clearly established what is the object and purpose and what questions will regulate the law, what is its and what is the jurisdiction of other laws and where this law is contrary to the Constitution. The consequences and effects of this law will come very soon, will be inconclusive or difficult to implement, and for six or seven months or a year we will have to change this law. Will you, then, not looking at that law again, vote to change that law? The provision for the termination of the spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia is anti-constitutional. This law provides for it. This law is nothing more than a collection of mutually repressed areas of social practice. The practice that has been shown and which has existed to avoid some channels, you are thus legalizing different practices that are mutually opposed. This is not good, it is contrary to world practice and to proposing the development of urban spatial planning. First of all, here the urban plan comes down to the level of some kind of administrative act, which is a plan that, by all definitions, applies to everyone, it's a general act. You bring it down here to an act that works and applies only to whoever ordered it and thus you question urban planning in general, as well as spatial planning in Serbia. In your opinion, the local level of governance in urban policy, therefore, does not exist at all. Everything is being brought to the level of the agency and this is contrary to the declared decentralisation and democratisation of the system in Serbia, a higher degree of centralisation is being established at a republican level than is now existing. Is this in line with the aspirations, the omnibus law, the intentions of Serbia's future constitution, decentralisation and democratisation; of course not. The same institutions accommodate those who give themselves jobs and who control themselves. A solution like this, especially this kind of control, doesn't exist anywhere in the world. Although, it may exist in Iraq, but there won't be much longer. Libya, Sverna Korea, has such solutions and, if you've taken them from here, it's quite acceptable, since that's the way we're going. But let's see what else is in this law. There's a lot of interesting things, just a man doesn't know where to start.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28799	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28800	I will, seeing as your MPs are interested in hearing about this, so I will continue to use it. Apparently their education is missing, so why don't you work on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28801	I give you a notice on the basis of article 101. Rules of Procedure, since, despite my warning, you continue to insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28802	Mrs. Micic, if you had a little more respect for the Rules of Procedure, then you would take care of the MPs who support you and sit here, and sometimes give them at least one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28803	You have no right to talk to me, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28804	Mrs. Micic, if you want to talk to me, when I sit in the bench, come out for a pay phone. It is the fundamental right of culture in parliament. But let us continue to guide the messengers into what this law does, or does not do. If we are talking about a provision relating to building land, it is contrary to the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. From the point of view, they divide the building land into public and other building land, the said law does not know such a division of the building land, so it is necessary to divide or prior to the amendment of the law on assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, because that law defines all construction land owned by the Republic of Serbia and that only the Republic of Serbia can deal with the transport of construction land, and not anyone else. So for those who don't know, that law has to change. Or, something else to do, put certain provisions out of force, but it is not foreseen by the transitional and final provisions of this law. You will have in legal traffic two acts that are contrary. Well, if you're going to apply this law or the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, we don't know, nor who's going to solve this confusion; whether this assembly will solve it again, which the irresponsible decisions will change again, because it has not been taken care of, although there have been objections. These are all things that obviously some people don't care about or care about. This is complex matter and cannot be regulated by one act, it will only introduce additional confusion. The absence of a view of the possibility of bad occurrences, due to the illogical nature of certain provisions, has inconceivable consequences, and it may be better not to apply such a law in any way. It may be good that it is inapplicable, so there will be no inconceivable consequences that can arise under this law. Perhaps it is also good that your reform law will be inapplicable, so that the reforms you are conducting in many other areas as well as here will remain inapplicable. This law excludes the existence of public urban enterprises, which is a major problem. This type of enterprise exists in all countries and public urbanism is a service that takes care of the interests of the state and citizens, as well as cities and local self-government. It is excluded here, because it is likely intended to be given to privileged private or other services, so that this anti-civilization attitude towards the city is deepened and that they will again have privileged ones who, like Nenad Opačić, would receive a salary for pumps and cafes, and afterwards give various other Nenadima Opačići. (Louds from the O.R.: Who? So you know who gave the city government in Novi Sad. Let's move on, it's very bad that this law is passed even though the profession is against this law, although the profession says that this law is extremely complicated, complicated and makes it practically indecisive and that the problems cannot be solved by this law. And if the waist says the text of the law is so bad that it can't be corrected by amendments, then what are we talking about? No such bad law has yet been passed, and no law in this congregation has said that it is so bad that it cannot be corrected by amendments. We've had various laws, we've put various objections on them, from schooling, from this to that, and the profession has had objections to those laws, but here we're talking about a law that's going to hit us like some kind of elemental disaster, accident or something else. Privileges will "smooze" and those who sincerely want to do it will not be able to do it. What is being solved by this law - this law does not solve the issue of corruption. On the contrary, it opens, as one puts it, an easier process of obtaining building permits and even building permits. How do you get that, how are you going to legalize existing objects -- so the inspector will close his eyes until the facility is up and then in a month, it'll all work out. Is that how it should be done, whether we should go over it here, and if we know for who knows which way in this congregation we will go through world practice and against the opinion of the profession that needs to be respected? Is that how reforms are done, if we go past world practice? So come on, ladies and gentlemen, let's get serious. This is not a political matter, and it should not be seen as a political matter. This is a matter that should make life easier for the citizens of Serbia. This law should put order in one area, where there are urban and every other mafia. It is necessary to enter the process of passing this law with great calm and unscathedness. We need to hear everyone's objections to this law in an extremely calm manner. The law cannot be passed, if against it and local self-government, if the opposite interest of local self-government and other forms of decentralisation, the autonomous province and probably contrary to the new constitution and new aspirations for Serbia's new constitution. This law is contrary to the current Constitution of Serbia, as the current Space Plan cannot be abolished. It's just against the constitution. It is contrary to a number of other laws in our legal order, such as the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Assets owned by the Republic of Serbia, the Law on State Administration and a series of positive regulations. This law is contrary to all these regulations. Are we, who have passed this Law on Local Self-Government, now going to rule that local self-government, will we disenfranchise the cities, will we rule the province? Here we are talking about a bad law which completely disrupts the relations that are being established in our legal order. He will not solve the problem of the urban mafia and urban chaos in Serbia. That, however it stands, dear gentlemen, call the elections to see, we are not afraid of choices, and those who fear choices speak or do not speak of it and hide behind other things. The election is a real criterion, we don't hide behind stolen and every other mandate. Simply, we do not want the laws of the opposite constitution, such as this, and I expect the Ministry to withdraw this law from the procedure, arrange it with more expertise and comply with the existing law, with the Constitution, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on State Administration, the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, simply to get a law that will allow this area to develop in Serbia. You who don't read the laws, you will bear responsibility for such bad laws, not us, and then you will scratch, but it will be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28805	The Minister, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28806	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really had to take my word for it right away. I am sorry that Mr. Michael accused others of not reading the law, apparently he was not reading the law, but he was listening to instructions from the Association of Urbanists of Serbia. They have been against these legal solutions all along because the president of the Association of Urbanities of Serbia was appointed during Milosevic. It is obvious that Mr. Mihajlov's party listens and that they were presidents at the time of Milosevic and his officials, so in that direction he continued here after this address. In fact, we have several times called the Association of Urbanists to participate in the creation of this law. But as they were probably also guilty of the previous regime, because the profession was not respected, they were on the sidelines, so they stayed aside during the draft of the law. They're just not used to working in this past period. So, urbanists, they didn't work on legal solutions, they didn't work on urban plans, not just their own, but also the guilt of the authorities at the time of the Socialists. This law is now opening a job for urbanists and spatial planners; the very fact that municipalities must do urban plans within 18 months opens a big job for urbanists. Urban plans will be done in all municipalities and cities over the next 18 months. You know that our and the province government has singled out the budget for the last 50 years of funding to make urban plans for the most underdeveloped municipalities; probably Mr. Michael's not informed about it. So 30% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia will be covered. As regards the objection that the law is also against other laws, it is in Article 2. The law on assets owned by the Republic states that the use and arrangement of construction land is regulated by special laws. In this law, we never got into a property problem at all. The problem of property remains as it is in both the Constitution and these laws, and we have only put the possibility of cities developing, or building. In fact, many plots in the cities have been given to use construction firms, and for the past 10 years, thanks to the very previous regime, they have come into a very difficult position and have not been able to bring these plots to their purposes. We have given them the opportunity, along with great directives, to build Belgrade, Novi Sad and other major cities, for another year to bring in these parcels, and if they do not bring them in, then they will be taken away and auctioned to other users. That's how cities will develop. The only thing where we have property on the land, that's what used to exist in the former law, is most often on the edges of cities, where according to the decisions, the area of land was transformed into a city building. If it wasn't brought in for purpose, it's coming back to property to former owners. There are mostly now a small economy, individual objects and these objects are precisely because of this problem and are illegal. Therefore, this law really introduces reform in all these areas; it is certain that it eliminates corruption, because by entering urban plans all the conditions of public enterprises, no one in the public enterprise knows who will be the investor on a plot for which a construction approval is sought at a later stage; employment, not just urbanists and spatial planners; spatial planners must make spatial plans for 120 and more municipalities as much as there is in Serbia. In addition, these legal solutions will increase the number of sites several times, and I am free to say that the number of sites in our country will triple, precisely because of the solution in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28807	I thank Mr. Secretary. The right to a replica, Messenger of the people, Dejan Michael; the basis of the line, that he did not read the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28808	Mrs. Micic, the basis for the replica is not that I have not read the law, unlike you I read the laws, the basis for the replica is that someone says here and accuses the entire Association of Serbian Urbanists of being of Milosevic's time. Mr. Shumarac, at the time of Milosevic you were a professor of the University, what should I say - all professors of the University are Milosevic's professors? If people were doing their job, don't let us talk like that. When I don't know, I ask, and apparently others don't ask when they don't know, so they live in eternal darkness. We are talking here that the minister has now been more concerned with politics than with his profession and has not answered any of the questions that we have asked. Now that we're talking about some of the former regimes, then explain to me how the Pink Television Building is legalized, explain to me how it's solved, that miracle in the ambience of the grandfather, explain to me how it's legalized, so let's see who's corrupt, who's not and who's doing what. Explain to me how Nenad Opačić got it, so it was now, a crying for pumps and cafes, everything in Novi Sad, who gave it to him, as he gave it to him, whether it was given to him by those urbanists of Milosevic's time or by some local government of your time; and whether we can share those of Milosevic's time and those of our time; are those who are corrupt from your time closer to you than those corrupt from Milosevic's time. To me all corrupt are the same, they were now, they were yesterday, they were tomorrow, all corrupt are the same, and you don't protect those who are politically closer to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28809	You don't have the right to a replica. The basis for the replica? Second call, please. The word has been given by MP Miomir Ilic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28810	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I must continue my presentation yesterday with one finding. In yesterday's statement, Mr. Minister made a proposal and gave the government an explanation, where he did not mention in any sentence that the bill was made from a political aspect. His current exposure is extremely political, and since the law is very important for all citizens of Serbia, I do not think it is appropriate. To mention this previous regime of Slobodan Milosevic related to this legal project is, let me tell you, extremely undemocratic, because the basic planning document for all legal projects related to this matter is the development strategy foreseen by the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. Our main observation is that this legislative proposal was also meant to respect the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, which was made between 1989 and 1995, and was adopted in 1996, where really professional people, institutes and individuals who gave their proposals through a very professional and broad public debate, where Professor Shumarac probably participated. Local authorities, which were not at the time ruled by the Socialists, also participated. I note that Belgrade was not ruled by Socialists, Kragujevac, Subotica, Novi Sad. You, gentlemen of the opposition, participated in the development of the Republic of Serbia's spatial plan. But to pick up where I left off. The final product, for which the new law regulates four of those areas, is before the construction of the facility. All plans, spatial, urban, construction and construction of buildings on a decorated and unregulated building plot has its final product, and this is a building facility. On the occasion of this chapter, which has been specifically treated, I will make my next observation in front of the SPS parliamentary group, without political overtones. The construction of buildings, as a final act of the implementation of previously adopted plans, is dedicated to a special chapter in this bill. The essence of the legislative proposal is, according to the proposal, a reduction in the process of obtaining approval for construction. The proposal believes that the submission of an idea project will significantly simplify the authorisation process for construction, which does not have some solid basis. In addition to the idea project, an act on urban conditions, whose design is conditioned by the existence of a spatial plan, should also be submitted. In addition to the request, it is necessary to attach evidence of the right of ownership, i.e. the lease of building land, as well as other evidence to a specific urban plan. All of this takes time, money, and yet one big one, and now and according to this proposal, the administration process. Just twice, the minister said, will not mean that the proposed solution will significantly reduce the time for obtaining building approval. If the applicable permit is issued on the basis of an idea project, how will the final product be protected - object, and possibly from the interventions of investors, performers, suppliers and users. The issue of a valid permit based on a documentation that cannot build an object not only does not simplify the process, but opens a wide field of manipulation. Simplification in obtaining a useful permit should be sought in quality-prescripted processing of major projects, altering bureaucratic behaviour of civil servants and breaking corruption. Update the work of the municipal administration is absolutely in place. It needs to be objective. Whether the 15-day period for issuing the permit for construction is realistic, in conditions where many municipal administrations do not have a qualified structure of workers for this type of work. A large number of requirements are also possible, especially those for legalising built objects without a building permit. Threatening the 30-day sentence for responsible persons in the municipal authority of the administration, in the event of non-compliance with the deadline, may lead to the departure of a number of experts from the Authority. NiSPS, and other opposition parties were unable to submit amendments, and they would certainly have been professionally processed and used by the proposing that through the adoption of certain amendments to the amendments to this proposal; of the amendments submitted by DOS - Serbia's Reform to the Assembly, 40 were adopted. It says that the proposal itself is not clear enough and sufficiently processed. The problem is that out of the 40 amendments adopted, the Gro refers to the application of the law in Vojvodina, where more rights are given to the Vojvodina Assembly to adopt plans, urban, spatial and to issue a building permit for those facilities than the interests of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. No state, even though it is mentioned that only Denmark and another have national plans, cannot help but have some national interest. In Article 89(2), the proposer himself proposed, which are the facilities for which a building permit is granted for the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Engineering, which is the exception in the Bill's proposal. The promoter himself believes these facilities are important to Repulbika Serbia, and what they are. By adopting the amendment tabled by the DOS -- Serbia's Reform -- this is being analyzed. The question arises, following the adoption of all these amendments in this respect, what this assembly represents in the basic legislative project as of vital interest. The AP Vojvodina, through its assembly bodies, will certainly bring permits to build facilities on its territory, but they are also of interest to this part of Serbia. It's a concept that has a little political sound, but I have to point out, even though I said I wouldn't use that opportunity. Article 107. The draft law stipulates that the company, entrusted with the business of producing technical documentation for the construction of the facility, except that it is to be entered in the relevant register, must meet the conditions and have an employee with a license for the responsible designer. He doesn't say how many of those faces he has to have a company. The relevant Construction Act provides for at least two authorised persons for buildings of the Ministry's jurisdiction and one authorised person for facilities of other purposes. So that particularization here isn't solved, Minister, how many faces, it says, can one, two, three, table. We also have private companies that have a smaller administration. Article 109(2) provides for the obligation of a licence for a responsible designer. We believe that the conditions for obtaining a licence, such as high professional preparing appropriate professions, passed a professional exam, at least three years of work experience, with professional results on making technical documentation, are quite sufficient and, as I said yesterday, the recommendation of two responsible designers is unnecessary. Article 116(2) for the construction of buildings approved by the competent ministry provides that the contractor may be an undertaking which, other than being entered in the court register for the construction of that type of facility, must have employees with a license for the responsible contractor and relevant professional results. It's not said how many such licensed persons a company should have, at least, one or a hundred. The Up until now Construction Act stipulates that these are at least two authorised persons for facilities approved by the competent Ministry of Urbanism and Construction; for the other facilities one. Such a solution in the existing law was much better. So it's not just that the previous law is wrong, it's that it has good settings. Article 117 speaks of a responsible contractor. Under the bill of law, the responsible contractor can only be a person with high professional training, appropriate professions, directions, work experience, and no possibility is given that where the approval for the construction of the issue of the municipal authority of the administration may be performed by an authorised licensed person with a higher or secondary school equipment. So, this proposal stipulates that the performance of works, and even the smaller volume, can only be done by anyone who has high professional equipment and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28811	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28812	Let me just finish my sentence. Such strict conditions bring many smaller businesses into an unfavourable position, as well as degrade very skilled persons with higher and medium professional equipment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28813	The word came from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SRS were unable to submit amendments to this law, as it became common for the president of the National Assembly to schedule all sessions by emergency procedure. At the end of the voting day, last Friday, she scheduled a session by saying, "See you Tuesday, and at the parliamentary clubs at 10.00 p.m., she came in until 12:00 p.m., when our deadline was up, we weren't really able to submit the amendments. So 20 minutes as far as I can get and 27 minutes as many MPs from the MPs' club isn't enough to discuss this law. I am truly sorry that such an expert law, which is not political, hastens and that MPs are deprived of the right to make amendments to this law and to try to change it. But what's there? We'll try in the shortest lines to explain what we're terrified of, what the effects of this law will be and what it is that we resent. And of course, there are some positive sides. In his exposé, the minister said, and also in Article 173 of the Law, we see that on the day of the adoption of this law, some laws, such as the Law on the Construction of Objects, the Law on Planning and Arrangement of Space and Villages, the Law on Building Land and the Law on Special Conditions for the issue of construction, or the use of permits for certain buildings. The question is how positive is that this law covers the matter of these four laws. It's not always a positive side. Much more common is negativity. We do not understand why Article 173 states that the adoption of this law ceases to apply to the provision of Article 11(2). The Ministry Act, Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, number 27/2002, since this law has ceased to apply by adopting a new Ministry Act, which we have recently voted on. Obviously, this is about negligence, and it wasn't noticed when this proposal was submitted. If we'd like to comment on the current situation in this area, we all know that illegal construction has been rampant in recent years, especially since 1996. Certain areas have been attacked. I know about the city of Belgrade, say Vozdovac and Chukarica were acute points. At the time of the Together coalition on the city level, he could build whoever he wanted, the five-story building plots on which only a family house could be built, five plus one, and all thanks to the creation of a special urban mafia, which took and put huge money in its pocket, on account of the destruction of the city's core, and which is now impossible to correct. To implement this law, it will take at least a dozen more regulations to be passed by the government, as many issues have been unsaid, have been initiated. I cannot agree with Mr Pajtic's assessment that the law is ideal, nor with the praise of Mr. Minister. If that were the case, the ruling parliamentary group would not have submitted this number of amendments. We know that whenever MPs of the ruling DOS-Refoma of Serbia submit amendments, that they are amendments to the government, they are written by the minister and someone from the ministry. So, at the last minute, you realized there were a lot of gaps in this law and therefore 50 amendments by DOS - Serbia's Reform. The question arises as to why so many illegal objects have been built, when we know that anyone can report illegal construction, so these criminal provisions should say that a year prison gets everyone who went to Schiller's, he knew that it was an illegal facility, and he didn't report it. That would be quite correct. When you explained the law, you said only 3% of the objects were legalized. That's three percent of what Pink got into. As soon as Željko Mitrovic got his hands on it, he was able to legalize his facility in one day. Thousands of demands, I know, stand in the City Hall. Why wasn't it working on those demands, when the citizens paid for everything they had to pay, properly filed their claims, paid for construction land, it wasn't small money, and then you stopped legalisation with one decree, obviously expecting this law to be passed. What your motives were, I couldn't interpret. You also claimed in your exposé that the current solutions were subject to corruption. It is, but I'm not sure that these solutions, which we now have in this law, will be subject to corruption. If they see everything that Ljuba Angelkovic, as a member of the Executive Board, seems to me to be the Vice-President of the Executive Board, worked in connection with the urban mafia, and made himself a villa, and the land was assigned to him by his wife, who was the functionator of the Kukarica Municipality Assembly. You will probably want to apply for the illegal construction filed by the late Tapi and the criminal charges filed both against Ljiljana and Ljubomir Angelkovic, explaining how this urban mafia occurred. I'll tell you what it is in two sentences. This is one example, but that's how it was done. That's what we all have in the neighborhood and we can plastically explain it. Mr. Tapi writes a letter to the congregation of Chukarica and the inspection, which did not respond in time. At the moment when the facility is nothing, it needs to stop building or collapse into the foundations. At least that's how it was before. Now it's waiting for the object to pop up. Everyone expected that legalization was the origin of all kinds of objects. Mr. Tapi says, and now all I have left to do is tell you a story, which was told to me by the owner of the meadow on which the soliter broke out. It's about Golf. My fellow painter, Alexander Djuric. The story goes like this; in the summer of 2000 two people from the JUL General Board came to him and offered him 250 metres of square living space, that he allowed them to build a house on his meadow. Đuric personally complained that he had been deceived and that he would receive only 100 square meters, because a budget whose wife was head of the building permit had blackmailed them and that instead of the agreed 540 square meters for the service, now this Buddha is looking for 970 square meters plus two garages, so they had to build another floor to get the damage out. Now you from the building inspection don't move well in a nice neighborhood, because you're only tearing down the poor girl. I'll tell you how many flats are sold in that soliter - 2,600 German marks per meter square, and a attic of 2,300. So, by your inaction, you allowed Angelkovic to earn 2 million and 500 thousand marks. It was the usual situation in Belgrade. If this law is going to help make it go away, then that's good. We'll see what it looks like in practice. It has also been shown that the spatial plan is a list of beautiful desires, that it is unrelated to the spatial plan of the surrounding countries, and at the same time you are now descending to the level of local self-government to create something that is also a spatial plan. It's not called this, it's called that, it's not a neck, it's a neck. That's what some people have to do. The deadline you've left for 18 months is very small, which means most of the municipalities will be unable to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28815	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28816	Yeah. Since they can't do that, the agency will, of course, do it for them. At least that's what the law says. That's what it costs. These are budget funds, which means that we will again be doing a new spatial plan in Serbia, and that it will cost us a lot, and that the budget is empty, even we MPs, because there is no money in the register for most MPs, today or the diaries to raise. The pay's starting to get late. We broke as a Bulgarian assembly. The agency that's going to grow out of the Space Planning Office... Mr. Arsic explained to me that we can't go bankrupt because he's an expert in finance with us in the Parliament tower. I asked if we were in front of bankruptcy, he says, no, the state can't go bankrupt...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28817	Please return to the topic. You complained that you didn't have enough time to talk about the law, and now you're talking about it off topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28818	The state, if you'd come into such a situation, you'd have to give part of the territory for your debts, but I can see that we're ready for that, too. So, the Agency that will grow from the Office of Spatial Planning, and the strategy will be adopted by the Assembly, it's a new spatial plan, and there's no newspaper here, except that we're spending free money. The paper is also that the municipality brings its own spatial plan and it goes in the direction of decentralisation. You obviously know what the next constitution is going to be and that it will be in the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit. For now, it is not and therefore the provisions of this law, which concern it, are contrary to the existing Law on Local Self-Government, because local self-government can only adopt a regulatory plan. The crimes that were planned, as well as the penalties, so far you say that it had some effect, and I don't know that anyone went to prison for illegal construction. The license you predicted, and you say by reputation of the Austrian chamber, I think that's where corruption space will be created. I'm sure this Eurovik company, which makes construction bases, and you own the company's assets, will get a license, and as the rest of them get, we'll see. Whether it will be an objection or not, and perhaps that's why the Association of Urbanists is protesting, although I think you have some youth trauma of Milosevic, and about Gorica Gajevic, when you talk about the president of this association, but that's your business. I would start with Article 1 that regulates the subject matter of this law and foresees the establishment of that spatial planning agency, and from Article 4, we can conclude that it is an independent organisation that exercises public authority, which is responsible for its work to the government. It remains, however, unclear whether it is a professional organisation, that it only performs professional tasks for spatial planning purposes, or does administrative tasks, where the founder transferred the work, or perhaps has only spatial and urban planning in his work, and how it can further engage third parties to carry out certain professional activities. I'll ask you countless questions, and I'd like you to answer me. I see that it's a stalker recipe that the government started, perfected it almost entirely and in every area, so no one knows alive how many agencies we have in the country. In Article 2, the Proposer explains certain concepts, fails to tell us what is within the meaning of this law planning and editing of space, what is the basic subject of this law, and what is urban documentation. We are left to speculate whether urban documentation is at the same time a general legal act that produces the legal fact erga omnes, an individual act that acts interpartes or is analyses and studies that do not have legal facts, nor have the character of legal acts. Article 2(1) explains the concept of a public area and covers the concept of an object from a general interface, and is precisely defined by the Expropriation Act, and an object intended for public use, explained in point 2), but is an unclear relationship between these objects. It's unclear from the bill, because there's no explanation of the term - the existing state, and it would have to be, because it's a reality, because we're not on the ice and it doesn't begin all of this law, some condition has been found. The question arises as to what is called the situation in the area where the buildings were built or works were carried out in the event that the plan was not presented for that space or in order to determine the situation in the area where the buildings were built without a building permit, which would be found to be undeniable. Whether it's an existing condition or not. Point 12 of the same article explains the concept of the location, so the question is, what is the relationship between this concept and the building plots and if there is a mutual relationship, it should be explained because the concept of a building plot is not explained. I haven't been able to find an explanation of the concept of building land, at least not in the way that we're familiar with lawyers, so that we can interpret what's written in any sense, linguistic, logical, sociological, targeted or otherwise. In point 30), the term investor is related to a person whose needs are built by an object, although the concept of investment, which is true of Latin origin, means investment in our language. So he wasn't well used. The concept of urban plan and regulation plan is not explained at all. Article 34 regulates the choice, composition, way and part-time of the work of the planning commission that performs professional tasks in the process of drawing up a spatial plan of the municipality, so a question arises which professional affairs is performed by another legal or physical person, and you say it can be domestic, can also be foreign. So we have a planned commission, she's an expert body, and she's still hiring additional experts. You seem to want to hire all the members of your party. That's impossible. You'd have to be in power for a very long time to succeed. Article 28 raises the question by which act the minister regulates the fulfilment of conditions for a responsible spatial planner. Whether it is an administrative act; if it is, then it would have to be possible to appeal in the administrative procedure. What is the legal nature of the recommendations of at least two responsible planners or engineering chambers, as prescribed as necessary. The recommendation in my opinion cannot possibly be a condition, but only one of the motives. You know, when you're taking a baby-sitter, you don't ask another baby-sitter what she's like, but the one she worked for. It's the most normal thing. As far as implementation is concerned, there is a visible indetermination of the proposed solution from which there is uncertainty for everyone, so it seems to me to be a proponent. If it's a contract, then that means, of course, the consent of the will, and the intended consequences for the non-fulfilment of that contract, so it's completely unclear to me what is the reason for this institute's introduction, except perhaps posnading. As for the land, I really can't look back on it, my colleagues will talk about it. I'm just going to point out that there's an unconstitutional category -- other building land; that exproprians are being executed against the provisions of the Expropriation Act; that there's a discrepancy of the law on assets in the possession of the Republic; that there's a violation of the Law on Nationalisation of Construction Land and Rental Buildings, which the truth ceases to apply. The consequences will seem to me such that this law will be difficult to implement, that it will lead to chaos with unnecessary spending of huge funds and for these reasons the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28819	Right on line, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleague Pop-Lazic said I said the law was ideal. I don't think you can say in advance for any law that is ideal until you see how it will apply in practice. I stood out which are the extraordinary advantages of this law and behind what I said I am standing. There are many concerns and there have been objections about when amendments have been submitted and I think it's very important that we clarify that. The law has been in the process before this parliament since 17 February. So, it's practically two months out today. It is the business obligation of the president of the assembly to put the bill on the agenda or to have the government withdraw it, and to return it. So each of the MPs could, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, know that it was necessary to submit amendments within those two months, in order for these amendments to be discussed at the assembly session. The fact that 80 amendments have been submitted in support of the fact that MPs have been familiar with this, and as for the submission of amendments by DOS - Reform, I don't think we need the Ministry to tell us what amendments we're going to make and I don't think these amendments, since they were mostly focused on decentralisation of certain processes, change anything significantly in a law that is otherwise extremely good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28821	The People's MP Milos Lukic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28822	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Soviet Union, and despite this explanation we've heard, I must at first express my disdain for the inability to participate in the creation of this law through our amendments, given the fact that we've only had two hours to submit amendments. We thought it was very unserious, working from 22.00 to 24.00, and we didn't do it. However, we hope that the ministry and the ministry will have an understanding of the objections that we will make during today. This law regulates planning and editing of space, editing and use of city building land, construction of buildings, establishment of the agency and supervision. When it comes to spatial planning, we think it's a very important area that should be depoliticalized first. In fact, we are witnessing, first of all in the bar, that with every change of government, ideas are being changed, various competitions are being discussed. As much as memory serves, in a few previous terms, no matter what option was in power, we've been giving a lot of money for various competitions. People were getting awards, but it's never been realized. The intensity and our desire is for spatial planning to exceed the current local political frameworks. Of course, that's the goal at both the Republic level and regional level. The establishment of the agency also carries one danger, and we have repeatedly pointed to the danger of over-introduction of agencies; however, this republican spatial planning agency should replace the current Office for Spatial Planning and Urbanism, so there is a certain continuity. Yet, there is still a danger of alienation, that is, the creation of a center of alien power, where a certain force would concentrate in the area, where people would have to come and seek some consent in a condescending way. We believe that this should be very cautious, especially because the ministry should take responsibility for the functioning of the entire area. This is in some way relieved by Article 15, where the ministry is said to be monitoring and that the agency is obliged to submit the report twice a year. As regards the planning documentation and hierarchy of the planning acts, this is provided for in Article 16. In particular, I would refer to points 4) of the regional spatial plan and 5) the municipal spatial plan. As far as the regional spatial plan is concerned, it is expected to be valid for the province, for the city of Belgrade and for other parts of Serbia that can fit into a certain nomenclature. I think the rest of Serbia has been kind of neglected here, because to organise itself in this way, for an area of between 100,000 and million citizens, it is one political and territorial autonomy. It is likely that this law goes in a certain way in front of other regulations, since regionalisation has not yet practically taken place. I'd say in this part of the law goes before the constitution we expect. As far as urban planning is concerned, I would also remind myself that this local policy has a particularly high impact and that we in the Soviet Union want the influence of politics to be maximumly eliminated. When it comes to the Commission for Plans (meaning urban plans of the municipality), it is envisaged that the members of the Commission may be (this objection stands) only two mandates in such a commission. Even this law is fully accurate and says in Article 34 that the term of office of the president and the members of the Commission takes four years, with the same person unable to be appointed more than twice. This rule of law is too restrictive. We believe that experts in this area should have the opportunity to participate in such activities throughout their working life, and since it is a consulting role, even as pensioners. Thus, they are in some ways limited by the ability to work. The question arises -- how will one expert be able to work in commissions in two or more municipalities, which is also certain to happen, given that we have municipalities that have no professional capacity to cover this area. Therefore, Article 34, Article 3, puts in place a lot of restrictions which we think are exaggerated and we expect the ministry to resolve this in a manner acceptable to most experts and citizens through its sublegal acts, through interpretations. As for public insight, the provision to publish an invitation for public insight in a daily and local list can also be put under question, given the fact that it is a question - what is a single daily list. Perhaps, with all this, you should add the "Official Messenger", which all those who are serious and who want to deal with one area should follow, and the question of who reads which daily list is relative. This is what I'm saying in that negative case, if someone wanted to play something, so you would publish it in a daily list that is certain to be read very little, especially in the area where the plan act applies. When it comes to preparation and decommissioning, there is also a dilemma; we in the Soviet Union have concluded, on the basis of insights in many environments, that lately very often we have the opportunity to see how people manage on very small plots, in the cities themselves, create certain objects, precisely because of the inability to group plots, to create objects that will be proud of the city and where the city will be recognizable. Now we have a very charming construction. Of course, the answer to this is that everything is now left to the market and that the market will fix it, but still in our terms and in this country we can hardly rely on the market. When it comes to building land, as well as sharing in public and other building land, we are aware that it is a category that should only be properly regulated by a new constitution, but we also testify that this assembly has repeatedly, even by adopting important legal acts, violated the current Constitution. Very often this constitution is talked about with great mistreatment, and on the other hand, when we need it, we use it to attack one solution. The Soviet Union is extremely pleased with this solution to return the city's building land to transport. This is our urgency since coming to this congregation, and we have kept insisting on it. This is a transitional solution. As it turns out in practice, it's a question. However, if a new constitution is to be adopted and this solution is to be applied, the goal has not been achieved, as certain investment procedures, land transport, construction, investor arrival, domestic or foreign procedures are delayed throughout that period. When it comes to other building land, there are also several dilemmas. One is what happened to the land that was allocated earlier, let's say ten years ago; an administrative transfer was carried out and that award decision was now annulled, and the fee was made. We have such cases in practice and they can significantly affect further trust in this area and in this country. If we have an investor who paid the fee, it's all over, and now for certain formal reasons, referring to some of the regulations that are obviously anachrons, we undo such a solution and bring man to the starting position. He will say that, after ten years of sanctions and certain problems of formal nature, he now encounters one barrier again. The question is whether such an investor will remain in that role in one area. On the other hand, the question is, what about the money that man gave him and who's gonna pay him back? (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes?) Yes. The question is also raised, and this should be regulated by sublegal acts, whether it is now possible to execute the traffic of other building land in order to realise the plan, so that this is not one hypothetical category to which we will wait for years. We insist that this is applied immediately after the law is passed. Whether it will continue to seek the consent of the Ministry of Finance for the transport of other construction land and whether it will continue to have the treatment of the state, and given for use; these are dilemmas that are not exclusively related to this ministry and exclusively to this law, but are imposed in further realization and application of this law. If the rest of the ministries and other areas of life are an obstacle to the realization of ideas from this law, then it is certainly a failure to adopt it. You will save your soul, we will pass a law that is applicable, but if we come across obstacles with other ministries, that will be a problem. The issue of how the right to use will be translated into a property regime, except in those cases when vomiting is carried out, should also be resolved inter-departureally and answered by citizens and potential investors as soon as possible. As far as building buildings are concerned, it provides for simpler and faster procedures to be approved for construction, i.e. there is no form. A specific division has been carried out (i.e. Articles 88 to 102) who is responsible for any type of authorisation. It's pretty specific here. We have a provision where the ministry retains a very small number of facilities to build on the issue of approval. I would especially point out that this is about the permits granted for national parks. However, I would like to mention a drastic example here. We have a nature park that's not a national park and it's called Golia. In this park of nature wild illegal construction. I would especially ask the minister to record this, so let's hear his opinion of this problem. So are we just going to protect national parks or are we supposed to protect this nature that is also one great treasure? I've cited an example of Golia, where we have more than 1,000 illegally erected objects. They're raised by newly-roasted businessmen on land that isn't private property, meaning in this nature park. This will be a big problem the next day, because if one of these objects were to be destroyed, given that it is a mixed national environment, etc., it would also cause many other repercusions and bring this ministry into a very unpredictable position. As far as technical documentation is concerned, this law focuses on increased importance and responsibility of the profession. It seems to me that the reactions in that direction from the Association of Urbanists and others should be understood in the right way and people should point to what part of them is their responsibility, in which part is their obligation to what they sign and what they do. I wouldn't particularly stay there, given that an engineering chamber is being formed and that it, by its reputation on the bar, should be an independent organization. At this point, we have a situation where the ministry gives consent to the chamber's statutes, then the ministry oversees the work of the chamber, which makes the chamber a large percentage dependent on the ministry. Whether it will only be a transitional solution and whether the chamber will succeed in fighting for its independence depends on the chamber itself and its members. In any case, the chamber will preserve independence and be as professional as it manages to remove itself from the claws of the daily, local and politics at the level of the Republic. As far as responsibility is concerned, this law provides for penalties for administration. You remember that the Soviet Union insisted on this when adopting a law on construction, when a prison sentence is scheduled for up to three years for investors, for those responsible for those in public enterprises who issue licenses for connection to the electrical, water and other installation. However, the punishment for administration has now been imposed. Of course, something lighter, up to 30 days in prison plus a fine. In principle, the Soviet Union advocates that criminal responsibility be codified in one place in Criminal Law. Lately, we have a series of examples that different laws, which regulate other areas, are prescribing criminal acts. So far, practice shows that the fate of these crimes is such that courts do not take them seriously and that very rarely or not at all impose penalties under the provisions of these special laws, when it is not codified by criminal law. The Soviet Union, participating in the work of the Committee on Construction and Urbanism and in consultations with the minister and his associates, has made a number of remarks. Putting on the scale of the remarks, first of all this at the beginning of the statement, on the inability to react to amendments and remarks that will in practice prove to be in the realisation of this law, the SSJ put first and gave priority to those provisions of this law that are good for citizens. This includes, above all, the following: that the transport of city building land is possible, that it is simpler, cheaper, more rational procedure for obtaining permits, that in the construction phase a lot has also been simplified and that the profession gets its place. Also, we've concluded that corruption should be contained in this law as much as possible, so we're going to give priority to the good side of this law. I would also point out that, when it comes to legalisation, it is necessary to be precise and to give an answer, perhaps already from this pay phone or through sublegal acts that follow -- whether all will be equal in the legalisation process, which is very important and politically wise, given that there is a certain rematchism, that the current political power is being misused and that this area is being compromised in some way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28823	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? There's no sign-ins. ( ) We continue our principled debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word has been made by MP Dragan Milentijevic, the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, and the next is MP Milorad Mircic, the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28824	Mrs. Micic, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the text of the law on planning and construction and, as you certainly know, it is an extremely professional law. However, in some statements by previous speakers, the law has adopted some political connotations that are certainly not good. I must say that in these speeches I have recognized myself, both as president of a Serbian municipality and as vice president of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, means as a man of the profession. First recognition; there is no need for any of you to worry about how we presidents of the municipalities will pass when we return to our municipalities when it comes to this law. We know exactly what the problems are in this area. It's being solved in two ways in local self-government. First, if you have a problem with a law like this, which I think is really good, then the personnel solutions in local self-government aren't good, and then you're going to have to change the human resources. That's one way to solve that problem. Others, this law, like everyone else, can later go to some dora; therefore, this law has the right to be applied in practice, to show its good side and its shortcomings. My opinion is that it's going to show a lot more good sides, and then in a later period, we change all that. Second recognition; I can tell you that the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted almost half of the amendments; it was 80, and it was accepted around 40. It's the same story again, the same interpretation of who it suits. If the minister does not accept the amendments, then it is an inflexible minister who wants nothing to fix his law, and if the minister accepts most of the amendment, then you have another story; it is a story that the law is bad and that, therefore, someone wants to accept most of the amendments. I'm afraid, in this case, there's another story. This law, as you know, was in the government on 23 January, if I am not mistaken, so it was sent to the Republic Assembly on February 17th for consideration, and some MPs here were wondering why this law was passed in a hurry. In one sentence, I'll answer you. The law was due a month ago, because now it's the beginning of the construction season. I think those who do this profession know that well. Perhaps, unfortunately, killing the prime minister has delayed this item of the agenda, but in any case, this law should have been passed before. So, a large number of amendments are not a good story, I think that this law had a good presentation, that this is why a number of laws came from Vojvodina, via Gordana Comic and Bojan Pajtic, followed by a presentation by the Liberals of Serbia and other parties, and hence their amendments. So, a large number of amendments followed by a large number of amendments, and that was the Ministry's wish to fix this law. Basically, we have a reform law ahead of us. I know it's modern to say for all the laws that are reformable, but all those laws that want to make inefficient effective are really reformable. This is, in the opinion of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the reform law and we will surely support it for that. Construction is a branch that, when the country is in crisis, starts to die first, and you know it well. You don't have to be builders to know that, but it's also one of the branches that, when the country stands on its feet, starts waking up first. Construction is the profession by which this country is and how it has been recognized in Europe, richly and in the world. So we have a commitment as builders, like a country that's always had good builders, to have good laws in this area. It is true that this law applies to our country, but it requires a pile of paper to get a building permit to replace it with a much smaller procedure in order to obtain these papers. As you have heard from Minister Shumartz and the previous speaker, the law now connects four very important areas so far governed by special laws. Unfortunately, this law has been bad so far because it covered 30 different laws and 30 different regulations. Four things are connected: first is spatial planning, second is urban planning, third is building land and fourth is building and legalisation. Now it's all coming together and all those four areas you'll find only one place, and that's this law on planning and building. I'll just say for a little while, I'll go through the law, through all these four areas; the brochures you've got are very good and I recommend especially those who are not from this profession, almost all the important, elemental things in this area are in this brochure, so when someone asks you out of this profession -- what do you think of the law, you'll be able to say something about it based on this sizzer. It's very important to form an engineering chamber, it will issue personal licenses to spatial planners. As far as spatial planning is concerned, the legal solution brings this area into line with similar regulations of the members of the European Union, which is good. Plans will be made for the Republic of Serbia. This is, for one thing, a strategy for Serbia's spatial development, the National Assembly will be proposed by the government; and secondly, it is a scheme of spatial development, the government will propose to the resolution ministries. The new law also established a system of spatial plan, a regional spatial plan that brings provinces and regions, a spatial plan of the municipality and a spatial plan of the area for specific purposes. Before the start of the urban plan, a plan is adopted and at this stage all institutions, public utility companies and other institutions are obliged to give their data and all conditions of their jurisdiction, which is very good. Plans are very flexible; then, according to construction rules, the possibility of corruption is practically eliminated. Everyone called for it, so there's no need to tell you how much corruption there has been in this area, there have been other areas, but really the law has the intensities to reduce corruption in this area. Cities and municipalities; which is very good, we heard the word - decentralisation, and this is the right way, because cities and municipalities will be able to bring their own plans. So, cities and municipalities, depending on the size and characteristics of the settlement, will choose their own urban plan every four years; the general plan for Belgrade and other cities; the plan for general regulation; the plan for detailed regulation and the plan for the general arrangement. As far as the performance of the plan is concerned, new urban plans will be implemented simply and efficiently, each interested party will receive a copy no later than eight days from the submission of applications. We've got another weather station. The urban project, it is no longer a plan act, adopted by the Assembly, commissioned by the investor himself, for the purposes of parceling and preparation, is quite clear. The building approval is one very important segment and I ask you to focus your attention on that part, instead of all the conditions so far, the permits, the consent, the building permits, the new law provides for only one document, and that is this - approval for construction. The following things are attached to the request: a copy of the plan, an idea project, which is a newspaper, evidence of the availability of land or object. The approval shall be issued within a maximum of 15 days. Once again, a time instance, which is very good for this law. This shall not apply only to those objects which are of any importance to the Republic. The building approval will be issued by the local administration. In building the facility, investors will be spared consecutive controls at a new request and will no longer have to collect a number of consents for each stage. The new law also provides for cases that do not require approval for construction, which is very good. When it comes to adaptation and recovery, it's just enough to do the main project, report it all and start building. A still very important segment, the contractor bears criminal and material responsibility for applying construction regulations and technical principles in production, as well as for the quality of built-in material. Almost at the end, building land; so this law of building land is defined as public and other building land. Public building land is where public buildings and public areas of general interest were built. Second, the rest of the building land can be in all forms of property. Another very important thing is that there is a legal basis for unplanned construction, and urbanly acceptable facilities to obtain the applicable permits and to be entered into the immovableity cadastre. You know how many problems we have in all areas, including privatisation, because some objects aren't listed in the real estate pad. I think I've covered almost all the areas. I just want to say in the end that I really need to give this law a chance to show and prove in practice, that we are in practice seeing what interferes with the implementation of this law. It's a very good thing when it comes to criminal provisions. You know that in the previous law, and we spoke on the Committee, we sought the responsibility of the officials themselves. When we talked about amendments and additions to the Construction Act, which turned out perfectly in the field and stopped wild construction, we had a conversation about the fact that the officers were subject to criminal law and that in the area where the abuse of office was being talked about. In this story, it's something different and more direct. Therefore, the responsible public companies, unless they give their opinion and consent within 30 days, are threatened with fines or prison sentences. There are fines and prison sentences in the repeated violation. So, this law has covered almost all areas and I repeat that the Social Democratic Party MPs will vote for it. Since he is indeed an expert, and since there is no room for politics in him, I call on the other MPs to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28825	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milorad Mircic, the SRS parliamentary group, and then by MP Nenad Bogdanovic, the DOS-Reofrma Serbian parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28826	We are talking about the basic text of the law delivered to us by the ministry, but we are faced with the fact that 80 amendments have been made to this law, and 40 have been adopted by the ministry, or the minister. Most interestingly, almost all 80 amendments were proposed by the DOS. The basic principles of democracy, or as you like to say, of the good and fine conduct of a minister, if anything, if for at least 24 hours he tried to provide us with a review of these adopted amendments, or what the Ministers who are safe would do when it comes to such a significant law, that this law, with the amendments adopted, would present to the Assembly so that we could know what we are discussing and what the basic text of the law is. These amendments fundamentally amend this law, in all parts, as my colleague said nicely earlier, out of the need to commend the government, both in space and in urban and construction areas. In spatial planning, it is very important whether the DOS amendments change so-called. regional spatial plans. It was always or almost always a stumbling block when it came to spatial plans. Why? Because if regional plans for new amendments do not have to be part of the general spatial plan, then a fundamental problem arises. What can happen? You think that's funny? Lucky you, I would take your head once to rest from all this. What can happen? It may happen, now concretely, to make it clear to you, on the construction of the highwayBelgrade - Novi Sad that the regional plan of the autonomous province accepted by the Assembly due to the difference of challenges of such problems which we are not aware of. Those who are a little older and remember alive know how autonomists used to do it. They used all these inconsistencies and how they pre-prepared the variant of the Vojvodina from the toll ramp to be a special state. How they did it -- spatial planning. The spatial plan is an essential and strategic plan and how important it is for the whole state. I don't know what it's gonna look like when they accept the amendment, and nobody knows it. The minister told us he was an example of Austria, the laws of Austria. Mr. Minister, it's possible they're good laws. It's unnecessary for us to discuss it now, but we have different fundamental problems that we face. In Austria, the laws regulate the improvement of the environment, the humanization of living space, and we want this law rooted in cutting down construction crime. In this law, we want to introduce regulations that, in a ten-year period, when it comes to the spatial plan, regulate and define certain things. And not that we have things going on right now, the construction mafia has support in the law, and logistics in the government, or in the government, I apologize, to be clearer and more precise. There's no problem in Austria. Secondly, the structure of housing is completely different. You make such provisions in this law that if they apply, no one in this Serbia will be able to build a house. And to make a man in a country house, he has to hire a company to do that to him. No, Minister, you're from this profession, you know that individual housing houses build by means of friends, as they say to my phone. How are these people gonna get all those documents? It's interesting to point out, since it's a short time, advocating decentralisation, you're actually instituting complete control. To whom you explain that in the spatial plan of local self-government they have independence. Why are you serving this planning commission, whose third of the members at the local level are directly appointed by the minister, the government. If you weren't a little contrary to the Law of Local Self-Government, where you predicted except for the chief manager and chief architect. That's the man who's gonna be responsible for this on a local level. You are now completely taking everything under your wing, to dislocate the centre of future support for the local-level construction mafia at some higher level. Don't do that. What you're most boasting about, you should think about what a mistake you can make with your praise. You say, space is covered by a general urban plan, if it's not intended, it returns to its original owners, and on that basis many wild settlements are nickels, due to thoughtlessness. At least you could have consulted the previous minister, who is now and how party-friendly he is, except he's not officially in the DOS yet, but also how he works for DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28827	The word has a folk MP Nenad Bogdanovic, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, and then MP Rajko Baralic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28828	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, today we have a law on planning and construction, which we have long been waiting for in Belgrade. We've been waiting for him to be like this. I'll try my best in the shortest lines to say why we've been waiting. First, because so far the legislation, with our attempt to improve the Construction Act, was so you had further encouraging wild, not legal construction. In fact, the Law on Legalization is a real disaster for big cities, because it gives virtually every wild builder a chance to build a simpler procedure than the ones who are legally building. Secondly, let me tell those who never followed what it looks like to get to the urban permit, where you get consent, one 30 to 35, and then finish the urban permit, and then do the project, and then you get to the building permit, and then they tell you, well, all over again, because in the meantime, maybe something changed, and then you get through it 35 times. When you go into power distribution, into Belgrade water and sewerage, into administration, in each of these companies, from porters to directors you have to negotiate, you have to pray, you have to probably do some other things, you have to deal with every employee in that company to get to construction. We tried in Belgrade, using what the existing law says, to reduce the procedure, means to simplify it. That's where legal supremacy started. Thank God, how many lawyers do you think? Some of them explain that it's okay, the other one doesn't. The constitutionalists begin to call on the constitution, about how you broke the constitution by saying that you would only ask for consent once, not five times. A variety of other interpreters appear, and then you realize that you're dealing with such laws that it makes sense that you've had this kind of wild construction. If you forget human greed, if you forget corruption, if you forget everything else, you have a regulation that ruins both good ideas and good intentions. The law has done something that we, who run these affairs in local administrations, might not like. So we can say, well, our local administrations are becoming less important. I mean vice versa. I think it's perfect, that the profession should return what belongs to it. The waist must make final decisions. The administration must retain, including Belgrade, global planning, general planning, certain essential things, as defined by the law, and everything else has to be covered by the profession. You've had a very simple situation so far. All this administration, which took part in this and made decisions, whether it was in power, whether it was in the communal systems, had no consequences. They don't care if something good is going to be done or not. What they're interested in. They are interested in satisfying some of their petty interest, to charge a fee or to satisfy their personal interest. And it was a struggle that was terrible. The problem with the license is danger. It's no dilemma at all. It works in Europe. We have to create conditions, and that's where we're all going to work together to make sure that the Ministry -- if we see that it's not going, that we find some other form -- that we can get licenses to be divided fairly and taken away in a fair way. Now we only have one problem. We've had 500 so far. That's what I consider the advantages of this law. It is very important that we have implemented, at least for Belgrade, a deregulation in the making of regulatory plans. I have great respect for Belgrade's Urbanist Institute. It really contains top experts, smart people, who I've often talked to, but unfortunately, they're conservative, too. And they all know, and they're the only brains there is. It's always bad if there's only one mind in power. Smart must be in the profession. The profession doesn't have to be in power. The profession can be out of control. That's why this deregulation is so important. It's clear to me that it's the only way to get regulation right and fast. What else is good law? The law will ensure that this phantom legalisation, which was conducted in a completely abnormal manner under the 1992 and 1993 laws, is finally prevented, which is very important. There will be the main business of local self-government, to make all those who have been incredibly smart so far when it comes to urbanism, to do a very fast urban situation, to regulate it, to arrange it, to decide what can be legalised and what cannot. It must be not an individual's decision, not a father's decision, not my decision, but a decision of the profession. It's a serious job. I know Belgrade is going to have big problems, but we're going to try to escort them out. I could still talk about what's good and bad by this law. There will be other people who will talk about it. There are some dilemmas I'm afraid of. I'm afraid of the courts. That's what I'm saying very plainly. I fear the courts, as I feared in the previous period when we passed the Law on Courts, because it is terribly important that the courts sanction in an adequate manner, quickly and efficiently, what those in charge of it do, in an appropriate manner. Of course, this license thing will be a serious problem, but we'll all fight together. The inspection's got a new feature. She'll have to answer. He'll go to jail if he has to. That's important. But that's the question of the courts again, which is directly connected. What else was I gonna say? I must ask Mr. Michael once more that he never speak of Belgrade again. Why not talk? First of all, it's not fair to your people who work. The building permit for the Pinks has been betrayed by who. You know who the secretary was and you know what party he's from. If there's any problem, any illegality, please, gentlemen, let's find illegality in court. I have talked to all the people working on the job, several times, including all parties, including the Democratic Party of Serbia. No one ever told me there were illegalities in issuing that building permit. So, please, if there are any reasons, if there's any evidence of anything, let's go to court, let's clear up, make the right decision and punish whoever did something illegal. Say something about Schiller. .................................................................................................................... So Schiller began to be built when the Serbian Radical Party had power in Zemun, for three years it was being built. This government took the procedure and brought down Schiller's legal and legal procedure through the procedure. You can check if you don't know what happened. One more thing. I'd like to ask the President of the Assembly, and his deputies, when they're having a session, that if someone's making a lie, it's sanctioned. If they need proof that someone was telling lies, let's establish them, but to match the one who brought them out. Mrs. Pop-Lazic repeated a lie, which was told about this pay phone a year and a half ago. Mr. Ljubomir Angelkovic, vice president of the city government, was then accused by the late god that his soul was free, Mr. Tapi, that he was building some kind of house there, that it was his house, that it was his property, etc. I responsibly claim from this pay phone that the police, and the corruption team, have then checked, that all investors have been identified, that all owners have been identified and that Mr. Ljubomir Angelkovic has absolutely nothing to do with the building. Therefore, I ask the President of the Assembly that, unless the evidence is submitted, some other person, who is giving lies to this speaker, still bears responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28829	Right on the line, Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28830	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as far as Schiller Street is concerned, Serbian radicals were in power in the Zemun municipality until 2000. The land on which the facility Dusan Spasojevic was built was never owned by the municipality of Zemun, i.e. She wasn't registered as the bearer of the right to use. It was purchased by a private owner, built at the time of this government, and if the local government eventually gave permission, it did so by overstepping its powers. The permit could eventually have been issued by the City Assembly only through the legalization of the facilities. Whether there is a legalized object or not, whether the request is addressed or not, people from the City Hall know that. Don't call me here for some untruths about what I've read, which Tapi said in time about Ljubomir Angelkovic, and at the same time you're accusing the radicals here of something with which they have absolutely nothing to do with it. As for Mr. Angelkovic, I took this as an example, but I can give you an example right next to the house where I live, my mother-in-law and my mother-in-law, on a building plot on which a six-level facility was built, and the possibility is to build only five plus one, because it is an individual residential building. At the time the facility was started to be built on Chukarica, I was a minister in the government and I failed at this same Mrs. Angelkovic's office to make the construction inspection stop the construction. So much for that Angelkovic family.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28831	The People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word, and then the MP Bratoljub Janackovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28832	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Chacans of the Ministry of Construction, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... Milka Marinkovic: What kind of jeans is that? And you're Milka from Chuck. I'm wearing Genes as a protest because there's no public transmission. I dress unconventionally until they start transferring to the congregation. (Milka Marinkovic: You could come and go. Best take it off. We're having a nice chat with Milk. We can talk about decency somewhere else. We can read the stenographic notes. It doesn't say I throw anything out of place. Milka Marinkovic: When you're stupid. ) Mrs. Micic, are you able to give a warning once, just once in your life, Mrs. Marinkovic? Just once, because it's really not collegiate. (Milka Marinkovic: No. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28833	When all MPs stop earning then I can tell someone who only throws away, but since that's what all MPs do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28834	Since you are a lawyer, Mrs. Micic, then you tolerate someone else's injustice based on their own right. That's not good. The fact that there are several Chacans sitting in this ministry deprives me of the edges with which I could speak of the law, because I understand the eternal aspirations of the Uzicans to reach the Chacans, but they fail. We're running away from each other all the time. I wanted to say that the reasons for the Ministry to pass this law are understandable and I support them. The environment in which this law is passed, this assembly, is not the best, first of all, because there is no television transmission, there is not a single citizen in Serbia who has no interest in this area and I think it is a great handicap in the debate on this legal project, because indeed everyone is interested in how he can resolve the legal roof over his head. The man who can't solve the apartment has no perspective, he's hopeless, and so I think everything needs to be done that when the law is passed, with the amendments that are accepted, he's properly presented to the citizens of Serbia, because people need to know how they can build, what are sanctions if they break the rules, etc. The law is one thing, and life is unfortunately another. There is a so-called so-called "Serbs" in Serbia. The ring around all cities, which is usually unurbanized settlements, wild as they say, in which a huge number of families live. It's impossible to legalize them, and I have to say it's almost impossible to bring them down. In them live people, they have their own fates and their own problems. They were often forced to solve their housing issues, as previously said, because they had no other way to provide their family with some kind of roof over their heads. In Serbia, in the last few years, almost all families that had private homes on their faces of important communications have turned some of their houses into a commercial space, thus providing themselves with or improving the material position. This was most often not done in accordance with the laws. If that were not to happen, if we had implemented all this under the provisions of any law, we would have made a great deal of trouble for tens or hundreds of thousands of families in Serbia. I'd be happy to take a detour with anyone who says urban chaos is the product of this or that of the government. It is the product of certain conditions, certain circumstances. Few cities are as fortunate as Brazil to come into the meadow by one project. That's unfortunately far from us. Can we or can't we, are we able to organize the destruction of objects that don't have the right papers? It's easy to destroy objects behind which are dirty money, which are several hundred or thousands of times larger than what one family or one company needs. It's hard to tear down an object where there's a family with small children. We can't find an honest man in Serbia who wants to agree to destroy such an object for any money. So, Mr. Minister, both the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, you're dealing with a big problem, and I want to be honest that anyone who can help solve this problem, but to have, to the extent possible, tolerance and understanding for people who have been forced to build objects, to live in them, and not the frames to legalize them and not the frames to remove them at their expense, because they've had a dilemma: either they'll do any kind of object or they won't have any. Who once in the rain, on some cheap truck, moved his property and his little kids, well knows what sadness and coffee the pain is behind it. It's a completely different question, and I would support anyone who is capable of going through it, when someone builds huge commercial space, it does so by not consulting anyone, keeping it safe for armed guards, who, as a rule, do not have permission to carry weapons that they possess. I support everyone's efforts in the state to calculate themselves with such a calculation and to stop everything that they can do from making money that they don't own under any law. Here, Mr. Minister, this solution is commented on the adaptation and recovery of objects and the execution of works. You know, I've already talked about these great people in our country, that all because they had to make adjustments to the rules that existed, or by the rules that you're predicting, much of it would never have been done. A lot of things have been done wrong, and some things haven't. Is it possible that there's a certain degree of understanding here, because if someone needs to provide a project for all of this, they won't be able to expand the house they live in, to their new family, or to create a place on the ground floor, and to live upstairs? That's my particular question, and I'd like to ask you an answer. Just a short question - a letter was sent to all MPs for the return of the seized property, did you receive such a letter, if you could comment on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28835	The word is made by the MP Bratoljub Janačković.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28836	Dear Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the debate on the law on planning and construction that Serbia will quickly meet the challenge of regionalisation and the preparation of the standards for spatial planning in force in the European Union. On the road to accession, we are waiting to define that level of community in the area marked as NUTS II, which is the area between the territory of the state and the territory of the district, whose size is approximately defined by the population of a million and up to four million. These territorial units, equipped with autonomous authorities and rules, from parliament to government, from the laws governing space, to the law on the use of resources, will be carriers of integration, not national states. The organization of economics, culture and life in general, the potential to preserve identity and integration, will be sought in the territories and areas I was talking about. These autonomous territories can also be called autonomous provinces, we can also call them autonomous regions, but one thing is clear - citizens who do not put their autonomy, i.e. freedom of resource management, with difficulties will follow European regions and use their development chances in integration. In a previous debate on the principle issues of planning and arrangement of space, which they had, together with ministry representatives, supported, encouraged and encouraged ministry representatives and ideas of a strong regional dimension in the planning and arrangement of space. I must note that all the aspects that I am talking about, especially the European dimension, were present in the Ministry's intentions and were largely embedded in the projections of the law that is before us. We also had an idea to establish regional spatial planning agencies, by the government, and at the request of municipalities from the territory that corresponds to the size of the European NUTS II standard, so the size and future autonomous province or autonomous region. We felt that in regional space, centres should act to create a regional dimension of space, as factors of the profession that form awareness of the potentials of future regions, or autonomy. That's not irrelevant. The ministry foresees the possibility of creating a spatial dimension of development through a regional plan for NUTS II, but remains a well-centralised part of the centralised business in the making up of such visors. We also think it is a correct idea for spatial plans for current autonomy, future regions and the city of Belgrade to be called regional spatial plans. But we were also much clearer and much more concrete, that the spatial plan of the autonomous province was called a spatial plan of the autonomous province, and the spatial plan of Belgrade -- the spatial plan of Belgrade. Of course, the law doesn't stop it. We felt that an autonomous province could form itself an agency for spatial planning and the like, and that it was not necessary to solve it through a model of an independent, independent organisational unit, but an agency, in everything independent, which is the creator and promoter of an autonomous province's spatial plan. But if the principle, which it is, is that the independence of the regional spatial plan for an autonomous province is important, it is also important for the regional plan for other territories of the future autonomous region in Serbia and the City of Belgrade itself, perhaps even more important. The Liberals of Serbia will strongly support the intensities of the law on the setting up of public building land borders, the return of what was not brought into private property, freedom of transport and change of property over other construction land, which is the basis for city management. For this reason, we believe that the ministry's efforts to train the state administration for management are worth the attention and praise, and we will always consider investment and improvement of administration and administration in the area of planning and building to be a good state investment. With attention we will monitor and support the opening of competition in the area of urban planning. We welcome the simplification of the registration of legal persons for planning and construction activities. License by the profession is good, but it should be complemented by ensuring the individual by the consequences of a professional error in design and construction. We are left with a problem of republican ownership of state property, a problem of built building land which is essentially part private property and remains in state property. Also, we will monitor events in those segments of competition for the building space we call - other building land, primarily private property. The investor's competition for the purchase of spatial continents from private owners of building land, but also an interesting lobbying of municipal authorities to turn land complexes into building land will be new challenges. There is also the freedom of transport to transfer building permits in line with the change in ownership of building land or buildings, especially when giving up construction, demand for co-investor or bankruptcy. And finally, I want to thank the ministry's representatives for the understanding and time invested during the previous debate that the Liberals of Serbia had in their parliamentary club. As a result, an expert team, acting within and around Liberal Serbia, along with lawmakers, has proposed 18 amendments. One set of these amendments was adopted and incorporated into this law in agreement with the representatives of the ministry. The other half of our amendments couldn't have been incorporated into this law on this occasion, and we understand that. For these reasons, and by esteeming and respecting the efficient work of Parliament, our representatives have withdrawn the other amendments in the Committee on Construction. And quite in the end, Serbian Liberal MPs will certainly support this law, because it is a major step forward in regulating this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28837	There is a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28838	The Honorable Chairman, I understand the need to work quickly and that you want to pass as many laws as possible at the time of emergency, but therefore I ask you to provide a quorum for work. For this reason, in accordance with Article 82. Rules of Procedure, I ask that the quorum be established for the session to continue, as it is obvious that there are not enough MPs here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28839	I'm asking Members of Parliament to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28840	To introduce the order envisaged by the Rules of Procedure, I would ask the President of the Assembly to be principled and to apply the measures of the Rules of Procedure and when they should refer to the ruling majority. I therefore advertise Article 116's injury: "The MPs are obliged to use only their identification cards, as well as to identify themselves when entering the O.R.... ". Item 2: "For a MP who uses the identification card of another MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the President of the National Assembly proposes a distance from the session, and the vote in which the abuse was carried out... "and so on. So, I suggest, because of the abuse of other people's cards in row three and four, Mr. mustache, I don't know what it's called, and Mr. Milisav's measure to the Rules of Procedure, which could not be your discretionary right, but you'd have to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28841	Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure that it should be put to the vote? You know what, if someone was to be punished for abuse of identification cards and for failure to comply with the quorum, it's certainly the SRS. That's why I won't take it any further. If you are not satisfied, the answer will be given by the Administrative Board. Every day you enter after the quorum is determined, so that you will participate in the discussion and debate all day long. Now you're looking for someone, like, justice. On the other hand, I don't believe what you said. The word is from MP Petar Cvetkovic, the DSS parliamentary group. The next reported MP Melank Shandor, the DOS parliamentary group, is Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28842	First of all, we are witnessing, regardless of who is said to have a selective approach and selective application of the Rules of Procedure. (President: Please stick to the agenda theme. You're certainly not invited to talk about it. ) Thank you very much. I respect the warning and stick to the agenda. There is no such good law, neither in history nor now in any country of the world, which can replace the poor work of the government, the poor work of the authorities, the poor work of the government. Today's topic is the draft law on planning and construction. During 2001 and 2002, the public presented several versions of the law, which, without changing the essence of the proposal, changed the name, began from the construction law to the law on planning and construction. This proposal, today before us, contains the largest part of the provisions relating to construction. If we add here and the provisions relating to chambers, we can determine that the most important part of the law is at least covered by this proposal, which is planning. In doing so, this bill is not enough or is not clear at all what kind of planning this law is, whether it is economic, social, spatial, sectoral or otherwise. The Ministry’s intention, i.e. the Government, is to include a large number of social relations, i.e. the content of several laws so far. In this brochure, which we found, which most MPs praised, we found that this law, in addition to those four laws in the transitional and final provisions - the Law on building buildings, the Law on Planning and Law on Planning of Space and Villages, the Law on Building Land and the Law on Special Conditions for the issue of construction, or the applicable permits for certain buildings - replaces, if I have well remembered the figure, 31 more laws and about 35 sublegal acts. It's perfectly legal, and I've deliberately come from seeing what this law regulates and where the remaining 17 laws that cease to apply, whether they ever stop and whether they can stop, without being marked by transitional and final provisions. So, for another 17 or 27 (in accordance with the brochures) of the law that regulates these social relations, nothing is said whether they apply or cease to apply. This and these transitional and final provisions stand for one very large failure. According to Article 173 of the Law, it is predicted that the entry into force of this law ceases to apply these four laws, there is the Law on Building Land "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 44/95 and 16/97, but there is nothing on the provisions of the earlier law, of the same law, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 23/93, 53/93, 67/93 and 48/94, and these provisions of these amendments and additions to the Law refer, underlining, to the right to use on unbuilt city building land, to seizing it and obstructing the right to build. This would mean legal, since these provisions do not cease to apply by adopting the law, that these provisions should apply. However, the proponent wants to regulate those relations too. However, whether it's completely and legally, that's another question. Here comes a clean legal problem of law enforcement and the application of earlier provisions of the law and, with the proposal contained, because it needs to regulate a very large area, and social relations, it will practically prevent the application of such a law and create anarchy. I started at the end, and I'll go back to the beginning. Whether this law is good or not, to be exact so that there will be no laughing from the end, from the last provisions of the law, I will start now from the first. Whether this law is good or bad from the point of view of the profession, it may consider the profession. But if it is bad or if the Ministry and the Government is bothered by the Association of Urbanists of Serbia or Belgrade, it is much easier to apply the emergency situation in that association and to change the president or the holder of the government, or functions in that association, rather than to pass one such inconsistencies law, inapplicable; in it the provisions are contrary to one another, even in certain articles of attitude 1 is contrary to Article 3. We will come to this a little later, and now what is very important and what we forget, in every draft law, especially the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Serbia insists that the laws must be in accordance with the Constitution, or that they cannot be contrary to the Constitution. I see that for some ladies and gentlemen of Parliament it is a novelty, so I would suggest that at least a lecture is organised in the Assembly, and you have experts in both the Government and the Assembly, they are in power, to hold a lecture on the hierarchy of legal acts, and how they are arranged, and whether there may be a law contrary to the Constitution, and a regulation contrary to the law. Then everything would be clear. The DSS pointed out that the Constitution should be amended, the DSS advocates compliance with the rules, respect for the law, the basic problem of the ruling majority is that, as well as the problem of some past times, about as a problem that has been highlighted and in a letter to the Association of Citizens for Returning Taken Assets, which, gentlemen MPs, you all got or should have received. You will, I will only quote four words, that "the proposal represents continuity with the terrorist, communist and criminal systems", as we have in the past 59 years. That's not my opinion, I read it, I have a much nicer opinion on it myself, but it's certainly not a favourable opinion. So the bill is contrary to the current constitution. We will agree that the Constitution needs to be changed, but we will agree that the basic thing is democracy, the rule of law and legal certainty, respect for the Constitution. So we've heard that the aim of the replacement of these inadequate architects, the association of urbanists, but this law, when we read it, has the desire, the intensity to be the constitution, that it contains provisions which, by its essence, must contain the constitution, so this law introduces new institutes and institutions in direct contrast with the current constitution. We can consider one at a time, although there is not enough time, the basic opposite is with Article 60(1). The Constitution of Serbia. This is the case where the concept of public and other building land is determined. Public building land is not a concept established by the Constitution of Serbia, but a member of the 60th has made it clear that city building land can exist. I accept that this solution may be better. But I remind you that all the bill's proposals must comply with the existing constitution. Let's move on to the opposite of the Constitution; let's say, the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia is replaced by the strategy and the spatial development schemes. These are the members of the proposal from 17 to 19. This is in direct contrast with Article 72 point 9 and Article 73 point 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I must point out that the strategy, at least in my humble knowledge, cannot possibly be a plan document. The strategy is a means to achieve some of the objectives of the plan, not a set of those objectives. Only the plan can identify the objectives and to some extent bring different objectives and interests into line. To date, there have been over 15 different strategies in Serbia, which are obviously not covered by the bill or taken into account. On the other hand, we move on, we don't have a spatial plan at the state level, we have a strategy, so we have spatial plans at the level of AP, regions and municipalities, and we don't know what kind of solutions will give a new constitution that's being prepared, but also that we give authority to the AP and possibly the region, if it's under the new Constitution, it's completely different. The regional spatial plan, for example for the AP territory, brings an AP assembly to the city of Belgrade - the City Assembly, and for other regions, or regional areas - the government of the Republic of Serbia. So two completely different solutions. In one case, the legislative body, the assembly, brings a regional spatial plan, and in all other cases, the Government of the Republic of Serbia brings it to the region. Does this mean special and special status for the AP, whether these are proposals for a solution under the Constitution that should follow and that it does not look like an asymmetric Federation with elements of statehood. It was a total illogicality that the spatial plan of special purposes could be brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Afterwards, the latest proposal for the territory of the AP Vojvodina marked it as the Assembly of Vojvodina and for all other governments. Double solutions again and completely different. At city building land, except for the introduction of new categories of building land, where it is marked as public building land, I don't know what public building land could mean and what it is public, why it wouldn't be a transparent building land, since you like that word to use. Everything is transparent, transparent now is in practice what is hiding. So, instead of public construction, it could be a transparent building plot. Very little more, I will leave time and other DSS MPs with regard to the agencies very briefly. The competent ministry of some of its responsibilities is giving in to the agency, which is his right. The agencies, as well as this proposal, are uniting everything, including that the agency itself issues jobs, charges twice from the Republic budget and then controls its business, or work, which is inappropriate. Finally, I would like to conclude, there is a right minister, so far with a huge number of regulations has been very difficult, very bureaucratic, obtaining building permits and building buildings. Whether because of this or for some other reason, more objects have been built against the law than by building permits. That's what it stands for. However, these solutions are now reaching a different extreme, practically and do not require any control, especially from the point of view of state authorities and state authorities. It creates an opportunity for anarchy and inability to apply. Data solutions do not remove corruption, do not remove illegal behaviour, do not remove any discretionary rights that are interpreted in the law in a manner that corresponds to those who have arguments of fiscal or other nature. I will point to the illogicality and contradiction of the law on just one more case, which is Article 119. - deviation from the project. He says, "If during the construction of the facility, due to the changed circumstances that could not be predicted, it must withdraw from the documentation on which the building approval was granted, i.e. from the main project, the investor obtains approval for construction under the amended documentation, or amends the main project with the authority's confirmation of its admission. “ What changed circumstances? Whether these changed circumstances, as soon as they have not been established by this law, as soon as there are no firm and objective criteria, depend on discretionary will and the right to issue a permit for construction or depend on the size of financial arguments. This does not eliminate the possibility of corruption and poor work, this right now promotes the possibility of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28843	The People's Messenger Melank Shandor has the word, and the next is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28844	Well, if I started right now, fast and efficient, so I wouldn't start at the end, and at the beginning, and I ended up with the 119th member and so on, I'd be illustrating. I brought two photos. They just happened to be in my bag. This is what I did last year on Patricia Lumumbe Street, and I'm sorry you can't see it, and I'll give it to the minister. Sometimes pictures speak more than a thousand words. It's an object built without any permission. It was made by an urban mob. The facility later features balconies on two floors, through which the candelabra bander passed. It's so well-deprecated, it's very well done, and that contractor has to get a license to build, probably. Let's get serious and say one more thing about what's been happening to us in these past times and the past decade. It is likely that Mileta Svetovic best illustrated this in his book "Older and better-looking Belgrade", where Zemun was represented to a large extent. There are really impressive examples of urban imagination of the local administration, while the government was running the Radical Party, here we praise, I said Serbian, I know there is no Hungarian Radical Party. So that book speaks of why such a law is necessary. A number of locations in our country's territory, and very attractively, they're devastated by wild and unplanned construction, and they're likely to cross that figure somewhere and millions, millions of squares. By the way, in July 2001, when there was a Law on the Construction of Objects here in the procedure, I was talking about that building that was mentioned several times today. Mr. Bogdanovic also made it clear who signed that legalisation. I'm going to say once again, the inox and the glass that built the facility on Dedinj are actually a metaphor of haughtiness and disrespect of the Construction Act, even though that TV station here paid its haughtiness as it paid, it's not mine to judge, that's what the court has decreed, and it's now legalized, it's now a legal object. I must admit that commenting on the illegal destruction and construction on that television seemed a little hypocritical. So the intensity was not to bring down what could be legalized. That's how it's legalized and that facility. So it was legalized and many other objects that invested a lot of money and did not interfere with further spatial plans. What's caused this wild construction over the past decade? It was probably like this: a complicated procedure for obtaining a permit that lasted several months, even years; then, the slowness of the administration; bribery, i.e. bribery and corruption in the administration; then ineffectiveness in preventing construction. By passing this law, all these things want to be avoided. And how? First of all, by codifying four existing laws into one law. United laws simplify the procedure for obtaining a building permit and will now stimulate the construction of a building that has been legally built and seduced. In this law, some of the terms have been modified and amended, so that in the beginning we have explanations, this rodent one, which shows that this law is approaching the laws of the European Community and can enter into that compensation of European laws. Another newspaper is seen in the introduction of a spatial plan of municipalities, which is a sign of decentralisation in the functioning of this law. The Vojvodina amendments, adopted, mean that the construction agency will have its own unit in the province. That also points to decentralisation of the law. The protection of the profession, which I am particularly pleased with, is carried out through the building chamber. It's another newspaper and as one of the participants in the construction, I'm glad this law protects my profession as well. To conclude, these dozens of conditions of public utility, urban and technical conditions, where it could have happened, for illustrations to do so, that someone who seeks it is conditioned by certain things that act restrictively or blackmailingly, if you do not pay, is now unnecessary, not to require urban and technical and urban conditions, but rather a completely different procedure. You get an idea plan and a copy of the urban plan, with evidence of property rights or land use, within 15 days free hands to go into construction and to complete the rest of the documentation while you complete the facility. I think it will attract investors primarily, that more will be built and that there will be legal coverage of construction in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28845	I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28846	Why the replica? Base? Here you go. Right on the line, then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28847	The previous speaker, an esteemed colleague, was absolutely right about everything he said, calling the Serbian Radical Party, only not well informed. He was not informed that the Serbian Supreme Court confirmed that the Serbian Radical Party, all of what it was doing at the time when it was in power in Zemun, was working in accordance with the law. That Supreme Court is made up of the judges you chose. Therefore, we had no influence on them. They worked people according to the law. And that's true. And who issued the licenses for "Difens Road", for Spasojevic on Schiller Street and for many other facilities? You know who he is, City Hall. Zemun did not, at least he did not issue permits at the time when Serbian radicals were in power. You can check that out. Since he is a party colleague who also belongs to the City Assembly, he could tell us that she has obtained permits for her temporary facilities that she has in town, and there are four. No license, they were built without permission. It means abuse of position in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28848	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.35]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I agree that we have a quorum and that we can continue the principle debate on the draft law on planning and construction, according to reports for the People's MPs. The word has the People's MP Verica Radeta, the SRS parliamentary group, and then the MP Radojko Petric, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28850	Mr. Minister, you ran across the bill that you delivered to the MPs yesterday for a half dozen minutes. You have acknowledged that the law is reformable, that these laws address all possible issues and all possible situations in the area of planning and construction. If it wasn't for so many amendments, I'd almost believe you. I'm just wondering if these amendments were written by people from the ministry on almost every single one of them or if they were actually made by DOS MPs. If these are the amendments of DOS MPs, Mr Minister, then you should resign, because it is obvious that the people who elected you as ministers are not satisfied with your work. You have given us a series of alleged newspapers, which have not been regulated so far, which are not really a newspaper. You said no more building permits, now it's a building permit. The building permit is a term used by citizens in the daily conversation, and experts who worked on these jobs have adopted in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act of the Building Authorisation Decision and cannot be called otherwise. You also said as a newspaper that now consent to infrastructure connections is being obtained and requested from public companies. They've never looked for each other in bakeries before. So far, these public enterprises have been issuing consent to infrastructure connections. The other thing is how much it worked in practice, but the legislation wasn't so bad anyway. What fell into my eye is the fact that while you were talking about this law at no time, you didn't look back at Chapter IV, which is treated by members from 67th to 87th, and the building land may, in my opinion, be the most important part of this law, because there are no regulated property-legal relations, no planning, no construction. I want to point out a few interesting things. First of all, the bill, at least termologically, is contrary to the Constitution. Article 60. The Constitution only knows the category of city building land in state or social property. You may have used the terminology of your future DOS constitution, which is also not a newspaper, because I remember reading in 2001 a statement by Minister Gaš Knezevic, who said that the law on higher education was not passed, did not come into force, but is applied because it is good. This bill is contrary to the provisions of the Expropriation Act. The Expropriation Act provides for the mandatory determination of general interest so that the immovableity is expunged and there is no entry into the property of that immovableity until compensation is paid. You didn't see it coming here. You're the one who predicted that he would blow himself up, come back, and there's no way in the law to take-gives. The law regulates something, and it has to be applied. The bill you submitted yesterday was contrary to the provisions of the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. The law on assets owned by the Republic of Serbia does not know the traffic of rights of use, nor the lease in the way you regulated it by this law. You're predicting a lease at a certain time without determining which is the least of the time, and you expect a foreign investor to come and invest in a plot that you're giving him for a certain time, and he still has to put in a deposit of funds for the eventual destruction of that facility, and you're not saying that it's a certain amount of time, let's say for at least five years, so that whoever invests can calculate for himself, to assess whether it's worth it for the five years he can repay what he's invested and, of course, make a certain profit, because whoever does it without it. Also, this law is very skillful to try to put provisions on denationalization of land on a small door. You predict that you will return former owners of land which is not intended, and these former owners have already received compensation for this land. That is not how it can be regulated, and that is why for this law we in the Serbian Radical Party, our parliamentary group, no one can influence it and no one can scare it, will vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28851	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric, and then a National MP, Predrag Mijailović-Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28852	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, the draft law on planning and construction, which we are considering today, contains a lot of new solutions. It's discriminatory whether all these new solutions are the best. In any event, given the importance of this law, appropriate assumptions should be created that a constructive and comprehensive debate should be conducted in this Parliament. However, taking into account the fact that this session was scheduled only on Friday nights and that a large number of MPs for the session and its agenda were not available until Monday, there was no possibility of an appropriate amendment being submitted. At least that's the case with us MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia, and we're certainly damaged, because we won't be able to get involved in the debate in particular the way we planned. The impression is that the government wants to avoid a proper debate on the subject. It's unclear why it seems. This isn't any political law. This law is of equal interest to all citizens. The principle is forgotten that parliamentaryism is the essence of the debate, not the vote. Who has the majority can always pass the law and the legal solution as proposed. The principle that the procedure is the essence of democracy is forgotten. Gentlemen of the DOS, bear in mind that we opposition MPs also want to pass good laws. More respect our efforts to contribute through debate and through the amendments we want to contribute to the adoption of as high quality and better laws as possible. But to move on to concrete, not to repeat what has been said so far in the debate, I would like to put forward first the views that the SPS MPs consider should have been differently formulated in the provisions of individual members. For example, in Article 30, advertising should also be extended to other advertising means, not only in the daily and local list. There are municipalities that do not have local lists, and the question is how many citizens read certain daily lists where advertising is done. In order to ensure that citizens are fully informed, the possibility of advertising can and should be done in other suitable ways, such as local radio, television, posters, advertising tables and the like. In advance, it also applies to Article 53 when it comes to advertising the public insight before submitting a proposal for a urban plan to the authority for its adoption. Article 52 does not specify a time limit within which the commission is to carry out expert controls and draw up a report. The remaining is a completely open question, so the commission can, in its opinion, postpone it for as many days as it wants. In Article 76, it was intended to pay interest on deposited funds that serve as a reserve, that the municipality has a place to pay the costs, unless the tenant of the land within the agreed deadline itself destroys the temporary facility and removes the building material. It's a good thing this newspaper was introduced, to make a deposit, but it's really inappropriate if for years a temporary facility was placed at some location to keep that money standing, not to turn around and not protect that part of the funds. It should be borne in mind that deposited money has a price and that during the entire lease period, some benefits should be given to it. In market economy conditions, this must be taken into account. The one where the funds are deposited, which is the state's authorities, must be forced to think that money is spinning, whether it's for its own use, whether it's abetting him at the bank. To begin with, a modest interest rate should be envisaged, which would at least partially protect the depositor, and on the other hand would play a significant role in the education of an authorised authority of the municipality that we must all behave economically and entrepreneurially in this system, as if it were personal property. In Article 150, it is illogical to prescribe a penalty for the commercial offence of an undertaking or other legal person which is an investor, provided that the design and control of the technical documentation is entrusted to undertakings which were subsequently found not to meet the prescribed conditions for the construction of technical documentation for the facilities, and that there were no conditions for the control of the main project. How does an investor know that another legal person, who has accepted the production of technical documentation and control of the main project, has an employee with a license for the responsible designer and whether those persons have professional results, which as a minimum are prescribed by the Minister of Construction. In this case, prescribing punishment for an investor is the same as prescribing punishment for a patient who went to a doctor, went to a health center, and later it turns out that this doctor misrepresented himself, that he doesn't have a degree. It should match the medical center that received it for not checking it out and, normally, the doctor who abused it and did the job. For the investor, it is sufficient to punish that the competent authority will not grant him building approval when it finds that the technical documentation on the construction of the facility and the control of the main project has been carried out by an undertaking that does not meet the prescribed conditions. A special member should be provided for, and this has been missed by the Government, that payment of penalties should be subject to an undertaking which has accepted to produce technical documentation for the construction of an investor's account and to exercise control without conditions, or does not meet the prescribed conditions. I think it's really some frameworks that would be acceptable to carry out that supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28853	The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28854	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, the Proposal for a Law on Planning and Construction is one of the most important system laws, and especially given that by taking effect on this law, the four laws governing this area cease to apply. The adoption of this law should remove all legal barriers to investment in this area. Building a building operation by building houses, apartments, roads, infrastructures is being driven by the economy of the whole country, and these are in fact real reforms. The objectives of this law in any case cannot be challenged. It has positive goals. In view of this, I wonder why the government put such an important law in the assembly procedure, and it did not prepare a legal environment for this law to be enforceable in practice. The proposed law is contrary to the current constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The DSS stance is that no system law should be passed until a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia is passed. Only by adopting a new constitution can we break up with the old system and start real, true reforms, because they have done so to all transition countries, especially those that have brought real reforms and implemented the transition to the end, which makes it logical to conclude that by delaying the adoption of the constitution, the reforms are being postponed. That is why the DSS MPs will not vote for this law and suggest that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. That it's rational and the only real DSS proposal to withdraw the law from the procedure, I'm going to state a few reasons. Since the law has no constitutional basis, it cannot give legal certainty to the investor, and without legal certainty there is no investment, and the purpose of this law is to speed up investment, to bring investors from abroad and investors from the country. Simply, we definitely need to start thinking about long-term investment planning in our country, so we can't go straight after the law comes into force and lead investors astray, that they have legal certainty, and they don't; only some investors will be deceived and, therefore, there won't be an investment. For example, we have an example that, by law, I think should be regulated, and these are levels of different remuneration for building land. We have no division according to purpose - residential; business; industrial - zone. We left this to local self-government, local self-government will charge some sublaws for business space, for example. two to three times higher prices as compensation for construction land, which is not fair, because business space will later give the state through sales tax, through employment, etc. We must definitely start to think logically economically. That this law is simply inapplicable, let us take as an example Article 19(4), where the spatial plan of the specific purpose area is brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Autonomous Province Assembly for the area of autonomous provinces, on a proposal from the Agency. If we have agreed well and if this is to be respected, somewhere in August we expect a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia; it will most likely be decentralised by type of region, meaning making planning documents, or spatial planning, will be transferred to the region's jurisdiction. Thus, this member will be counter-constitutional. For example, the very term - the public building land - the present constitution does not know and cannot be considered as a category, so the promoter tries to be a constitutional creator and to categorize a new constitutional category of public building land. Article 70 of the Municipality gives the right to declare unbuilt land as public or building land, meaning it can be excluded from the possession of the users. That's fine, but there's no principle on which to exclude it. Because a municipality or this law has to say what the general interest is. If they don't, this member can be abused, so it can be a kind of nationalization of private property, and we know that private property is one of human rights. The proposed text does not clearly distinguish and precisely define individual property powers on public and other building land, which is a necessary prerequisite to avoid arbitraryness and confusion in interpretation and application of the law. In Article 79, seemingly part of the land in the state property (city building land) opens up the possibility of returning to the property regime of the former owner. However, such an almost identical possibility was taken from the existing law and did not produce any results in practice, as the courts took the view that the land that became state based on nationalisation could not be returned to the earlier property regime. Here's another piece of evidence that we first had to make a constitution, and only then would we pass this law. Article 84 provides that an earlier owner or his successor has the right to use on unbuilt land in state property. This is a generally good solution and represents a significant change from the current law. However, the problem arises when this member is associated with Article 81 and Article 82, which gives the municipality the right to lease construction land in state property. This, therefore, only in other words was given the right to the municipality. The question arises - how can it be given the right to make use of the right of the municipality's land user? What is the right of disposal established for the benefit of land users, if the municipality is in a position to rent land, in fact, literally subtract land from the users, and then assign it to another person? This does not regulate the procedure and way at all, nor determines the right to compensation for land, which is practically taken away from the user and given to another person. We all have to come to our senses once and for all to build the house from the ground up. That is why the constitution must first be adopted and the system laws adopted after the constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28855	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic. The next person registered for the word is Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28856	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, we have before us a bill that has long and thoroughly been prepared. In the process of making this law, everyone could take part, make their proposals for solutions and ideas. The ministry, headed by Mr. Schumartz, was heard and therefore today we have a bill that is commendable. In fact, through the bill, the proposer has achieved an obvious intensity, which is certainly indisputable among all parliamentary groups, which is to stimulate construction as a kind of momentum of economic development, to stimulate foreign investment, and in particular domestic potentials through the market where all the entities will be prepared and able to compete in a game where the award is a business gain for entrepreneurs and general progress for our society. The promoter's intention was achieved through the following: instead of dozens of regulations, which the law, which sublegal acts, the whole matter is governed by one law. It is commendable, because the idea of a legislator is that matter be codified. It is a relief for everyone, and everyone will welcome it except for one who, as our people would say, likes to hunt in a cloudy manner. It is a relief for those who apply the law, as well as for those who exercise their right under its provisions, because it is clear that procedures, rights, obligations and responsibilities have been established in one place. The legislator should be consistent and concise, and this is what he is. In this law, procedures have been significantly simplified. They are in line with the parallel practice. Urbanist plans will be implemented quickly and simply, under the obligation of the administration to respect a very short deadline of only eight days for a copy of the urban plan. When we add an idea project to this act and, of course, evidence of land availability, an application shall be submitted to which the response must be received within 15 days only. A positive answer is a building approval. On the basis of the approval for construction, access is made to building a facility. Given that the process of issuing a building permit so far has meant a very complicated and long-term procedure that could have lasted for years, it is clear that the proposed change of essential character has been proposed. The act permitting construction is no longer aggravating factor or perhaps even a palarizer of legal construction and a certain generator of illegal construction, but a simple and efficient instrument providing the participation of the state to the extent necessary to protect the general interest, but at the same time the interests of all those entities involved in the construction process in any role. Building land is divided into public and other building land, which can be in all forms of property. Here the promoter has shown meaning for what awaits us and by allowing former owners to transfer the right to use unbuilt construction land, legally, without winding up, untrusted contracts, but also to third parties, who obtain it without fear, because it is now legal work governed by law. In this domain, the law is so well-conceived that it is fully compatible with the changes that will bring about a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this area. The bill unequivocally affirms construction. This seems to be the solutions of the article. In 77 and 78 relating to the payment of the charges for use and the accepted solution from the amendments of the Members of Parliament of Hope Kolundzhija, which determines the payment of the compensation according to the greatest plan allowed for the construction index. This solution motivates property owners, i.e. land users to bring in land intended or offered to buy it to the municipality for the purpose of bringing it in. This is a way to overcome long-term and often failed attempts to resolve property-legal relations in order to access the construction and realization of what is planned. The construction of an afirmic solution from Article 86, which provides for clear deadlines in which the construction of a building must be completed, i.e. land to be taken into consideration. Today we have a situation that the entire blocks, a solution from 5, 6, 10 years ago, are entrusted to various entities for construction. All the possessions, unfortunately, were not brought into custody because of negligence, incompetence, or some similar reason that did not justify it. A direct loser in this situation is a municipality, or city, that is, society and our state, because it blocks the building and bringing in land intended for purpose. It is particularly important to accept amendments that prevent a long-term dispute following the decision of the municipality, i.e. the city, or the ministry. The bill also provides for a far more efficient system to combat illegal construction. Irregular construction is unthinkable and double. First, far simpler and more accessible procedures for construction, from making planning documents to issuing approvals for construction. If the lack of planning documents and extremely complicated procedures were the generator of illegal construction and what kind of justification for it, these solutions no longer stand. Second, the competent authorities are given clear and effective instruments to combat illegal construction, avoiding long-term and complicated procedures for treating illegal construction in the administrative process, which is absolutely inappropriate for lawless builders. Approved amendments to Art. 141, 145 and 155. Unlawful builders are treated in a way that resembles a seriously organized society, as well as a social danger that represents this kind of present-day incriminating behavior. This bill particularly insists on responsibilities. That's very important. Part of the problem in this area was because it was not known who was responsible for what and what sanctions he was carrying for his responsibility. Responsibility as a principle in this law has been consistently implemented from provisions relating to the engineering chamber to the provisions of chapters 9 and 10 relating to the conduct of authorised persons, as well as criminal sanctions, commercial offences and offences. It is necessary to protect citizens' rights, but of course general interest. I believe, therefore, that there is an uncontested good law ahead of us, however, there is much work, especially on drawing up planning documents, we need to distinguish public and other building land, and it is particularly important for us in Belgrade to determine in an adequate way how we will apply the provisions of this law and especially the distinction, given the provision of a 95th member of this law that exercises jurisdiction. This division of jurisdiction is very important because it is at the same time a clear division of responsibility. We can expect this law to initiate a small "Nenj deal" in Serbia, a momentum that mass construction gives for a complementary industry and already part of this construction season, and certainly the next construction season. The importance of this law is great, the quality it also brings, but it is great and our responsibility in its application. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28857	The word has been given by MP Stevan Kesejic, the SRS parliamentary group, and then by MP Golub Rajic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I consider the draft law on planning and construction we've heard here from the promoters to date one of the worst laws Parliament could hear here. For these reasons and others we have already heard here, the SRS parliamentary group has not tabled amendments to this law. By listening to the promoter, Mr. Minister, that by passing this law, it would be a very big invasion of a foreign investor in our country, I was just scared. I was scared because it brought me back to some time in the 18th century when that land was promised in the wild west and when they all rushed at the mark of one of the leaders of those who were to possess certain territories, that they would literally run us over. But when I read this law and got to the 70th in this law, then I saw that the retardation was done here. In fact, we quickly arrived at the beginning of the 20th century, more precisely in the 1950s, when, by law, expropriation was made, which is now foreseen by this law. There's no difference here between the expropriation at the time and the current one that's regulated by this law. What is essential and what the SRS thinks will not be applicable to this law is to transfer competences to municipal local self-governments, which will not be possible because of expertise and also because of financial inability to implement what is provided for by this law. In fact, it would be very nice to have a decentralisation. However, this is just one floscule and a beautiful wish, this cannot be achieved, above all, given the difficult economic situation in most municipalities in Serbia. The members of 44 and 89 speak about the jurisdiction of municipalities; they should update the cadastrian bases, then provide for an update within a certain period of cadastrian bases and, if they are not able, the Ministry of Urban Affairs will do so on the cost of the municipality. Also, in Article 89, or 168 of the municipality, or city, there is a period of 18 months to bring a spatial plan. I really don't know which city council has a chance to do this right now. Given that neither the political nor the democratic ambience for such a thing has been created, I believe the municipalities will not be able to do so, so these obligations will have to be carried out by the agency, or the government, the competent ministry that is legally and binding here. That way we create a monopoly, it's going to be run by the government, and I think it would be better if we could control the urban mafia, to prevent it from doing what it did and in that way, so we could bring these laws into a more normal environment that resembles both economic, democratic and political conditions in our country. I think there's just a name swap here, that now the urban mafia is going to be called another name, and I don't think it's going to be a mob, but it's going to have the authority that the mob took from the state. For these reasons, I believe that this law, indeed quickly passed in extraordinary conditions, should be withdrawn and that you should really consider other experts besides those with whom you have communicated and who have proposed it, and to pass a law more appropriate for our current political, economic and social conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28859	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic, the SPS parliamentary group, then MP Branimir Trajkovic, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28860	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the agenda of the National Assembly of Serbia, which was scheduled so that we had no opportunity to submit amendments, is the draft law on planning and construction. This is another reform law, as well as the system law, because the matter covered by this law refers to planning, construction land, construction and has been arranged so far in four laws and through a number of sublegal acts. It is an interest for all political and other entities to make the law as high and better as possible. In addition to everything he offers, it is a pity that there was no time for the amendments to be fixed by the opposition, because the adoption of this law should create a basis for one law to regulate the entire matter, which makes it an integral area by nature. The fact is that there are many problems in this area and that urban reality is ugly and depressing, that there is dominated by the difficulties of a medium urbanised but also poor society in transition. Therefore, the new law must come from the knowledge of the unfavourable situation and to find a rational and pragmatic way of changing the situation. It must enter into the implementation of plans, self-editing of space and settlements, in which so far the greatest weaknesses of our urban laws have been. However, the bill does not offer continuity, but rather a complete negation of the found, complete derrogation of the existing plans, as well as complete destruction of urban institutions, which is not good, because the founding situation cannot be changed by complete destruction, but by a long reconstruction. It is not good that this law is passed before the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia is passed, and this proposal is quite contrary to the principles of the current constitution. We do not know how and what, under the new constitution, the Republic will regulate with regard to the protection, use and arrangement of the area, which are its obligations and competences, what further division of the level from the Republic through the region to the local communities. Contrary to the current Constitution, the spatial plan of the municipality should bring the municipality’s assembly; the transformation of city building land into public works shall reduce land in state property into public areas of general interest; the discretionary right of municipalities to declare, through the adoption of certain acts, that the city’s building land will be alienated or maintained in state property. The call for a spatial plan covers the introduction of a discretionary right for all levels of governance to determine the conditions under which an investor will be able to obtain an act on the basis of which a building permit is issued. The municipalities are given the opportunity to prescribe closer conditions on the land and construction of all buildings for which they issue a building permit, which is the legalisation of bad practice, to establish urban and technical conditions based on existing urban plans, and based on the spatial plan, and increasingly and without urban plans, and to issue a permanent urban and construction permit. The law should sanction bad practice and not legalise it, and the proposed solutions allow for the issue of building permits without any plan at all levels of governance, i.e. the Republic shall be governed by the Constitution of established rights and obligations. The basic question is who and how, by what means and under what conditions will edit most of the urban and rural settlements, especially the illegal ones, where the land is private property. If citizens are expected to organise, finance and implement it themselves, then what is the local level of governance and why tax resources for its financing would be spent. Then why the legalization of illegally raised objects and the payment of various fees and taxis. Protection, organisation and arrangement of rural settlements and areas are not present in the proposed legal text. The mention of the village settlement is only about regulatory plans, which are tailored by content to the needs and problems of the urban settlement, which is worse than ever before. Legal solutions identify the public interest with the general interest, which is determined by law by the procedure of expropriation, while in developed European countries it is a practice to establish public interest in the process of spatial and urban planning. Public participation and various actors in the process of spatial and urban planning has been regulated in an inappropriate manner. Time limits are the possibilities of participation compared to existing solutions. Instead of looking for solutions to increase the participation of both the public and the actors in order to democratisation the planning process, this law does not actually exist in decision-making and building space, which is absolutely unacceptable. The proposed solutions have the urgency of establishing a higher degree of centralised governance at the republican level than the current one, contrary to the declared decentralisation and democratisation of the political and state system in Serbia. The agency is given all the powers, so it manages, gives itself jobs, same twice from the budget it charges itself and controls itself. The unique solution is also the engineering chamber, which carries part of the work from the authority of the resolution authority, which is acceptable when it comes to construction. It is unacceptable when it comes to professional business in the domain of identification and protection of public interest. Since the bill provides for the possibility for urban plans to be developed by enterprises, i.e. other organisations set up by the municipality to carry out urban planning operations, this should also be possible for urban projects in accordance with the law. The municipalities also have practical and economic reasons to trust their companies, i.e. organisations to develop urban plans and urban projects. Data is the possibility of drawing up urban plans that are more complex acts and should be given the opportunity to develop urban projects, which are closer to developing urban plans. It should be possible for the technical documentation for the construction of a family residential building and auxiliary facilities for the needs and needs of members of its family household to be designed by a citizen who has at least the highest professional equipment of the relevant profession and design authority, in addition to enterprises, legal persons or actions entered in the relevant register for the production of technical documentation, and this solution has been envisaged before. Finally, to say that this, as well as other proposed laws, is very repressive and that criminal provisions are prescribed very high repressive measures, both for businesses and for the right persons and now for local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28861	The word has been made by MP Branimir Trajkovic, the DSS parliamentary group, and then by MP Slobodan Janjic, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill deletes all the old solutions and doesn't offer much better than the existing ones. I will remind you of Article 173 which states on the date of entry into force of this law that the Law on the Construction of Objects, the Law on Planning and Construction of Space and Villages, the Law on Building Land and the Law on specific conditions for the issue of a building permit, or the applicable permit for certain buildings, shall cease to apply. This law will cause complete destruction of urban institutions, total discontinuity and negation of all existing ones. We can't help but notice that it's not possible that everything so far has been bad, useless and harmful. If it is, Mr. Minister, in the last two years, we could have arranged at least some part of this area. The concept of the text of this law should be based on the specifics of the new constitution, which has yet to be done and on full affirmation of local self-government and decentralisation. Instead, the law begins with a presentation of the Republic's spatial planning agency, which is a reflection of the concentration of power and unconstitutional reach in the rights of local self-government. The DSS resents the proposal for a law on planning and construction is that it comes from the assumption that Serbia's space and settlements are "tabula rasa" on which only now the new law will create urban thought and action, bring spatial plans, urban plans and edit and build settlements. The adoption of this law devastates the state and its powers are transferred to individuals and certain organisations, allowing (1) centralisation of governance at the republican level; here we must note that there are no control mechanisms; (2) transfer of authorities at local level from the electoral authorities to groups of individuals, also here without control of their work. The local level of governance regarding urban policy does not exist at all. This is contrary to the Law of Local Self-Government where the city architect is tasked with designing an image or the face of the city. If we're at the community level, I have to look back at Article 70, dedicated to determining public building land. It is determined by a general act. The municipality determines building land for public building land within two years of the date of entry into force of this law. On the day of entry into force of this law, the five laws of Article 173, including the Law on Building Land, cease to apply. It is quite clear, Mr. Minister, that this law cannot be applied, because the question is which law will apply in the meantime to countless situations that we have daily in practice. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is also necessary to point out the problem of resolving the state of property relations on city building land, especially today when we are facing legislation on denationalisation of land and buildings and when we are in an accelerated phase of privatisation. That is why it was necessary to pass this law after the constitution of Serbia and the law on denationalisation, which the Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the Assembly several months ago. What the Democratic Party of Serbia also points to is the separation of public and private space, although the city must be viewed as one continent. This whole, meaning the city, is going to be left to the market for strategic and general planning. If this and this law is passed, architects will have much less work to do, and urban institutions will only be in charge of drawing plans. It is also evident that there is a problem of wild construction, which is present in all cities. In most cases, the municipal administration is to blame. With bureaucratic behaviour, the poor organisation of work on issuing building permits, where it waited several months to a few years, thus contributing to investors starting without permission to build buildings. It's the biggest loss of the municipality, because the money collected from the issue of permits is huge. It is certain that there are some positive solutions in this bill to shorten the process of obtaining permits, but it is a minimum in this law; it is very wide and edits several areas. Therefore, it might have been better to revise the existing Construction and Repair Act of the existing institutions, until a new constitution was adopted and then joined by a new law. The effects of implementing such a law will be contrary to what the Democratic Party of Serbia advocates, which is decentralisation of the government and democratisation of the political and state system in Serbia. This bill reminds the state planning committees of Joseph Broz, unfortunately. The Democratic Party of Serbia proposes that the law be withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28863	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word. After him, MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by a bill like this, you have failed the citizens' expectations that, as part of this struggle and emergency, you will end up with the urban mafia, and therefore withdrawing such a law from the procedure. By passing a law like this, not that you won't attract foreign investors, but these domestics will run off with their heads no matter what. The bill promoter said he failed legalization. Normally, when prices agreed to pay and legalize some of the facilities were not suitable for the population's purchasing power. Also, you haven't explained to the citizens, let's say that the legalization of a wild settlement would be carried out, that exactly and honestly all the funds collected will be spent in that village, so the gunmen would be willing to pay for legalisation, but to make sure that the legalisation funds are used to solve their problems. By coming to power and implementing your policy in this area, you have put a lock on the door of all construction firms, which have been on a good path to recovery, because after the destruction and destruction of NATO criminals these capacities have been placed in the role of rebuilding the country. Not only did you stop the completion and repair of the damaged and damaged objects, but you didn't pay the performers until the work was completed. Namely, you deceived them. You called on the representatives of construction firms at the Ministry of IG, promised to pay them the services you had done, asked them to take the prices off by 20% to 30% of the prices agreed. When they agreed to it and signed it, then you refused to pay them anything more. We have such companies in the south of Serbia, which you turned black because you didn't even settle their basic cost of re-competitions that they spent during the repairs of these facilities destroyed in NATO bombing. My deep belief is that you did it on purpose, because in addition to shutting down construction firms, you also struck other industrial branches that are related to construction. That left hundreds of thousands of people out of work. Instead of polychlorine and other building materials, you're worried about running out of cholesterol and I'm sure there's even one in the stock reserves. It's better to have painted facades than to have individuals in power paint beards and mustaches. I expected the opposition's strongest argument would be that the bill would be poorly opposed by the building minister. But the most excited were the president of Belgrade's Executive Board, Mr Bogdanovic, constantly getting speakers from the bench. I propose, personally, that the Assembly form a polling committee and examines the allocation of all attractive locations in Belgrade and Novi Sad, because you are from the media, as well as from the mouth of the proposings and the head of the parliamentary majority heard that the mafia is the main one in this business, that it is paid and paid for by a large racket to those who decide to give locations and permits. What else are you doing? Here in Belgrade, this poor girl, who has kiosks, one week you take them off one street, after seven days, some other people come to the same places, set up similar facilities. And who does that? Of course it's the urban mafia. The second is to remove them and never place a kiosk or a trade there again. In seven days, however, some other people come. The best thing to do is to grow up with the urban mafia as soon as possible, because it's very humane. These people will go to jail very soon. The sooner they go to jail, the sooner they get out. So he'll get out of jail younger. Of course, then there'll be a sit-down. And it's no shame we didn't make the amendments to this law. You deceived us in the procedure, gave us two hours to submit the amendments. A thousand amendments is a little bit to fix a bad law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28865	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. After him, MP Slavoljub Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28866	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, there is no minister, Members of the Socialist Party feel that the idea of adopting the Law on Planning and Construction is positive in its essence, because it is nothing wrong, we even think it is good that the laws governing this matter, and there are more, than the Law on Construction Land, through the Law on Planning, the Law on Construction, the whole series of amendments to the laws, the regulations adopted in 1995, 1996, the unification. There are many benefits, and it will also benefit the citizens of Serbia. The procedure will be simplified, the possibility of subjective interpretation of laws will be reduced by those who interpret the law and a whole series of useful things for Serbian citizens. But what has astounded us and casts a shadow on the adoption of this law, and not only on the adoption of this law but on parliamentaryism today in Serbia, it is the way this law is passed. At the very least, we were amazed to learn that the law was included in the agenda 24 hours after the deadline for submitting amendments. I can tell you that we have 26 amendments written and that this way of communication in parliament does not cast a shadow, but represents the darkness of parliamentaryism in Serbia. A lot of people were talking about media darkness yesterday. I think it's much more dangerous this darkness of parliamentaryism and communication among MPs in this way. Maybe it's a dark and mild word. My colleague, Hranislav Peric, has a good saying, says when it's more than dark - darkness, brother. I don't think this is a way to communicate. I'm a little comforted that when I talked to some serious DOS MPs, I saw that they were confused, too, they couldn't understand why, as well as in this way. Even more today, it hurt me as a man to explain Mr. Pitiæ and some MPs that everything is in the process. We're not little. We know that the law came a month ago, however, there is some good parliamentary practice of our past period. Two months is the law of procedure. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have 107 laws in the procedure and don't tell us we need to write amendments to 107 laws. A year ago, the railroad law came in and we have 107 laws in the process. You didn't expect us to write amendments to all 107 laws, to withdraw laws and play games. So it was college at least, that three days before all this, the President of the Assembly would inform the presidents of the parliamentary groups that most likely this law would be in the process. It became a little clearer to me today why it was done. Mr. Pajtic and Mr. Minister of Explanatory Law have said that this law is a minor of some kind of genius law, so they probably didn't want the MPs of the opposition, and we might have been ready to vote for this, participate in the adoption of such a genius law. I said the law has good sides, and we're ready to support what's good. We think even that the principles and principles, the objectives of this law, are quite good, are appropriate to some contemporary movements, and that was not controversial. You're still suffering from syndrome, which I hope will heal over time, and that's politicizing everything and everything. You and this law have been politicized. I'm listening to your stories about illegal construction and you're always talking about someone in third party, someone third, and you forget that since 1996 in the 50 largest cities in Serbia, there are oppositions in various forms, and at least these things should have been looked at realistically. We're all aware of the problems of illegal construction, and we're always ready to get in the way. What's even more concerned is that last time I said it was going into the pathology of opinion, but it's already going into the pathology of action. It's a story and action on discontinuity. Ladies and gentlemen, that didn't bring happiness to anyone. I liked it today that Mr. Pitiæ, when I heard what he was saying, was convinced that everything started with DOS. I'm concerned not that you're saying it, but that's how you start thinking, and it's very dangerous, and it didn't bring anyone luck. Look at the spatial plan, the part that's talking about the spatial planning strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, there are professional people here. The spatial plan has been done for seven years. All institutions, under the circumstances I was involved in this, from the Faculty of Civil Engineering, the Association of Architects, there is no professional institution in this country that means anything without participating in the development of a spatial plan. Billions were spent, field shots were taken, the spatial plan was brought in. Now I read that there will be a strategy of spatial development, and the spatial plan will be valid until a strategy is adopted. Are we so rich a country that for reasons of discontinuity at all costs we leave something that no one in professional circles has seriously condemned, and it is a big thing, I don't know if you've had a chance to see, to read, about something that regulates Serbia's development over the next 20 years. I accept changes resulting from circumstances, changes in corridors or something like that, but I couldn't find a reason for putting a document like that out of force. The only thing I may have realized is that this project was led by Professor Branislav Ivkovic, who is today leading a task force that you have realized is working against you by giving you quorum and voting for your bad laws, wants you to bring bad laws, to remove you from power as soon as possible. You've figured that out, so you're about to put that spatial plan in an ad act. I don't think it's good and it shouldn't work like that. You've brought that down to lower levels. I will mention members from 88th to 98th who regulate construction. With too much optimism, you're talking about speeding up the authorisation process. I agree that it's very good, and I say hello, for seven years I've been president of the municipality and I know how sick it is. I've changed the six sets that worked on these jobs, and it's very good that the number of consent is reduced, that it doesn't need 30 consent, but these two you left in practical application, means a copy of the urban plan and evidence of ownership, can in practice give citizens enormous trouble, because a citizen has to bring a copy of the urban plan, and in order to bring in a copy of the urban plan, the urban plan must exist. There is no minister, I am sorry, to tell us how many cities in Serbia have general urban plans based on which regulatory or urban plans are being made afterwards. There are very few of them, and you, here I'm adding to my disontinity story, stopped the adoption of plans in over 50 cities, although they passed a public discussion, were brought in just to change something just to change it. That's where the city building directorates and urbanists set up for you. They're like those lawyers. You know when a father criticises his son for solving a lawsuit. They're looking forward to someone saying that this urban project is not good, the general plan is not good and we're doing a new one. It's done again by those who have worked before. Therefore, I think the issue of building permits will be a major problem due to lack of urban plans and evidence of ownership. Remember, we're on our own with some friends from the DSS, when we passed the Real Estate Catastre Act. You swore that within a year, in two years, you would establish a complete catastrian operation in Serbia. I'd like the minister to come out and say how long it's been in Serbia with that. These two issues will be a practical problem in solving the acceleration and in the good intention of the legislator to regulate this very important area; believe that we all care about the regulation of the area. I'd like to say one more thing about law enforcement. I have the impression that the minister is approaching the professor's idea. The law when read for me is good and gives fine solutions that can serve as a handbook for students how urban plans, projects should be made, how licenses should be issued. However, when you get down to practice, face life’s problems and I think there will be enough, as it has been, because good marriage law does not mean a good marriage. You write a good law, ideal, but marriage breaks. Thus, a good law on planning and construction does not mean that it will solve all problems. There's a big fight coming up on the ground. The bureaucracy is the same, it was in every government the same, and it's hard to deal with. I welcome the adoption of criminal provisions for the administration. I think it'll partially improve the situation. In criminal terms, I think he's getting too irrational about it. Article 161 of the transitional and final provisions says that anyone who does not have and does not obtain a valid permit within six months will pay a hundred-fold fee for the use of construction land. It's a mini fairy tale like this. I don't mean to harass MPs, but I don't think there's a couple of MPs in this room who have houses, and they're allowed to use it, if it's not business space. We know that 95% of us don't have a used permit for the house (I'm one of those). Therefore, there was no need to write in the law something that we know was meant to formulate, perhaps in another way. You don't have to write what we know will never be implemented. It devalues every law. In the 1970s, we had the Law forbidding the slaughter of small cattle, which is still in force today, but never lived. Therefore, the introduction of such provisions should not devalue the law. He needs to be cleaned of these things and found more appropriate provisions. I don't think the past laws have been that bad, they could have led to a better situation, but I think surveillance and practical work on the ground is the right thing to do, and I think this government and the local self-government have a big job to do. I think you'll have time, because now the citizens are pretty poor for this time, so a small number of them are going to go into some more massive construction. You have time to prepare the authorities of the job administration to strengthen the inspection services, so that this law will in any way, but eventually live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28867	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28868	Dear Mrs Comic, honourable MPs, I want, like my colleagues from local self-government, to look back on what is the most important topic for many local self-governments, and that is certainly legalisation of the facilities. I believe that we are introducing progress in this area, that it is not only privileged, which is that some important objects, which are squeamish, cause attention, may be the paradigm of some pride or extraprofit, remain unpunished, i.e.. stayed in their seats, and even because of them, a lot has been changed. By the way, to remind everyone present here, I think that a very incorrect performance was a colleague of Bogdanovic from the Belgrade City Government before noon, when he attacked and planted cowardly eggs on DSS MPs, and the DSS in general, saying that the legalisation of the Pink TV building had made people from my party. Let's remind ourselves of some facts, since I wasn't lazy, so I asked my colleagues from the DSS City Committee here from Belgrade. Namely, I am obliged to point out on behalf of all DSS MPs, namely to remind myself of facts better than all others know DSS MPs, which is that, a year and a half ago, President of the Belgrade Assembly of the City of Belgrade Nenad Bogdanovic launched the legalisation process of the illegally built TV Pink building by adapting the urban plan to a built-up facility. Namely, Zeljko Mitrovic, owner of TV Pinka, at the time of the rule of the SPS and JUL, bought a salary on which he had built an object for the purposes of his television without any permission and beyond the urban plan. Through what's-his-name. The verification of the urban plan, i.e. by prescribing technical conditions for construction, Nenad Bogdanovic is trying to achieve a change of urban conditions on the beach on which the TV Pink building is located. Therefore, urban conditions are adapted to Mitrovica's facility, instead of vice versa, to determine first what and then where to build it, and then to build it. If Bogdanovic's plan succeeds, we would get a new regulation plan for the space continent of Dedina right there. So far, the plan foresees that we remind ourselves of a residential facility. However, the new regulation plan, to legalise the existing facility, provides for a business facility, of course. By the way, it should also be recalled that this building is not that galbarite as it is beautiful but is...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28869	National MP, bring in the information you provide directly to the draft law which is on the agenda or inform us that you are the president, deputy president or authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group and that you are using the right to reply, one of those two in the subsequent presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28870	Dear Mrs. Komic, you know what this is about - it is that your predecessor did not interrupt Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic at any moment when he was here untrue. Please, I'm going to finish one sentence, I'm going to say what they represent, what all the DSS MPs are thinking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28871	Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28872	Here, I'll be back on the subject. If we allow regulation plans to change, in order for the gauges or the purposes of some objects to change, this brings us to legalization, I think we're going in the wrong direction. Those who will enforce even this new law, I think they're taking us in the wrong direction. It seems very dangerous for me to adapt all our behavior and work within the existing, because I think there are such objects that should be torn down, the DSS stands for it, and that is why no leader from local self-government, like so far, will ever participate in such activities; and above all, I think, and this is a message to this Parliament, that it is necessary to pass a law on the financing of political parties, which is, of course, the beginning of the fight against all types of corruption, and even when it comes to the urban mafia and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28873	The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic (the SRS group has four minutes).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28874	Well, let me use four minutes to give a general assessment of this bill. It can be said that this is a failed attempt to merge areas and matter that have been regulated by three or four or maybe more laws so far. The failed attempt for one simple reason why all those inaccuracies, inaccuracies and nonsense of the existing four laws does not solve this omnibus law, but introduces a new category, which are licensed legal persons, who will all these inter-groups between individual stages, from planning to using permission, to filling out. So, just licensed legal entities. In that sense, the promoter realized he was forming an engineering chamber. And of course, he passed on public authority to that engineering chamber, and according to this bill, it is one ordinary association of citizens. The ordinary association of citizens, not according to the Constitution, nor to this, nor to those you bring, nor to any existing law, nor to the following laws that you make, will be able to exercise public authority. The National Assembly is not authorized by law to pass it on to one association of citizens. If you have used something in parallel that is present at the bar, then I must tell you that you have made a mistake, because the bar is only a lawyer's registration, but they don't give permission to work, even if it's called a license. That's one thing. The second thing that certainly deserves attention, is that the legislator tried to regulate the matter for which, first of all, he wasn't in charge, the second one wasn't competent and the third one, he did it the wrong way. It is something about the city building land regime, whether you call it city building land or land in the city area or use new terms. You're introducing something new, and as far as it's missed is best shown by article 81 of your bill, where you are now predicting the lease and conclusion of a lease contract with someone, and as you have stated in order to "build objects for the purpose of carrying out tasks from the authority of the state authorities". Please, the state itself concludes the lease agreement. In the city building land regime, you introduce two or three retail categories. Of course, there is a solution. The existing solution in the law is not good, what you're offering is even worse. You were obliged to set the necessary criteria and limits in the provisions on the urban building land regime to move those fees, as the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for economic policy. You can't leave all this to local self-government. As bad as this law is, he won't even be able to check with the Constitutional Court, and not even the sublegal acts that will be passed under this law. Just one more thing, since I am running out of time, urban, mountaineering and construction standards are not just a technical question, and this law is inapplicable unless the minister, the institute or this phantom chamber brings in at least 40 sublegal acts for which, by no law or constitution, and associations could not be authorized because they directly concern the fundamental rights of man.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28875	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28876	Dear Members of the Parliament, my colleagues have said a lot about the inadequacy of putting this law on the agenda. I will point to only a few members who will in practice be difficult or very difficult to implement. When it comes to Article 30, the document is going to a public debate and must be published in the daily and local paper. The fact is that many places do not have that local voice, and many interested citizens, who have this problem, do not read public texts. Therefore, they are unable to see the plan document and comment on it. You know there's always a lot of objections when it comes to a plan document, which is respected by the local office of urbanism, but if citizens don't see it and go through the process, then it's already too late. Mr. Minister, I am particularly interested in Article 117, he regulates what needs to be done by a responsible contractor. I live in an environment rich in wild construction, and you are certainly aware that hundreds of objects in Serbia without a building permit and illegally built. It is said that the responsible contractor, when it comes to the creation of a private facility for himself or for the family, must have a professional exam, a senior or a mid-term. Minister, I'll tell you that there are people who don't even have four classes of school, but they're top masters when it comes to building an internal building, building. What the people say is, "What eyes see, those hands create." How will he provide a responsible contractor? He works with his means. Simply, will he get into a situation where he pays the fine because he knows he's working and can't hire another worker? Members of 158 and 160 say that one who does not report his illegally built facility within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, the municipal authority will decide on the destruction of the facility. We also know that these people already destroyed their facility once, so the privates sold them a piece of land and they built that facility. Now they need to be re-determined. Even 90% of these people won't know that this law was passed if it isn't promoted in public to the extent that every man knows it's being passed. Unfortunately, there are no TV broadcasts today, and many would be interested in seeing this law, many today would be familiar with their obligation to report their object within a certain time, because if he does not read it, and I guarantee you that around me half of them do not read the newspaper at all, and if he does not report that object, he will come into a situation to get a solution to the demolition. What my colleague Dragan Jovanovic said, if a man has this building permit and has no use of it, and I guarantee you that 90% of the buildings that have paid for the location do not have that useful permission, and if he does not obtain it within three months of the day he received the notice, if he has applied for the use of the permit, he will pay a hundred times the amount of compensation for the use of the building land, how much municipal or city authority prescribes for the buildings built on land that has building-urbanist conditions. So if he doesn't get it and if he doesn't have those funds, he's going to be in a position to succumb to a penalty for the destruction of the facility or to stop using it. What's a man going to do with his family? Does he have to get her out of the building if he doesn't have a license? I think these sanctions are rigorous, especially when many will not know about many of the provisions of this law. I think these are some practical examples, Mr. Minister, which will certainly be happening in the field. I am absolutely in favour of finding a reasonable measure when it comes to solving the problem of wild construction, because all cities and their border areas are occupied by wild construction. Indeed, a way must be found, but acceptable for all citizens who have done so all the facilities, to bring it to the final purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28877	The People's Messenger Radmilo Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28878	Honorable MPs, respected ministers, I think this law has one flaw, because Serbian urban associations, Serbian architects disagree with this law and have given hundreds of amendments. That wouldn't be a problem if we hadn't had to work with these urbanists and these architects. I ask you what this co-operation of local self-government with the urbanists who are against this law will be like? I don't think they're going to have a good will to do what we ask them to do best. The deadlines to make spatial, general and detailed plans are very short. I don't think the dissatisfaction of urbanists is going to solve this. We passed another law last year, this ministry proposed it, it's the Preference and Catastres Act. It's been a year, and 30% of it's supposed to be done by now, because we said three years from now it's done. We don't have a report as long as it's arrived. I don't think 30% is done. In the end, I think it's more important than the law being passed is his respect. I have to say here that my community, whose president I am, has one problem with the ministry. Last year, the ministry issued urban conditions for a gas station in the city of Arangelovac, but is not responsible for the document, for issuing urban conditions. With that paper, that the ministry gave him urban conditions, he built a pump; municipal inspections and my chief of property-law said that we had no jurisdiction over the inspection, and now we came here that the ministry couldn't give urban conditions, the pump was built and what we're going to do now, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28879	The word is by MP Dragisa Djokovic and is the latest registered speaker according to statements for the word in the principle debate on the draft law on planning and construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, by respecting Mr. Minister as a professor, I thought that he would propose a law that would take us a little longer, that he would not look up to the laws that we passed in this assembly that were inadmissible or that they lasted so short. They were essentially unconstitutional and illegal, in proportion to world regulations and world standards. Unfortunately, we still have an example of one of these laws today, but since time is short, and much is not good in this law, it can't be corrected by amendments, so the DSS didn't even tolerate them. Since there's little time, I'll say some of it. For example, the disputed categories are in construction land, members of the laws 69, 70 and 71, so let's say there that the municipality determines the general interest; how it determines it, when it determines it, etc. De facto by passing such a law and ending the old law is essentially delayed by the application of this law for two years, because the law cannot be applied, the existing law does not apply, and there is no new determination, i.e. land-difference. Article 70 states that it is possible for the owner or user of an existing facility to exclude land from property; and as it is possible as long as there is an object and is used on it, and it is possible to take it away. Then, for example, it is unnecessarily written that public building land cannot be alienated; and what if the urban plan changes and thus changes the character of the land. It means that this part of the member is unnecessarily written, because there may be a change in the urban plan and thus a change in the character of the land. On the other hand, the character of public building land represents something that does not follow democratic authorities, because we are going towards private, return, restitution, to correct the injustices that many have done, because the land is denationalized, etc. But we have an example where, and now, our courts don't want to return land, even though there's this particular point, because it's taken such an attitude that the denationalized land doesn't return anyway. Then, members 81 and 82 are told that the municipality can literally take the land from the users and place it on the other person's lease, but it does not regulate the procedure and the way it is conducted. There is a great breadth of unpreciseness, they are possible; unfortunately, we are always afraid of the possibility of these abuses where everything is not precisely defined. Then, what's next and what I wanted to draw your attention to, it's the Space Planning Agency. By who knows which time an agency is formed in Serbia, we have more agencies than ministries. The agency's secondary duties are secondary, but what is special and what is said to be the Agency's means of work can be, among other things, donations, contributions, sponsorship of domestic and foreign legal and natural persons. When we say - donations and sponsorship, please, I don't know who he is who he's giving free, who's going to give to the spatial planning agency something, and in return he won't ask for any favors. If someone was watching B92 yesterday, there is an example, unfortunately, of a testimony in The Hague, an anonymous witness, where some of the donors were Giovanni Di Stefano, so the Karic brothers, etc. Could such donors appear here, could the donor be Opačić, could it be Pink and Zeljko Mitrovic, could it be the Nume Donor, and then the agency will plan some asphaltation there, so that "Difens Road" will pave the way, etc. Please, it's very bad to allow the state agency to receive donations from legal entities, from natural, domestic and foreign persons, it's not good at all. Then I'd stick to the question of the involvement of professions and licenses. Unfortunately, it is not good not to respect the opinion of the profession; simply, the democratic government, as it seems, must respect the opinion of the profession, or of those people who know. Let's just say that we MPs aren't all experts, but that's why there's this association of architects, the association of urbanists, so it's not just a problem that some of the rest of the old regime is president of the Architects Association, so we have to install part of our regime for the president of architects or urbanists, so that he'll give us support, etc. I don't think that's good, and that practice wasn't right at all in the old regime, because if it's a profession, it has to work professionally. It doesn't matter if that man was or isn't in some party right now, etc. For example, here you have an anti-constitutional provision on the termination of the space plan; then, we have an example, the opposite of the world, where urban and spatial planning was separated; and these objections from the profession came. Then you have an objection to the profession to go in the direction of centralization, where it is said that in the same institutions are all who give themselves jobs, control themselves, etc. In real life, there are no licenses, they're something new, and it's yet to come back to life. It is disputed that now licenses are granted by an engineering chamber which can, in essence, formally and legally be treated as an association of citizens and now which is a sanction for someone who does not respect norms, and that can only be a withdrawal of licenses. You now have one, conditionally said, poorer, weaker performer, and the investor is a little stronger and richer, he may be "stimulated" to break some norms, some rules, and his only punishment may be to take away the license in the engineering chamber and ask if he will take it away, but perhaps that slightly richer investor will stimulate it, so the procedure will be launched, etc. I don't think it's accurate and it's not good. What do I mean? It was intended to provide for violations not only of the license, but also sanctions of material-financial nature, conditionally said, planners, those who have a license or performer, not only of the minority court honor and other things, possible withdrawal of licences, etc., especially what is new and yet to live. Milka, please hold on, I know you're impatient, but what you need here at the pay phone is gone. (Milka Marinkovic keeps throwing out of place, but she doesn't understand. ) The question of legalization is misconceived...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28881	People's messenger, without doubting the truthfulness of your statement at the pay phone, I ask you not to throw it to the MPs of the people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28882	Here it is unclear in matters of legalisation of the possibility and procedure of subsequent authorisation for construction for partially built or already built buildings. The procedure and procedure are unclear, and members 158 and 159 are asked to produce one piece of evidence they do not know how and from whom they can obtain. This is evidence of the right of ownership, i.e. the lease on building land, or the right to use. I don't think this procedure is good enough, it's not defined enough, and there's going to be a lot of abuse, and we have an example of the heavy enforceability of the Law on the Catastrian Operator, where for these, we've admitted, for a few years, not much has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28883	There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Before the initial search is concluded, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Marin Kresic, an authorised representative of the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28884	Just before I speak briefly to clear one thing up, since many times today the Association of Urbanists has been mentioned. I am an urbanist and what has been said today is not the Association of Urbanists, the local association of urbanists and local associations of architects from all over Serbia are involved in this law, we have given support and they will implement it. What this speaker referred to as the Association of Urbanists is one group of people who found themselves in the position of the Presidency and twenty people from public enterprises, they have protected their own monopoly so far and are not worthy of further importance for this speaker. So much for that. I want to draw attention right away to the fact that all the time around this law there was an assumption that it was one professional, engineering and professional law that should actually have the support of all parliamentary groups. That's why it seems to me that fellow SPS colleagues have reason to think a little bit more; I know they've been making some amendments, that the MP who prepared them was probably qualified in those amendments and there were good solutions. They said this is a good law, I agree with them, and I think there's a chance that these proposed amendments could still be considered and the possibility of being incorporated into sublaws. There is no other reason, except for your tactile surrender of amendments, which you are too late with them and I don't think that's enough reason to exclude yourself from the process of passing this law. On the other hand, it seems to me that the same support of this law comes from another opposition group that understands and carefully reads the law. I am obliged to say that as regards the mandate of Commissioner Lukic, he is likely to have the opportunity by means of a sublegal act to resolve the issue of the size of civil parcels, as stated by the law to be dealt with by sublaws, and that a decision has been practically taken for Goli, and it has entered into the programme of creating a spatial plan and a specific purpose area. About this second group, which in fact in two months has failed to even read the law and has a view of it from one global position, I don't think there's a need for a wrong interpretation of the law to conduct some concrete discussions. I would like as some sort of summation of this discussion today to present the two positions from which we spoke today. One is actually the position of centralised decision-making on matters of spatial order, directive planning and dogma, and the second is the position of democracy, principles and respect for the fact that development of settlements and areas of Serbia is actually a process that needs to last long. From this corner of centralized decision-making and commanding urbanism, what we inherited is the Spacious Plan of Serbia, from which all objections begin. Be careful, the Spacious Plan of Serbia, drawn a static picture of Serbia's ideal future, which has been nailed and in fact eliminates the need for further spatial planning. That's why he wasn't even in the city's spatial plan so far. It can't be done. It can't be said directively that the settlement will be medium or larger, or part of the land will be planned for the airport, and no one knows who will do it. That time of directive planning is over. That is why, as in all European countries, it replaces a strategy that is, in fact, the negotiation of all participants in some process of spatial development, which should happen in Serbia in the future. If on the one hand it's an order, on the other hand it's a deal. This brings about a new legal project. On this side of the directive, urbanism highlights the whole story of the previous conditions and the many previous orders, and on the other hand, the new law eliminates all this through a procedure that is necessary to achieve common solutions. If, in the earlier principle of work, all the directives went from top to bottom, so everything was at the level of Serbia's spatial plan, this law gives the locals full autonomy. That's why there's a spatial plan for the municipality. As a result, the municipalities themselves will decide on their spatial arrangement. If on the one hand there was a monopoly in this first principle, this law brings complete competition of quality and there is, in fact, the root of all the disagreements that we have ever had, means the protection of the monopolies that have existed so far. These are primarily public enterprises monopolies and those who have been able to make other benefits through this monopoly. The personal responsibility of the professional license actually introduces the stage of urban planning competition, and competition always brings quality. If, in this centralized system, bureaucracy was the one that decides to regulate, in this system, which this law makes, it's actually a profession. If the earlier model of urban planning was one foggy picture of various declarations of climate, relief, vague urban conditions, etc., a new generation of urban plans will make rules that will, when adopted, be the same for each and will not be later interpreted. That is why the rule is the fundamental principle of democracy, as it is achieved by long-term procedures, by agreeing in two processes of adoption at the assembly. When most are brought to the local community, everyone has to stick to it. If this first system has enabled corruption, this second one introduces responsibility and prevents corruption. So you know who's responsible for what, and it's exactly located in the entire process of urban, spatial planning, designing and building who's responsible. If these powerful permits were needed before, as an expression of mistrust with the builder, it will now be replaced by one approval. That is why, as before every investor in advance was guilty when he decided to build a wall and therefore had to pass all that maze of administration, by the spirit that represents the new law, every investor is welcome and then the total administration service in that good act is to enter into the investment and to make it a general satisfaction. If the former system was claustrophobic and ran away from co-operation with neighbours, what the agency is actually doing, and nothing decides when you read more carefully, it also brings integration to international co-operation. So if there was no AP before, there is no mistrust in the new law, no one is the enemy, so Serbia and the Autonomous province co-operate and therefore there is a unit of agencies and work together plans. That would end this brief exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28885	Are any of the other representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? You used both calls. If no one else is answering for a word, I'll conclude the search in principle. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A representative of the government, the minister, can report to any amendment, according to the same member of the Rules of Procedure, as well as the MPs. Time is available for a maximum of five minutes and at the end of the debate in details unlimited time. National MP Velimir Simonovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. A representative of the Government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28886	Mrs. Komic, I would suggest something, which would not be contrary to the Rules of Procedure, if I didn't go out here twenty times, I didn't need it, but to give a dutiful review of my amendments, to point out some important things and not to go into details. That doesn't stop the authorized from answering the word. It would take me at most 15 minutes, instead of wasting 100 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28887	With a proposal from all presidents and authorised representatives of parliamentary groups to strike a violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, I allow MP Velimir Simonovic to extend the time for debate a few times.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28888	Thank you very much. I wrote those amendments, and some of them I gave up, you can see that. There were suggestions that I might give up on these other amendments; I couldn't do it for some moral reasons, because they helped me write amendments to people I really appreciate; among them were urbanists, builders, lawyers, and not only have academic titles, but they worked practically. It would be very unfair for me to suddenly give up all the amendments, so why the whole job and I'll lose their trust in help on another occasion. So as far as Article 2 is concerned, I suggest that some location, construction area and so on be defined more precisely. I wouldn't stick around for that. Simple, shorter and more precise definitions in Article 2. Amendment 2 has been withdrawn. Amendment 3. I propose adding to Article 17, paragraph 2, "as well as the need to plan the number of inhabitants in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in general or in certain regions. "What's this about? When we discussed it on the resolution board, it was said it was a demographic thing and so on. I don't think anything can be planned, the city, the settlement, etc., without taking care of the number of residents who will live there. Of course you can't say, that's where 25,000 people will live, but the orientation number would have to be known, in order to ensure a normal life in that city -- municipal structures, water, sewerage, apartments, work, schools, etc. for a certain number of inhabitants. I think it should be added, and nothing would mind adopting it. I have Amendment 4; in Article 30, I add a new position. It reads this: "If complaints are adopted on the general urban plan after 30 days, public insight will be repeated with changes adopted and it will last 15 days. "I would not particularly explain this; briefly: I think it is necessary, for the Constitutional Court can annul the general plan if it is in place and if someone complains that there has been no public insight into the changes in the general plan. Amendment 5 has been withdrawn. Amendment 6 requires that Article 33 point 4 be changed and beautifully written - instead of "reshuffle and reconstruction of historical and ambienced continents" - "protection of historical, as well as spatial-ambital continents", because protection is a broader concept. This provides and implies conservation, restoration, revitalisation, etc. Amendment 7 to Article 34 has been withdrawn. I proposed that Amendment 8 add Article 5 to Article 36, so that solutions to the existing and the adoption of a new general plan are carried out every ten years or more often, depending on the need. The explanation is very short; I think it is necessary. Amendment 9 to Article 48 I withdrew. In Amendment 11, I propose a small addition, which is that Article 54, paragraph 1, changes and reads: "The general urban plan brings together the assembly of the municipality, that is, the city, with the Commission's opinion added". Also, to add Article 2 which reads: "The regulatory urban plans bring the municipality's assembly to a solution". The general plan should be made that way. When it comes to regulatory plans, it will be settled by regular courts, if necessary, so I believe that this change would not be bad. I withdraw Amendment 12 to Article 55. Amendment 13 refers to Article 56. It's a longer amendment. I'm adding a few new attitudes. This applies to the urban plan, to urban permits. I believe that the urban permit solves the basic things about the arrangement and the possibility of building any building in space, while the building permit and the building permit is a purely technical matter, related to the facility itself and its implementation in accordance with the regulations. I will read the last sentence of the amendment's explanation: "Cities and spaces as a whole are far more important than any investor's interest which needs to meet all necessary urban conditions for the sake of consistent inclusion in the already built space. "Adjustment 14 to Article 67. There's talk of what built the building land, etc. That's not what I'd like to hang out with. I want to make a difference between the built land - these are cities and settlements - and the unbuilt land, which is planned for purpose. You can't say instead of the city that it's a building plot, because it's something that's a building heirloom. By amendment to Article 69, I suggest that the position of two be deleted. It's a question of public land, an explanation is a little longer, and I'm not going to quote it. Amendment 16. to Article 70. In the first position, the words "at the time of detention of the purpose after the rightfulness of the solution to the general interest" are added, and the points 4 and 7 are deleted. There is a need to know, if on such land there is an object that is alienated from state property, it is normal for the new owner to acquire property on land that is in the service of the facility. Somewhere in this or another member, it is said that land in state property cannot be alienated. I don't think that's a good solution. Because in order for a foreign investor to come to build something on some land that is state and cannot be sold. I don't think he's gonna invest that money. It should be prescribed that he can buy land on which to build a hotel or some other large facility, a residential building, etc. We have a strange situation that someone built a house on a salary 70 years ago, so the land on which his house became a construction, city or city property, and now he has a house, and the place isn't his. It's just not normal. In the traffic of such a house, the buyer will tell you how to buy you a house when I can't buy a piece of land under the house. In Article 72, I suggest that Section 3 be deleted. It is said that the municipality can set up a company or another organisation to do these land construction work. It is not clear why it is stated in the law. Let the municipality make a company if they will, but it must not be privileged; I want everyone to be able to participate in auctions equally when it comes to building land, not that the municipal enterprise has the privilege of only receiving those words. There should be precise precision in the sublegislative acts in the way of auctioning in respect of land and control, as well as supervision of the spending of funds. Amendment 18, I suggest that article 77 be deleted. I believe that any land tax should be regulated in the Property Tax Act, because the owner should pay the tax only in relation to the value of the property. It is unacceptable that the owner of the property pays someone compensation for using his own land; only the property tax, and that is regulated by another law, not in this one. Amendment 19 to Article 78 I suggest that this member be deleted. Not getting into the details. In Article 79, I propose that Article 3 be changed and that something different be read: "The land of the position of the 1st member, which until the day of entry into force of this law, on the basis of the law or decision of the assembly of the municipality, or of the city designated as city building land in the state property, is not considered city building land". Still, attitude four to change. The question arises, this is an explanation, as long as citizens are to wait for the special law to return the seized building land, when this law is already passed, which is quite possible to settle the issue, as stated in Article 79(4), where part of the land is intended to be returned to the former owners. There is no reasonable reason for any other land, which is laid down by law as construction, not to be returned to the property of former owners. In Article 80, paragraph 2, I ask that it reads as follows: "The other building land of the municipalities can obtain, and the land obtained and purchased to arrange, rent, or use for the general needs of the citizens." This is about not coming against the Law on the Property of the Republic. That's what this amendment applies to. By amendment 22 of Article 83, I suggest that the word "use" be replaced by "own" and after the word "parcel" is deleted. I think that's an argument, that the right to use a relic of past times and not to recognise property over land should now be interrupted. By amendment 23 to Article 84, the word "use" is replaced by the word "ownership"; something similar to this one just now. Amendment 24 to Article 86. There's a couple of attitudes in there. This applies to investors who have not done their job in a year, two, three, etc. I'm proposing more severe measures towards them, and I've added a few more attitudes here. If someone hasn't done anything in three years, it's an unserious investor, and we're still giving big deadlines. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is simply to tighten the measures towards investors who are not, because they do not seriously approach their business. Finally, by amendment 25, I propose that Article 87 be deleted for reasons that individual entities should not be allowed to come into an unequal position in the same legal situation. Ladies and gentlemen, in less than 15 minutes, I gave a brief overview of my amendments. They are now leaving themselves to you for mercy and mercy, and the only thing I can do is appeal to those of you who are interested in this law, because certainly not all MPs are interested, to read carefully my reasons for the amendment and then decide whether you will vote yes or no.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28889	I thank the applicant for the amendment, MP Velimir Simonovic. Is anyone else applying for an amendment to member of the 2nd People's MP Velimir Simonovic? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bratoljub Janacković and Milorad Stanulov. A representative of the Government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Stanulov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28890	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the people's emissaries, this amendment proposed that the autonomous province's spatial plan be one of the planning documents that would otherwise be provided for in Article 16 of this Law. Coli Janackovic, a signator of this amendment along with me, explained in principle the liberals' views on the issue of the law. Respecting the fact that the amendments of other MPs who agree with the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina better regulate the issue of decentralisation in this area, we are withdrawing this amendment. Finally, I would like to thank Mr. Minister and his associates once more for allowing Serbian Liberal MPs to get to know the issue of this law much earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28891	I find that the amendment to Article 16 has been withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic, who explained the amendment. Is there any other application for a word? No, I don't. ) The committee responsible and the representative of the Government have not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The 30th amendment was also submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Is there an application for that amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 33, MP Velimir Simonovic, who explained this amendment, submitted the amendment. Is anyone applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 53 was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Is there an application for a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 54. A bill of law? No, I don't. ) National MP Velimir Simonovic withdrew the amendment to Article 55. It's a bill of law. I find that amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Velimir Simonovic submitted an amendment to Article 56. The amendment is justified by the applicant. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) Is there an application for a word based on an amendment submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 69? No, I don't. To Article 70? No, I don't. ) Is there an application for a word to Article 72? The word has been given by MP Miomir Ilic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Otherwise, the amendments I have read have not been accepted by a representative of the Government or by a committee in charge, and the Legislative Committee considers them legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28892	Since we were unable to present our opinions through the amendments and correct the text of the proposal, given what we have presented as SPS representatives, I have to join certain amendments that Professor Simonovic has made in a very correct and professional manner. I'm taking the opportunity to state my position on the other amendments too, so I don't go out, which Professor Simonovic gave. So, to Article 72, with an explanation that is very correct and professionally done, to Article 77 and to Article 78. We believe that the explanation given by the applicant of the amendment to all three members contains some of the remarks that we have had. So the bottom line is it's not that we're against this law, it's that some of the things that are given are not adequate. We have remarks about the arrangements of the city building land, about the consent and the permits to be obtained, on the deadline and shortness of that time, on the penalties that go there and related to this and the inability to yet make this law realistic and applicable in the peach. In practice, it will certainly not be applicable, and the reasons we have given: the lack of respect for the fundamental constitutional principle that the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia has been adopted, that it is a basic plan document and until we change the Constitution we cannot go with the development strategy. It's all about lying and embarrassing, that those elements that were entered here can't let us know that we need this law to back up. It wasn't any tactics, as the Proposer's representative put it here. That's one correctness. We didn't have the opportunity to correct those proposals. We believe that this law should be withdrawn, that it will go into debate as appropriate outside the state of emergency and that it can be corrected for that reason. The amendments of Professor Simonovic to these members that I have given here are being joined as one of the contributions, to see that we are not the Socialist Party to which you throw, all sorts of things, to blame our president for everything, but we are very correct, constructive and flexible, so that we can show the citizens of Serbia that we are not to throw and that we deserve attention. For this reason, the merits of the citizens of Serbia, who cannot listen to this and follow it, the Socialist Party of Serbia will not support this law and we believe that so will the Socialist Party MPs vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28893	Anyone else answer for an amendment to Article 72? The word has a folk letter from Goradana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately we haven't had the opportunity to make amendments to this law. I believe we would make our contribution to making this law even better. I listened carefully to Mr. Simonovic's statement. In many ways, I could agree with him, perhaps not entirely, but mostly he noticed the weak points of this law. In my principle debate, I mentioned in Article 72, and I find it inappropriate to further engage people outside the hurricane who are already working on certain jobs, because it requires additional costs, and we keep forgetting that these are budget funds, that they are the funds of our citizens, that we are all paying for it and that we should go towards simplifying things. In other words, we've made savings, now we don't have to collect 32 documents, there's a tax to be paid everywhere when something's asked. In addition to the request, it must be paid in tax stamps or in any cash. We already have a law on administrative fees probably tomorrow in the debate, so we're going to talk about it, but in an indirect way we take money from citizens, because we're almost making believe. I'm really surprised Mr. Ivkovic didn't defend his spatial plan today, which has been celebrating for years. He must have a flaw, and I must remember a situation when I was in the city hall of Dimitrovgrad. The president of the municipality told me that according to the Space Plan by 2004, it was expected that the number of inhabitants would fall by not knowing what percentage, but it was very much compared to the total population, so I was really surprised that someone could create a spatial plan and go towards predicting that demographic part, which is neither contained here nor thought about it at all, but at least this one thought, even negatively, that a fall in population could be planned, without doing anything in the context of that spatial plan to create infrastructure to avoid it. So, in advance, it was going towards these negative consequences. You haven't even thought about democracy here, and I don't think the municipalities are really going to be in a position to do this job the way you expect them to. That job will be taken over again and monopolized. I'm saying all that, and with the extra spending you said it wasn't necessary to provide additional funds, but I'm convinced that's not the case, and we'll have, if not in this year's rebalance, given that it's a year and a half time to get these jobs done, the next year we'll see when we get a budget on how much taxpayers will cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28895	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) This amendment was not accepted by a representative of the Government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The previous amendments were not accepted by a representative of the Government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, and the Legislative Committee considered them legally possible. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. The Prime Minister accepted this amendment at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, but we do not have the opinion of the Legislative Committee, so it cannot become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Professor Dragoslav Šumarac want the final word? He has the word of Prof. Dr. Dragoslav Šumarac, Minister of Urbanism and Building.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28896	Your Honor, Madam President, just five minutes to answer some of the questions asked. There was a question here - should this area be regulated by one law? We're sure our approach is correct. It also proves the law of 1931, when everything was arranged in one place. The state had consequences for Serbia, which in its history was the most orderly in the period. When some parts of the law change, the most important thing is to preserve the whole, and that will be possible if the whole area is arranged in one place. There were remarks that the law was made in a hurry. On the contrary, we've been working the law for almost two years and there's no place and city we haven't visited. The representatives of the Serbian Urbanist Association Presidency were also with us everywhere, so we sought to install all objections into this law. DOS MPs' clubs, Liberal Serbia, the Soviet Union, organised a presentation. We offered a presentation to everyone, and to the SRS, we also organized with the DSS, so that we installed all the proposed solutions that were fixing and preserving this reform concept of the law. It was one of the remarks - whether or not the accompanying documents were made. That's a very good question. This law provides for 18 regulations and all rules are laid down. A proposal for the statutes of the Serbian Chamber of Engineering was also made and will normally be adopted at the Engineering Chamber assembly, so independent of the ministry. There were questions about denationalization -- did we read that memo that you all got from the Property Protection League? They were the first to support these solutions, which are only the first step towards what needs to be passed by a law on denationalisation. We shouldn't have entered the area of denationalization because it's not the subject of our law. We just wanted to allow cities to build and develop, right on the part where construction land was not built, to put into circulation those parcels that were nationalized and that the right to use earlier owners could be put into circulation. In addition, the land declared by the municipality's decisions as city building land became state-owned, and under the old law could be returned to earlier owners, but were short-term. We had, when the municipality didn't do it, demands in the ministry, and Novi Sad was one of the cities, to implement that decision. Now it's going to be an opportunity. And we took that from the old law. There have been objections to Article 89, to licences, which will be granted by the Republic, or the Ministry. This applies only to objects of importance for the Republic. If a dam is done, that licence will again be a collection of individual personal licenses. In no case will the Government, or the Ministry, interfere with the licensing. It'll be a matter of profession. We have truly world-renowned experts in the field of urbanism, architecture, construction of buildings, designers, and I'm sure they won't make any mistakes, and then, if it's a dam, we'll give a license to such a company that has primarily responsible builders, engineers, electricians, all those who participate in the construction of the dam. There have been objections that there is a lot of interference between countries through this committee of plans, and the Committee on Plans and under the current law exists. We just put three members to propose a ministry, and a member with a license. So that's how we want the profession to be present in these commissions. The remark was that legalization would not be possible and equal for everyone, that someone would be favored. It's exactly the opposite. In our law, everyone has the right to report their facilities and then the profession, or urbanists, through urban plans, or where there are no urban plans, through building rules, will determine what can be legalized and what cannot. It was an observation that we passed the Immobility Cataster Act and that we didn't report it. It is this law that shows that this government is enforcing all the laws proposed by the congregation, which the congregation majority is now implementing. Immobility cadasar with 9% coverage of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as the previous government has done in 10 years, we have now raised to 25%. This year we plan to make it 30% by the end of the year. The amendment also made remarks that the number of amendments speaks of the law not being good. On the contrary, 42 amendments were accepted. If it's taken into account that there are four laws, then it's 10 amendments under the law and we don't think it's a large number of amendments. They have indeed stayed on the reform course and improved these solutions, and this specifically refers to amendments given by the Liberals, then by Mrs Nada Kolundzija, Mrs Leila Ruzdic. Unfortunately, Professor Simonovic had come early, when we could agree together, it is certain that his solutions would have been accepted. I'd like to say in the end that there's no need to answer to a stranger who's had the chance to show in Zemun how one city and municipality should be arranged, that's what you can see. I just want to deny that there's ever been a permit issued from a palace city in Schiller. The palace in Schiller was an illegal facility, without any permission, and it is true that the current government in Zemun, along with the city and with us, made that decision, the current municipal government signed a decision to destroy the facility. It's also amazing and I didn't expect the DSS to be against this law, which should really be professional. I apologize if my departure here had political connotations, but the fact is that they obviously always choose for advisors some who are from those past days. That is what happened now, as Mr Kresic said, was elected by advisers from the presidency of the Association of Urbanities of Serbia, who were also representatives in the past regime. We've seen them pick their own advisors for safety as well. Just two more sentences. I think the goals we set, which is to make it easier to get the necessary construction papers, to attract foreign investors as much as possible, to increase the number of construction sites in our Republic, will be achieved by this law. The best evidence for that is the beating of the representatives who supported this law, primarily the representatives of the government. These are Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic, Mr. Milentijevic, Mr. Markovic. I am sure that when the representatives of the authorities support these solutions, this law will be applicable. (Goldana Pop-Lazic, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-17-0.u28897	You have no right, no Radical Party mentioned. I'm sorry you guys recognized each other. You absolutely didn't mention it. I'm not giving you a replica. We're done. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Republic of the Administrative Taxes (Common principled search with 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda) Consensual decision of the National Assembly to bring together the debate on draft laws proposed by MP Siniša Mitrovica, and before opening a common principle search, I remind you that the total time for the debate is five hours, and I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to submit a list with the registered MPs who want to talk about this item of the agenda. I am opening a joint principle search on: - Proposal for a Law on Republic Administrative Taxes; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Corporate Tax Act; - Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Excises; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on Financial transactions. So we've opened a joint principle search on the third item of the agenda. The session of the National Assembly Legislative Committee will be held at 9.30 p.m. on Friday. On the basis of article 81, I'm setting tomorrow as a working day. I'll see you tomorrow after 10.00. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Radoslav Veselinović, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jelena Milenković-Orlić, Velimir Simonović, Stanko Kovačević, Miomir Tadić, Išpanovic Istvan, Torde Laslo, Kasa Jožef, Juhas Attil, Kermeci Karolj, Zivica Predojev, Željko Tomić, Dragan Jočić, Živorad Raković, Gzden Jovanovic, Branislav Grubački, Branimir Trajković, Vuko Antonijević, Milos Nešović and Zlata Djerić; (before noon) Predrag Stojanović. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE REPUBLIC Administrative Taxes (joint principled search with amendments to the company tax, excise duties and tax on financial transactions) We continue a joint principle search on the proposal for a law on the Republic's administrative fees, the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, the draft Act amending the Act on Excises and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Financial transactions. Since the proposing representative is not present, I ask if the MPs want the word? Before that, do the officials of the committees want a word? The Finance Committee or the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ) Representatives of parliamentary groups do they apply for a word? Yeah. ) Please, the word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
