ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I invite you to insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for work and a quorum for decision making, since 193 MPs are present in the room. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, the Vice-President, the Ministers and the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since we have the quorum to decide, we are moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You've been delivered the records... According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33332	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn the president of the National Assembly of Article 221. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It reads: "The MP has the right to ask for information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. "Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you all that on Tuesday we had an scheduled session starting at 10.00 hours and that this session, here, we begin with 49 hours late. The president of the National Assembly did not find fit today at the beginning of this session to give any explanation to the MPs why we are so late. What happened on Tuesday is another reason for a higher confirmation that we were right when we asked for the resolution of the National Assembly president, because this is such a humiliation for parliamentaryism in Serbia and for all MPs, no matter what political option and what parliamentary club they belong to. We Serbian radicals are the founders of Serbian parliamentaryism, we are obliged to safeguard and promote parliamentaryism and therefore I really think that I share the opinion of all the MPs who cannot feel otherwise, but are humiliated and offended by this kind of behaviour of the president of the Assembly. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we were the hostages of the President of the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Tuesday. We've been waiting here for nine hours to start work. The session was not scheduled by us, the session was scheduled by the President of the Assembly, we heard, it was calculated about it, we waited for Svilanovic, Zivkovic, return from Vienna, agreements, blackmail, trade. All of this is possible in political life, but someone had to deign this parliament and come down and say - gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the session is being postponed for 15 hours, 17 hours, 24 hours at midnight, because we were ready and to spend the night in the National Assembly, and to resolve the situation and wait, after all, for this political agreement, which I think is quite fine with political life. Mrs. Comic came down to Parliament at ten minutes to 19 o'clock to tell us and to tell us the truth, I don't know if the TV cameras recorded it and whether it went to the air that the session was supposed to have been postponed during the day. It's not true, and I have to remind you and the public that she's given a harsh lie at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33333	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33334	I was quoting...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33335	You quoted 42 seconds, I followed, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33336	Well, well, Mrs. Micic, I thank you, too, but since we've had the patience to wait nine hours on Tuesday, you can show us some tolerance today, give us some time too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33337	I owe you an explanation, and I apologize for waiting so long. The session did not begin on Tuesday, October 14, because consultations were held and important political decisions were made; therefore, there was no intention of humiliating MPs, and on the other hand, gentlemen, the president of the Serbian Radicals parliamentary group, and I am waiting for you to take part in the voting quorum, which is the duty of Members of Parliament under Rule 217, two and a half years ahead of you, and so can you one day. Well, I'm sorry, but you can show a little patience, too. Here's a word from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33338	In the name of the SPS parliamentary group, I went out to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure - Article 80, paragraph 3, and it explicitly states: "The President of the National Assembly may postpone the hour, that is, the day of the meeting of the National Assembly, if a number of amendments are submitted to the proposed agenda of the session, which the Government and the committees in charge cannot discuss before the session begins, which shall be notified in good time by the MPs. "This provision of the Rules of Procedure has definitely been violated, we were in a position to sit here for nine hours on Tuesday, and the President of Parliament did not find it appropriate to inform us of the reason and why the session of the Assembly does not begin. We have heard, and we have seen, that there has been a political trade, a settlement that may be a DOS matter, but it is not the issue of this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. DOS can work before and after the Assembly starts, when the Assembly does not do what it wants, but is obliged to respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After that, those nine and a few hours of waiting, we got a notice from Mrs. Komic, not to even get into whether it was supposed to be like that. Anyway, we were waiting for a start that wasn't there. However, during the evening, a press release was sent from the cabinets of the National Assembly President, reading "News" -- "The President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has postponed, due to political consultations with the parliamentary groups and the Serbian government... ". Well, there was no consultation with parliamentary groups, because there were more heads of parliament, opposition parliamentary groups, none of whom were invited to discuss anything important for parliament. There were talks between two or three parliamentary groups within the DOS. I am referring to this because this is also how one manipulation is done with the Assembly and MPs, because it is obviously more important for the president of the National Assembly to know what will be in public and how the public will convey it than what is happening to us. The president of the National Assembly could, if she wanted to inform the MPs of the National Assembly what was the reason that the session was not held, and not in this way, by one manipulation, that she was trying to justify what was going on on Tuesday and her absence here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33339	The same explanation I gave to the SRS parliamentary group applies to the SPS parliamentary group, since we do not have time to repeat ourselves and convince ourselves. It is the SPS's duty to participate in the decision-making quorum. Gentlemen, you haven't done this in years, and one day you've waited. Please accept my apology. National MP Borislav Pelevic, deputy president of the SSJ parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33340	Dear citizens of Serbia, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, above all, Madam Chairman, just to warn you that I am not the deputy head of the parliamentary group. The deputy head of the SSJ parliamentary group is Mr. Petar Petrovic. I am an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33341	Then you can participate in the debate on the agenda points, not the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33342	I'm an authorised representative and I'm entitled to...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33343	Yes, you have the right to participate in the debate on agenda points, and according to the Rules of Procedure, only the president of the parliamentary group. I'd like the president of the Soviet Parliament Group to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33344	Madam Chairman, I fully replace the president of the parliamentary group by the authority you received on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33345	I guess we learned something in these two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33346	Madam Chairman, I see you've learned little, as soon as you don't know who the president is or who the vice president is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33347	Mr. Pelevic, please have your president come.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33348	He'll come, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33349	The president of the DSS parliamentary group, Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33350	Dear citizens, since it makes no sense to treat this assembly somewhat as a assembly, at least those who did not treat it on Tuesday, the DSS parliamentary group, in accordance with Article 86, submitted a proposal to extend the agenda of this three-point session. The first was to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's order, which referred to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the National Assembly, not the Administrative Board, is in charge of the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision to return to office. So, not the Administrative Board, as you sent me in a memo, when you didn't want to put it before the assembly to declare the proposal for the completion of the agenda - to honour the Constitutional Court's decision and to return the mandates. It's the first addition to the agenda. The other two additions to the agenda were to put aside the decision to elect the governors of the National Bank of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia Council. We also find it irrefutable that the choice of governors and Council of the National Bank of Serbia has been carried out against the Rules of Procedure and against the Law on the Election of the Governors of the NBS, and that the procedure here needs to be repeated. You refused to put these two proposals on the agenda and thus injured the Rules of Procedure, since the Assembly must declare these matters. That's how you hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking for it to be determined here. By not implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, you think that you can make this majority, which you do not have in the Assembly, in fact a minority, so make it even smaller and therefore do not implement that decision. I insist that you put before the MPs a proposal to declare the implementation of the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision and to put aside the decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, so that we can join the election of a new governor, in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33351	The proposals you have listed, which you have requested to extend the agenda, have been rejected. I rejected them based on the authority of Article 79. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "The draft agenda of the sitting can only include those proposals for acts prepared in accordance with the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure." A procedure for mandates has been laid down, and that is the job, the responsibility of the Administrative Board, the Republic Election Commission, and only then does the National Assembly decide on that. So it's absolutely impossible. The second thing, as far as the issues related to the decision to repeal the governor's election decision are concerned, is directly contrary to the National Bank Act, because it would be the same as if you had suggested that we put aside the appointment decision, for example, the President of the Constitutional Court. It is known who can submit a motion to resolve certain officials. If you are not satisfied, the answer will be given by the Administrative Board. (Dejan Mihajlov: By the Rules of Procedure.) There's no controversy. Are you pointing out any other injuries? I gave my answer. If you are not satisfied, the Management Board will give you an answer. The second injury awaits Mr Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group, and then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's no wonder that Parliament Speaker Mrs. Natasa Micic is so nervous, but please, at least this last day of your reign, that you respect the Rules of Procedure. I am advocating Article 96, which says that in connection with the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary group is represented by a president, or a representative of a parliamentary group; read Article 96. Please give your word to the president of the party, Borislav Pelevic and that at least today you respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33353	You've given authority to the agenda points, and you've not authorized him as your deputy, as an authorised representative. It says in your request - only according to the agenda points. Secondly, when you're present as president, I don't see why you'd...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33354	Article 96 does not say "in terms of agenda points". Please read article 96. I know him by heart. I don't look at the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33355	Of course, I know him, too, but in your authority you didn't give that authority. You lack the authority you've given your representative. You only let her discuss the agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33356	So you don't give a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33357	We haven't moved on to the agenda yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33358	Respected citizens of Serbia, since Mrs. President of the Assembly does not give a word to the authorised representative of the Soviet Union, I will say a few words: Mrs. Natasa Micic has been violating the Rules of Procedure for two years now, since the president of the Assembly; she violated him yesterday, violates him today, Article 81, and has always violated him, at every session. Ladies and gentlemen, this Serbia has paid dearly what Mrs. Natasa Micic has for the speaker, because she never started working on time at ten o'clock. On average, we were always two hours late in the afternoon, and the afternoon is the start of work at 15 hours, and we never started before 4:30. If someone doesn't have a working habit, we can't convince anyone here what the Rules of Procedure is. And if a working habit is acquired at the age of 40 and a few, it is the problem of that person, but no one else can distract Serbia and violate the Constitution, the Holy Scriptures, to violate the Rules of Procedure. You, Mrs. Natasa Micic, have repeatedly stuck your hand in my pocket because I mentioned the problem in Serbia. When I mentioned pensioners, you gave me a warning when I mentioned agricultural producers, when I mentioned Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, when I mentioned students and high scholarships, you gave me a warning when I mentioned workers in Serbia who did not work, a million people were out of work, you gave me a warning. You said they weren't topics, they weren't agenda points. When will this be a topic in Serbia, Mrs Natasa Micic? I think it's over, and I expect those with the good guys who used to lead you to escort you on that day that you're going to vote, to escort you to the music, after you've entered this hall with music. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33359	I'm usually a fan of music. Mr Pelevic, the beginning of the session depends on all MPs. Even on Tuesday 14, you had a quorum, a vice president who was present to guide it. You've announced it in the media. I have nothing else to say to you. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's not the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33360	You applied to article 79, which absolutely doesn't stand. If the proposal has not been made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you should return it to me to arrange it and re-deliver it. You refused to put in front of this congregation to discuss it. You have put above the Constitutional Court's decision of the Administrative Board and you here in the Assembly are stronger decisions of the Administrative Board than decisions of the Constitutional Court, which say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the one returning the mandates. You're saying the Management Board brought in another procedure. That's what you directly violated...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33361	I'm sorry to interrupt, which member did you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33362	Article 79, where you said they fit...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33363	We've been through this before.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33364	Yes, it is. You applied to that member and it's an absolute injury to that member. The second thing, if you are already calling for all the proposals to be in line with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, then I am surprised that you have not rejected Mr Pajtic's proposals to remove the agenda points of the agenda - a debate on trust for you as President of Parliament and trust in the Government. Since the Constitution guarantees the right of the People's MPs, the people's electors, 20 of them who are gathered to discuss the trust of the government. The constitution and rules exist, and democracy exists, not in order to allow for the majority of minorities to be tyranted, but in order to allow the rights of minorities they must enjoy as a minority and that they can whenever they want to discuss the government, the executive government. I didn't see such a suggestion that you refused as unconstitutional and I saw that he was preparing to put himself here for a plea. This is completely unconstitutional and I expect from you as president of the Assembly, who should protect the rights of MPs and, above all, the rights of the minority MPs, as well as the MPs of the majority, to have the right to ask questions about yours as well as the trust of the government. In this way you blatantly violated the basic democratic rules, which is that all MPs enjoy equal rights. By not rejecting such a proposal as unconstitutional, you gave yourself the right to work, and you took over the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, which is that you interpret, according to the first proposal I submitted in front of the DSS parliamentary group, which is in accordance with the law, which is not, although it is the sole jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, you accepted this proposal as constitutional and legal. On this side, you have again accepted the role of the Constitutional Court and accepted something that is absolutely inadmissible under the law, by the Constitution and by this Rules of Procedure. I expect to get an explanation for these remarks, too, on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33365	Of course, it's your right and my duty. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Now I have the right to explain. Do you just want to answer, to promote, and to violate the Rules of Procedure that the President of the Assembly who is obliged to give the argument cannot give an explanation? I saw you. You'll get your word. Mr. President of the DSS parliamentary group, a proposal tabled by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group, is fully in agreement with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. So, it's neither a breach of the Rules of Procedure nor a violation of the Constitution. That's the situation we had in 2002. On March 27th, the National Assembly also adopted a decision to remove the motion to vote non-refoulement to the government. So, she's totally in agreement with the Constitution. I'll read you article 93. The constitution that says: "A no confidence vote may (so it is not the name of the norm) be approached only after three days of the day of submission of the motion for distrust. "Absolutely not an imperial norm that the debate must be held. Thus, the National Assembly decides and has the right and authority to place such points or remove them from the agenda. National MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33366	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, fellow Members of Parliament, I shall advertise the violation of Article 32(2). Rules of Procedure. Namely, the president of the National Assembly has now told a lie, which is not worthy of the president of the National Assembly, with an explanation that the vice president could lead the session. He couldn't. The vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ljubisa Maravić, could not lead the National Assembly session, although he is here for nine hours all the time, for the reason that in the position of the 2nd member, he says that in the event of a temporary impediment the president replaces one of the vice-presidents he appoints, which he informs the vice-presidents and secretaries of the National Assembly. We have been informed that this vice president, who is authorized to hold meetings when the president of the National Assembly is prevented, is Mrs. Comic. Mrs. Comic has also been at consultations all day. Therefore, she could have come down and informed us about this or run a session of the Assembly, if it wasn't the president of the National Assembly, and not transferred to the vice president of Mr. Maravic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33367	Mr. President of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia, it is nice that you read Article 32 of Items 1 and 2, but it is not nice that you missed attitude 3, so I will read it: "If the president of the National Assembly does not determine which one of the vice presidents replaces it, it will be replaced by the oldest vice president in the event of temporary prevention. "The condition was met, neither was the president nor Vice President Gordana Comic present. Ladies and gentlemen, you could have opened the assembly session. We are now moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. If you are not satisfied, the answer will be given by the Administrative Board. (Zarko Obradovic, from the post: Recorder. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No discussion on the record. It could be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but there's no discussion of any objections to the record. You could have used the right a little while ago when you were, so you could point out one more, just for efficiency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33368	Since Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia mentioned the adoption of the minutes, I went out on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 85(2) of the minutes are being submitted in writing to the Administrative Committee. The document you received, namely all of us MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, states that the objections of the SPS were accepted and the whole story was narrowed down to Mrs Neda Arneric. Well, our objections weren't accepted. Not our remarks, our remarks are contained on two pages of the text. It was delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Administrative Committee and our remarks that the minutes cannot be adopted whole, as 126 MPs were not present when voting on the election of the governors of the National Bank and members of the Council. Besides Mrs. Neda Arneric, and I'm not going to abuse her, because she's not here, she should have said if she was or wasn't. Clearly, Mr Rafaelovic publicly said he was not present at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, please, with an insight into the listing of the computer copy from the vote, which we received after two months and when we filed a criminal complaint against the National Assembly and the National Assembly's secretary, because according to the Rules of Procedure, we have found that the misappropriated cards and the two of our MPs have already been notified. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: How? ) They were abused by someone using their card, and they were, according to the document, taking part in the vote, and they did not formally vote, but they did make up the 126-seat quorum. We filed criminal charges for this because four crimes took place that day, abuse of official office, unconscious service work, falsification of official documents, and so on. The judicial authorities will do all that. I went out to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, for the simple reason that the Administrative Board did not respect our remarks. Here he tries to adopt the minutes at a small door, so probably to determine some other course of this story. On that day, there were no 126 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and no choice was made according to the Rules of Procedure established. There's been one theft in parliament, a theft in the vote. The judicial authorities will do their job, but I am obliged on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to tell you that our remarks on the record have not been accepted and it is not correct to stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33369	National MP, you have received a report from the Administrative Committee, according to your remarks, the MPs have received a report. If you had objections to the report and to the minutes, you should have sent this to the Administrative Board in writing. As regards the document, yes, MPs may, under Article 82(6), express doubts about the existence of quorums identified by the application of the electronic system and, then, the President shall put into account the computer copy of the present Members of Parliament. You couldn't use that right because you weren't there. (Zarko Obradovic, from the place: No, but because you did not give the listing. ) You were not present at the vote. I will read to you again: "If the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the existence of quorum established by the application of the electronic voting system, the president shall put into account the computer copy of the present Members of Parliament. "You didn't get the listing because you didn't ask for it, because you weren't there, you didn't take part in the vote. If you are not satisfied, the Administrative Committee will give an answer to this. [[Sagar.]] Everything else is an empty story. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33370	Presidents of the Assembly, I insist that the motion for a decision to put aside the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia and the National Bank Council, since we learned from the media that Ambassador Rafaelovic was not there, and if he was not there, there were 125, means insufficient work and decision-making. I demand that my proposal be put to a vote here in the Assembly, as MP Rafaelovic repeatedly said he was not there. He's here, anyway, so let him confirm it himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33371	The right to replica has a National MP, Dragan Rafaelovic. You have six minutes, you're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since my name is being abused in various ways and in the press, and here I see here, I simply want to take that story off the agenda with this discussion or statement. My former ambassador group said in an interview with the Witness that he knew I was here. Others say and now they're yelling that I was there, and I made a statement that I made. The fact is, I was on session day, all day, I was there. Waiting for an hour and a half of quorum, I didn't want to wait any longer, so I took out my card and left and didn't attend the vote. How come my name's on the document, I don't know. So that's true and please don't abuse my name, and especially the SPS shouldn't do that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33373	I repeat once again, it is the right of all parliamentary groups, especially opposition groups, and in order to establish something, or to establish the truth, there is a procedure, there is the possibility that each parliamentary group, or every MP, should submit an initiative to form a committee or committee of inquiry, to establish the facts necessary to determine the truth. So far, there has been no such initiative, but it doesn't mean that, of course, I repeat for who knows which time, you can't handle it today. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. Logs of the sessions, the 10th, the 11th, the 12th, the 13th, the 14th and the 15th extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were delivered to you in 2003. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Committee found that, in writing, the objections of the MPs of Natasa Milojevic, the president of the DOS parliamentary group - the Social Democratic Party and Zarko Obradovic, the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, were delivered to the minutes of the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 22 July of this year, while the other records of the remarks were not made. You have received a report from the Administrative Board on the examination of the objections to the minutes of that session. We move to a decision on each record individually. 1. I am voting on the minutes of the July 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. For 118, against 122, four of the 244 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the minutes of the tenth extraordinary session of the National Assembly. 1. I am voting on the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 14 and 15 July this year. For 121 against 121, three of the 245 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. 3. I put the minutes of session 12 to the vote. An extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 15, 16, 17 and 18 July this year. For 120, against 122, three, 245 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this record either. 4. I'm putting the minutes of session 13. An extraordinary session of the National Assembly, held on July 22, 2003. For 121 against 122, they didn't vote two out of 245. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the minutes of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. 5. I am putting to the vote the minutes of the 14th edition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 22 July 2003, in the proposed text, with the proposal contained in the report of the Administrative Committee to add the words "and Neda Arneric" on page 1 at the end of Article 4 and to make the report of the Administrative Board an integral part of the minutes of this session. I put the minutes to the vote with the proposal contained in the Management Board's report. For 110, against 134, one of the 245 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this record. Six. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly, held on 27 August 2003. For 240, against one, a abstentioned one, was not voted by three, of 245 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. One statement. You have resigned Rodoljub Sabic as state administration minister and local self-government. In accordance with Article 202(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the resignation was notified to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind you that Article 202 is paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled for the National Assembly to find, without a search, that a member of the Government resigned and not to decide. According to Article 202(4). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that Rodoljub Sabic resigned as state administration minister and local self-government in the government of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33374	Dear fellow Members, we have come to a situation today that is not common in parliament, which is not to adopt the minutes from some of the sessions held in the meantime. I'm going out for article 110 that regulates the process of adoption of the minutes and I'm asking a logical question - what's the consequence of not adopting the minutes? This is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, because it is assumed and so has been in parliamentary practice, that all objections to the Rules of Procedure have always been justified, there may be some error in making up the minutes or some unintentional failure and we have not had such a situation. But now it's about things we can't just go through. We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that Mr Rafaelovic, five minutes ago, came out for this pay phone and told his truth, that he did not vote, and we know that there were 126 MPs in the hall at that session of July 22nd, not counting on Mrs Arneric, I will not talk about whether or not someone abused her card, there will be judicial authorities telling their truth, but we now know that there were 125 MPs and hence this number of MPs who voted against the adoption of that record. The logical consequence would be, if we were to apply the logical interpretation of a legal norm, that nothing that was done at that session was valid. I ask fellow Members of the People's Parliament, especially those who have the right to the profession, to think about this, to open up the discussion, although the minutes are not discussed, but if we do not overcome this in such a way, this today's vote by the MPs will be just another evidence in front of a competent court already dealing with the problem of counterfeit cards and voting in that session when the governor of the National Bank is elected. So at least those MPs who voted for the adoption of the minutes, and also the president of the assembly wants to ignore that fact, agree to turn a blind eye to the truth that is undeniable. On that day, there were no 126 e-mails in parliament. We haven't adopted that record, and that's quite enough to interpret that this is the way I suggested... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ....................................................................................................... No decision made that day can be made. Let those who think differently kill me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33375	National MPs, if you have seen the results of the vote on the logs, you will see that five minutes have not been adopted. Only one record was adopted. You are right, there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure that says that failure to adopt the minutes produces legal consequences. In any case, the Administrative Board may give an opinion on this, and as far as other disputed matters and facts are concerned, there is the possibility of forming a committee of inquiry or a committee of inquiry. The opposition MPs had the right and the authority to do so, did not, and they knew or had to know that the record did not produce a legal fact. So that's my answer. It does not produce a legal fact that the minutes are not adopted, but in any case the opinion should be given to the Administrative Committee. I ask you to move on to the agenda, and we will continue on to the Rules of Procedure, and there will be opportunities to discuss my responsibility as well. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the termination of the Fund Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 September this year, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 123, v 120, abstention one, did not vote one, a total of 245. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 September this year, be put on the agenda. For 123, against 119, they didn't vote three, 245 in total. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on value added tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 September this year, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 122, against 121, one didn't vote, a total of 244. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2003, should be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 124 against 121, a total of 245. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2003, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 124, against 119, they didn't vote two, a total of 245. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2003, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 121 against 123, not one, a total of 245. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 June this year, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 118, against 126, he didn't vote one, 245 in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September this year, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 118, against 119, abstention one, no vote eight, a total of 246. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Accounting and Audit Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 June this year, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 37, against 200, with six abstentions, they didn't vote three, a total of 246. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the environmental protection system, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October this year, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 116, versus 127, abstention one, they didn't vote two, a total of 246. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft energy law, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October this year, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 119, versus 125, they didn't vote two, a total of 246. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft railway law, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October this year, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 123 against 123, a total of 246. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed putting the draft law on foreign investment and promotion of exports, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October this year, following an urgent procedure. For 120, against 125, he didn't vote one, a total of 246. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic suggested putting the emergency procedure on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Republic Election Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2003. For 123, against 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of 246 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The High Judicial Council proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision to amend and supplement the number of judges and judges in courts, which submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 121 against 121, four of the 246 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan S. Tomic, Stevan Ž. Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Vladimir Garčević, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic proposed to put the draft law supplementing the Law on Broadcasting, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 27 May 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 10, against 221, two abstentions, did not vote 13, of 246 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan S. Tomic, Stevan Ž. Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Vladimir Garčević, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic suggested that the draft law on the termination of the Law on Liability for Human Rights, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 12 June 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 30, against 185, two abstentions, were not voted 28 out of 245 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. A group of 23 MPs from the DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia, proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to resolve members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency Goran Radenovic, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 June 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 99, against 134, the six abstentions, were not voted by six, of 245 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. A group of 23 MPs from the DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision to put out of force the election of Nenad Cekic as member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 June 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 85, against 143 abstentions, 10 did not vote seven out of 245 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. A group of 23 MPs from the DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of Vladimir Cvetkovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 June 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 85, against 140, with 14 abstentions, six out of 245 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. A group of 42,348 voters continued to put the draft law on temporary ban on the availability of certain assets, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 June 2003, following an emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 89, against 118, two abstentions, 37 of the 246 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group suggested putting the speedy process on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine all events, facts and circumstances that took place after 5 October 2000, related to the murder of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zoran Djindjic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 23 June 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 73, against 118, with nine abstentions, did not vote 46 out of 246 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Đuro Popovic proposed to put on the agenda the proposal for a declaration on measures to prevent terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 August 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 71, against 111 abstentioned six, it did not vote 57, out of 245 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. A group of 23 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested putting the draft law on the agenda of the Law on Planning and Construction, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 August 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 117 against 121 abstentions, four voted, a total of 246 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dejan Mihajlov proposed that the draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 September 2003, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 133, against 87, with ten abstentions, did not vote 16 out of 246 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Mihajlov proposed that the draft law on the termination of the Financial transaction Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 September this year, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 120, against 112, two abstentions, 12 did not vote, of 246 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dejan Mihajlov proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on the termination of the Fund Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 September this year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 112, against 115, it did not vote 19 out of 246 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vera Markovic suggested putting on the agenda the draft decision on measures to prevent violations of the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 September this year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 52, against 144 abstentions 17, it did not vote 33, out of 246 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Meho Omerovic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Rodoljub Sabic suggested putting the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 October this year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 180, against 59, with two abstentions, there was no vote of 5, of 246 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the first item of the agenda, the proposal for a decision to repeal the decision of the chairmanship of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003 since 18 March 2003, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 March this year. (Goldana Pop-Lazic: Business. You have no right. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 119, against 121, six of the 246 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bojan Pajtic suggested withdrawing the first item of the agenda from the proposed agenda -- a motion for a resolution of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 54 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already made a public statement that I want my trust and my responsibility discussed and therefore I ask the president of the DoS Reform Group of Serbia to withdraw the proposal to remove this point from the agenda, because I insist that it be discussed here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33376	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under article 86, I am withdrawing the motion to withdraw the first item of the agenda - a proposal for discharge of the National Assembly president. I respect the position of President of the National Assembly. Given the atmosphere, given what was said for this speaker, since in this assembly many MPs voted against a record of no objections, therefore, this kind of irrational atmosphere should be seen on small screens. That is why I am withdrawing the proposal to withdraw the second item of the agenda - a proposal for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the third item of the agenda. I think the promoters should be given a chance to show themselves in front of small screens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33377	I thank the president of the DOS Group of MPs for Serbia's reform. I am very prepared to face today those we defeated on October 5th and those who joined them. I find that MP Bojan Pajtic has withdrawn a proposal to take down three points of the agenda. A group of 42 MPs from the DOS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed to withdraw points 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 from the proposed agenda of the session, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does MP Dejan Mihaylov want to explain this request? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 105, against 122, two abstentions, 17 of the 246 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We're moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. National MP Bojan Pajtic suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point - a proposal to elect the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by a group of 51 MPs of the DOS Parliamentary Group Reform of Serbia -- the Democratic Party, on 9 October2003. A year. I ask that this proposal be spoken to by the National Assembly. For 111 against 127, it did not vote 8 out of 246 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We're moving on to the motions to merge the debate. National MP Bojan Pajtic, based on Article 86. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a discussion be brought together on the draft law on bankruptcy proceedings, the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants, the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Business Entities and the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Commercial Registers. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 119, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 5, of 246 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bojan Pajtic, based on Article 86. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to bring together the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of Infrastructure of Local Self-Government, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act and the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Transport through the Register of the Fiscal Memory, as well as the Proposal for Laws submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the Emergency Procedure, which, when setting out the agenda of the session, were previously accepted to be included in the agenda of this session and to: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Tax on the Fund of Profit, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenues and Public Expensions, - Proposal for a Law on Tax on Value of Value, - Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Markets of Public and Proports of the Laws of the Laws on Markets, and of Laws of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of Laws of Laws of the National Parliaments of the National Assembly, I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of course, they'll check the service for acceptance. What's not accepted, of course it can't be connected. What it is, there's a proposal to merge. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 118, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of 246 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 42 MPs from the DOS parliamentary group -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica -- the Democratic Party of Serbia, based on Article 86. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, which, on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia, the National Assembly was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov, to change the order of consideration in the agenda, so that it was discussed after the proposal for a decision to put aside the decision to elect the governors of the National Bank of Serbia and the motion for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia. Did he pass that proposal? No, it's not. It is essential to put him to the vote. National MP Natasa Milojevic, based on Article 86. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Rodoljub Sabic, be seen as the third item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 97, against 126, with five abstentions, it did not vote 18, of 246 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bojan Pajtic, based on Article 86. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a change in the order of the agenda points, so that the draft law on registration of business entities and the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Economic Registers (points 7 and 8 of the proposed agenda) is considered after the draft law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, as paragraphs 6 and 7 of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 112, against 130, four out of 246 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure and proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. For 238, with five abstentions, they did not vote three out of 246 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the agenda of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003 by majority. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a discharge of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Micic, who submitted a group of 54 MPs; 2. Proposal for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by a group of 23 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, 3. Proposal for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by a group of 43 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, 4. Proposal for a law on bankruptcy proceedings, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Business Entities, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Economic Registers, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 10. Proposal for a law on registering traffic through a register of fiscal memory, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 11. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Tax on the Fund of Profits, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 14. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 15 / 15 Proposal for a law to prevent conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov, 16. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs, submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Rodoljub Sabic. On the basis of Article 81, I'm setting a break of an hour, after which we'll approach the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33378	Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the first regular session of the autumn session. Please determine that we have a quorum to work on. Here you go. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PRESIDENT FOR THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the SRS parliamentary group, and MP Dragan Markovic, the SSJ parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33379	Dear fellow Members, I have come out to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure made by the President of the Assembly in the afternoon part of this session's session. I am truly very surprised that even today when we are discussing a request for the removal of the President of the Assembly, it gives itself the right to violate the Rules of Procedure so harshly. During the agenda, when we decided on an emergency procedure on the motion for a decision to repeal the presidency of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly since 18 March 2003, I came to the floor, since I have the right to do so under Article 87. The president of the National Assembly did not pay any attention, or she could see very well that I insisted that I get the word and that I needed to explain the proposal. That's why she allowed Mr. Pajtic, in a private conversation here, to come out for a pay phone, practically called him to go out for a pay phone and withdraw his proposal that he had, to take this point off the agenda. What would happen, I ask you, and the president of the assembly, if I had given up my proposal. What would the congregation say about? Do MPs even know what they were saying on this agenda point, without my explanation, which I had the right to do under Article 87, MPs were absolutely clueless about what they were voting on, except that they knew that the promoter was the MP of the people Gordana Pop-Lazic. So I think the Rules of Procedure in Articles 86 and 87 have been broken and I had to get a word in determining the agenda. There is another reason, in addition to all those that we will today, of course, point out by discussing the request for a resolution of the President of the Assembly, and we will eventually see what it will look like. We would really have to stop having double arches when it comes to this National Assembly, regardless of whether it is the proposals of the opposition MPs or those who are in power, those who are at the mercy of the speaker of the assembly or of the merciless. The speaker of the assembly would have to treat all MPs equally and respect their business rights. I'm asking, of course, for the Management Board to come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33380	At the meeting of the Administrative Board, there will be a debate and a statement on your injury, which has not been done, because a member of 87 does not mean the right to receive a hearing in determining the agenda in the case you have described. The word has been made by MP Dragan Markovic, a member of the SS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33381	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the time to discuss this item of the agenda be 10 hours, because it is five hours to say little about all that Mrs. Natasa Micic has done. I think this is a unique opportunity, as this session is being broadcast at RTS, a unique opportunity for Serbian citizens to hear directly what Ms Natasa Micic has been doing for the past two years. So instead of five, it'll be ten hours. Please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33382	I would like to vote on the proposal by the mandated promoter that the debate, in principle on the first item of the agenda, takes ten hours instead of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure, to resolve the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 153, against 14, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted Parliament MP Dragan Markovic's proposal and that the debate on the first item of the agenda will take ten hours. You received an official proposal submitted by a group of 54 MPs. I implore the Members of the People to take their conduct with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that we so often call upon and to hear each other in a debate that we all claim is important, so long that it takes ten hours, and I ask you to listen to us when opening the agenda. [[Sagar.]] You received that proposal from a group of 54 MPs. I remind you that we voted that the debate would take ten hours. The total debate time for parliamentary groups is ten hours. I ask all MPs' groups to submit a list of the names of MPs and their order to the National Assembly's secretary, who want to participate in the debate on a motion to resolve the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Micic. I'm opening a search. Does the proposing representative, MP Gordana Pop - Lazic, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, as a proposing item of the agenda. Just a brief announcement, a member of the DOS-Citizen's Union of Serbia was formed, and according to the rules of our Rules of Procedure and they participate in the debate by percentage participation in the overall time for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33383	Dear fellow Members of the People, at the beginning of the argument for this motion on the discharge of the President of the Assembly, I would like to ask you and the President of the National Assembly not to take any of what we say after the speaker personally, because it really is nothing personal. This debate should serve to teach all of us and to show us what the president of the assembly should not be and what he should be. We know from some political experience, gentlemen, that the President of the Assembly in his capacity, if he can use it, can be the most popular person in the country. There's nothing for the people to be angry with the president of the assembly. He doesn't pass laws, he doesn't enforce laws, if he has minimum tolerance, if he can build parliamentaryism, he can really be a person of the highest reputation in the country. Unfortunately, for these three years, we have been in a situation that we have been very often harassed and humiliated and insulted by the President of the Assembly, and he is what he has never understood, only the first among the equal, the People's MP as the rest of us. What's the president of the assembly supposed to be? Speaker in this House. The constitution also gives him additional powers in exceptional situations, if the president of the state is in a position to perform his duties, the speaker of parliament is in charge. We unfortunately have now in circulation some function v.d. The president of the state, although it does not stand in the Constitution. Someone got himself some calling, some function, even though it doesn't exist anywhere. To do our duty for a short time, as the Constitution predicts, until we overcome this situation, just as it happened to us after the failed December elections. This proposal was tabled by 54 MPs. So many signatures were collected in some time of half an hour, as many MPs found in the Assembly on that day, are MPs from the Serbian Radical Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Socialist People's Party. Obviously, we could have collected a very large number to submit this proposal. There was no time for that, but the day before yesterday shows us that most here in parliament were ready to discuss the resolution of the president of the National Assembly. To the truth, after such a debate Tuesday, as the session was under way, i.e. it had not even begun, and was scheduled at the request of the president of the Assembly for 14 October at 10.00 hours, we expected Mrs. Micic to resign. It's the least she could do to preserve her reputation. Unfortunately, she does not consider herself responsible for this state of parliamentaryism in Serbia, and then we will have to make arguments to prove her otherwise. Madam President of the National Assembly has been doing this duty since 6 December 2001, but since the formation of the first Djindjic government, she has been vice-president of the National Assembly and has been very often in a situation to replace the then president of the National Assembly. She was also acting as vice president when she chaired, and as president of the National Assembly. On behalf of the President of the Assembly, however, there went to the Vice-President of the Parliament, who has made it impossible for the MPs to take all the necessary measures, for the same thing, as the MP of the then DOS majority would say, if the MP of the opposition would repeat it, was punished, he was told measures, warnings, first, second, confiscation of words, away from the session, brutally taken from the session. And all of this subsequently culminated well with the session of the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who was told the distance from the 90-day session. For both the president of the National Assembly and the Administrative Committee, the 90 days last a year. It is an obvious reckoning with a man who may have the most parliamentary experience in this House, who is already being called the People's Tribunal and who has been a major distraction in this House, so that everything will be going as possibly DOS's majority would like. So, the powers of the President of the Assembly are provided by the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure that we have. The Rules of Procedure are clear. The President of the National Assembly is doing the tasks provided for in the Constitution, and I have already explained this, in which cases he chaires meetings of the National Assembly, and this goes in favour of my claim and claims made by this group of MPs, who sent this proposal to the National Assembly and to the National Assembly, that it is only the first among the equals. It is old on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and as Mrs Micic took care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly today and the next days, and I believe that the debate will take several days, I will prove to you these copies from the stenographic notes, and I hope that you will have enough patience to listen to all this. That's as much for you as for the public who's following this Parliament's meeting. The President of the National Assembly also takes care of the leisure and concerted work of the National Assembly’s working bodies and performs other tasks provided for by law and by this Rules of Procedure. I must begin to tell you that there is no whim of this group of MPs, especially the MPs of the SRS who have been most often harassed and whose rights have been compromised in this parliament, but the need to seek the resolution of the president of the National Assembly, all in order to preserve and improve parliamentaryism in Serbia. Once again, I want to remind you and bring you back to that end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century when radicals created parliamentaryism in Serbia. We want to point out that the President of the Assembly has been knowingly in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, starting with the appointment of sessions, the adoption of the minutes, and this has happened to us today, and we have pointed out this, and it is impossible for Mrs. Micic to be aware that after we have not adopted the minutes from the session at which Kori Udovic was elected governor of the National Bank, this choice is no longer legitimate. The record shows that all of this is falling into the water and that it is now taking responsibility for all the consequences that will take place. There may be no record and no business sanctions and consequences, but there are always criminals and they can't be escaped. Then, lead the session. You know, it's hard from the stenographic notes or by reading only the stenographic notes to prove what kind of atmosphere was created in the National Assembly when the president of the National Assembly chaired the sessions, but all those who watched, in time while there were television broadcasts, and here we have them again today, and we'll talk about it later, and why, they could see by tone, by mimica, by the gesture that the president of the National Assembly held here in the running session of the National Assembly. As for maintaining order in the sessions and ensuring the equality of the Members of the People, I will show you a little proof of that. We asked the authorised office of the Assembly for Financial and Material Affairs to provide us, of course, with information as to how much punishment the President of the National Assembly has given to the court responsible for the recovery of those funds. It's about two million dinars, and it doesn't matter. Two million dinars out of our pockets is no problem. The problem is that these two million dinars are given for charity and it turns out that Natasa Micic is a benefactor. Let her give us our money back and probably the National Assembly will have to pay it back, and we'll give it to charity where we think we should. You know, the problem is this country, and on the hand of Natasa Micic, many things have gone to the heart of the Constitutional Court for allowing her to do so, because after the adoption of this and this kind of Rules of Procedure, there is a request at the Constitutional Court for a review of many provisions, especially those concerning such monetary sanctioning of MPs, distances from the session to this many days and so on. To this day, the Constitutional Court has not found time to deal with this, from which we can conclude that it has tolerated and tolerated such a way of working by parliament and that it is for some reason in favour of violating the rights of MPs in parliament in such a brutal way. I must remind you, you probably forgot, when we passed the Labour Act that there was no more disciplinary punishment for employees. Imagine the absurdity that you can't discipline anyone, any employee who works at any company, and here in the National Assembly you can punish with 32,000 MPs because the president of the Assembly didn't like what he said. Which is worst, most often the one whom the MP may be political assaulting, which is why we are only here, to calculate politically, to keep everything here in this room, to cross arguments here, if one of the MPs calls any minister, put something on his mind that he thinks is not in the interests of the people and the state, that minister has the opportunity to come out, to defend himself, to replicate and there's no need for any gendarme behind the back of the one who speaks of it to warn or punish him financially. To this extent, we have led to the absurdity of the institution of the People's Parliament that we have received a silent-community. Whoever's quiet is, whoever's talking right now gets their backs from the president of the National Assembly, and it's probably counting on you to shut us up that way, that we're not gonna talk about what we are here for, and we're only here to pass on the will of the citizens who voted for us. You who have no patience to listen to what I'm talking about tomorrow at a rally in Nis at 1700 hours to hear from Tomislav Nikolic, who has no opportunity to speak to you from here. By applying the double arches and the obvious imposition of inequality between the MPs of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly has made it possible for MPs in the National Assembly to not simply choose to represent the citizens who chose them. We fought it, of course. You have failed to silence us with any such rules of procedure, nor with such measures as the president of the National Assembly. All MPs who do not belong to the MP group DOS - Serbia's Reform were subjected to the undiscovered hatred of the president of the National Assembly, and you must agree, at least you who are here in the third, fourth term, that such a thing is not recorded in parliamentary practice, at least in this newer, and I believe in that old parliamentary history that such a thing would not be tolerated for two months, and here we have endured three years. When we talk about the President of the National Assembly being obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, it would always, but it always had to mean that she had to be impartial, to be objective and fair to all and to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in this way. However, we have a situation that apparently the unconstitutional Rules of Procedure are being misapplyed and thus further upgrades. MPs belonging to the DOS parliamentary groups, although this is now getting smaller every day, can relax from the assembly payphone to be both political attitudes and personal insults, and if the opposition's MPs do so again, then they are the target of punishment and shagging. The National Assembly should be an institution in which political views will be preserved, represented by citizens, adopted and passed laws and controlled by the executive authority. How is the control of the executive authority carried out? Through the MPs. What situation have we brought ourselves to, or Parliament? That the government is in control of parliament. Is that normal, ladies and gentlemen, in one country where there should be all the institutions of the system and the kind of division of power that the Constitution provides for? Yesterday, Mrs. Comic said it would be good for everyone in the state to do their job and explain what her job was, to come at the end of the session and tell the MPs that the session is being postponed. Now the question arises, if the chairman, if we have the president of the National Assembly, if we only need the vice presidents for that, so what do they have this kind of pay? We can bring anyone from the street here and sit down and tell us that the session is delayed indefinitely or at a certain time. Thanks to this president of the National Assembly, meetings of the National Assembly are held without quorum. First we had one Rules of Procedure, one of which was a normal quorum of 126 MPs, and at a certain point, at a certain point, it was almost two years ago impossible to bring together 126 MPs here without opposition MPs, and then the quorum for Parliament's work was brought down to 84 MPs. There has been no day that we have not been in a situation where on many occasions we MPs warn the National Assembly president that there are no 40, 50, 60 MPs in the room and that it is so impossible to work. That, of course, is obvious from this place, you can see that. We've never been in a situation where the president of the National Assembly says -- here, I can see from here that we don't have a quorum to work with, please check it out or take a break. We have never experienced this in this House, but we have therefore experienced the introduction of cards to the President-in-Office, in the light of the Parliament's President-in-Office, and these MPs who are not in Parliament on that day or are not presently in Parliament. I know it's much more pleasant and pleasant out of this room, but if we want to work, we need to provide that minimum you've set up here with this Rules of Procedure, and that's 84 MPs. What happens when we point to that fact, when sometimes, to let the President of the Assembly know that these MPs are gone, we go and start pulling cards from MPs' units, we get warnings, not those who abuse other people's cards. This, gentlemen, then led to the situation as it happened that, when we adopted the Labour Act, Mr. Novakovic voted from Greece, so when we adopted the Law on Lustration there were no 126 MPs, so when it was voted on by Mrs. Kora Udovicki and her appointment as governor of the National Bank, there were no 126 MPs, it was known who and whose card he used, and he did not carry any consensus. This is what has become intolerable and has made us submit this proposal to the National Assembly at this time. Mrs. Micic, and when she is directly warned that DOS MPs abuse identification cards, and she simply cannot help but notice from this place, because we occasionally remind her of the name and last name of the MPs who abuse it, she shuts up, turns her head to the other side and thus supports frequent counterfeits and thus consents and participates in falsifying the political will of the people. This is not only, ladies and gentlemen, the political consequence that will happen if Ms. Micic is relieved of the functions of the National Assembly president, it is little to happen to the president of the National Assembly who for these reasons is resolved. Even if it were not resolved, if there were no political consequences, they would have to, the judicial authorities in charge of it, that without any pressure, free and independent decision on what they are and all those procedures that are already in the process, and I believe there will be more. As for how to schedule the National Assembly session on 18 March 2003, and this was the first session scheduled in emergency, Ms. Micic introduced emergency practice in the application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and most often on Fridays in afternoons or nights in the premises of parliamentary clubs, we received a session of the National Assembly held in our offices on Tuesday. We often had to monitor TV broadcasts to find out when meetings of the National Assembly would take place. It was simply impossible for MPs, finding out on Friday at 20.00 hours that a session was scheduled for Tuesday starting at 10.00 hours, to come to Belgrade, to take material or call from their offices, to submit amendments, to study the laws, and to what did this all lead to? Most MPs came to the session on Tuesdays unprepared, and the intention was only to get rid of the individual draft laws submitted by the government as soon as possible and to hold the debate as soon as possible. The aim of Parliament and parliamentary debate is not to keep the debate as short as possible, but to give us enough time to measure everything and to consider everything so that we can pass laws in the same form and with the kind of content that does not harm citizens, but goes in favour of the citizens of Serbia. You've been constantly calling for some reforms and slowing down some reforms, we have to hurry, so you've been saying that expensive sessions of the Assembly cost a lot of money, so I'm asking if it really costs a million dinars as you say, what about those million dinars of Tuesday that we've been watching them wait here to start the session. A concrete proposal would be mine, the Assembly could make a statement, that the president and vice presidents would raise that money, so they could make up for this state to Serbia. Since Natasa Micic was elected president of the National Assembly, something new and completely contrary to the rules of the Rules of Procedure has been applied, which is that the government should not have a representative in parliament as a proponent of the act under investigation. We do not remember that the government was in Parliament in full, and I will remind you that it was once a rule, because in this way the representatives of the government also showed respect for Parliament and were always there so that we could ask them some parliamentary question and that immediately, if they are ready for this parliamentary question and answers. Not only was it not a complete government here present, but the government's representative did not favour the MPs to endure a full search on that agenda, which was tolerated by the president of the National Assembly or by the authority the president of the National Assembly had towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting that almost all MPs, regardless of what parliamentary groups, are very often MPs of the then parliamentary majority, warned that when setting the agenda, the chronological order of delivery of the acts must be taken into account. Since she could not accept these well-intentioned suggestions, it happened to us that, for example, in April 2003, the National Assembly discussed the draft law that the Government submitted to the National Assembly in February 2002 or March 2001 and appointed as its representatives the promoters of persons who are not even ministers anymore. That's what happened to us here. This is because the president did not take care to warn the government in time that he had to renew the proposal and that the current minister's authority to be a representative. It may seem incredible, but only at a session of the National Assembly, following the opposition of the SRS MP, Milorad Mircic, that Goran Pitic, the minister who, in the accompanying letter with the bill was designated a representative of the government, did not swear after three months of the election for the minister, realised that in her passion she had made a huge failure, which has not yet been recorded in Serbia's history. The adoption of the bill, i.e. the debate was interrupted so that Minister Goran Pitic would take an oath and thus somehow mitigate the consequences, if it was possible in any way possible for them to be tempered, because Goran Pitic, as a citizen, had been here in parliament for months, and we know that he could not be at the post unless he took an oath in the National Assembly before the MPs. That's when we barely stopped the noise and the shame. But worst of all, the president of the National Assembly didn't realize Mr. Mircic's well-meaning. She could at least thank him for pointing out the negative consequences that we would have had to overcome. What has made all of us particularly impossible in the normal work here in parliament, is that, since Mrs. Micic is the president of the National Assembly, there is no longer any obligation of the government to deliver timely opinions on amendments that MPs refer to certain draft laws. So it happened to us that we had neither the government’s position nor the individual committee’s position on certain issues in the debate. It became a practice for the Government to submit amendments to its proposals before the debate was opened and before the MPs were able to submit the amendments. That is why it has often happened that, with its proposal for the Act, the Government also delivers its amendments, so we simply did not know which text to submit the amendment to, whether to the original or to the amendment. In this whole mess of things, they had the highest number of experts or advisors employed in the National Assembly, who had struggled to create the final text of the law, which they had to make before it was published in the Official Messenger. I doubt there's been a mistake and it's all gone the way the Rules of Procedure intended. The reports of the board were very often delayed, so we were going to finish a full debate on the proposals of the individual laws, and then we got reports from the board. It is the president of the National Assembly who should coordinate the work of the committee, who in such situations can also take a break, can call on the committee, after all, to call on the members of the board to be responsible and to say that it is not satisfied and that it proposes a resolution, in order to elect new members of individual committees. As acting president of the Republic of Serbia, she says, and so the media conveys other officials in the state speak of it, although only performing that function, Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly, has made a decision to introduce an emergency situation in Serbia, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws governing the state of emergency. That is why the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is under the procedure of assessing constitutionality and legality, because no one should reconcile with the fact that it violated both the Constitution and the law on that occasion, and the federal law and the republic. As a result of such an obvious unconstitutional and illegal decision, direct television broadcasts of the National Assembly have ceased. I must remind you that the sessions of the National Assembly have been carried directly since March of 1998 and that this is the flow of SRS MPs, until the day that Natasa Micic has abolished TV broadcasts during the state of emergency, and when the state of emergency has been lifted, no one has been able to return RTS to the Assembly and that RTS continues to directly transfer the sessions of the National Assembly, in order for the public to control us sent to parliament, what we are doing and whether we are doing in their interest or to harm them. We are convinced that once the Constitutional Court will decide this. This Constitutional Court probably won't, because this isn't a constitutional court, independent of parliament, independent of the government. This is a constitutional court that extends the hand of the Serbian government and makes decisions depending on the day-to-day political interests, and then it happens to you that some of the decisions of the Constitutional Court after you are back on their heads and return as a boomerang. That's the situation with the parliamentary mandates, but we'll talk about it some other time. I hope we have more opportunities to talk about this. I wouldn't remind you now that we still, unfortunately, have the work and merit of the president of the National Assembly, 12 citizens in this assembly who are not MPs. We have Mr. Stevan Lilic, who in legal error resigned, and now in legal error he thinks he's an MP and is even in legal error a member of the Constitutional Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that we should not allow in parliament, which we would have to correct, but this situation is tolerated by the recent parliamentary majority, now, obviously, in the minority. These are the last markets and this president of the National Assembly and the Serbian Government, who obviously wants to get some time, to delay this debate a little bit. We'll give them opportunities for something like that. We'll talk about how much time that will allow us until we've exhausted all the arguments. We know it's on their hands, and we don't want to spoil their bill. It is that we have more important work to do, it is that presidential elections are scheduled, that the campaign is under way, but we will have the strength to work on two tracks, here in Parliament, tomorrow in Nis, the day after tomorrow in Valjevo, naks tomorrow in Pirot and so on. At the meeting of the National Assembly's board of directors, when the representatives of the RTS tried to explain why they did not make a direct transfer, all present, and there were many MPs, of course no one counted that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party would come, but we surprised you, too, could conclude that Mrs. President of the National Assembly further contributed to the government's decision to ban the transfer effectively. The explanation is given. RTS is now a public service. He has no economic interest, he won't transfer the National Assembly sessions, but that's why he wants to put his hand into the state budget, because he's still funding exclusively from the state budget. How can someone who lives off the money in my pocket tell me they won't do anything. When Bogoljub Karic now said that he would be transferring the sessions of the National Assembly, the faster-better-to-better RTS is that he was transferring the sessions of the National Assembly. It all became clear the moment the RTS returned here to parliament and returned at the request of Natasha Micic. Only she could approve it according to the Rules of Procedure, and she only did what the Serbian government ordered her to do. Anything you don't hear from me, you'll hear from Tomislav Nikolic in the election campaign, and I hope very soon here and here at this pay phone, because I hope that even if he doesn't run out of time this sentence that he still has, from 49 days, if he wins, then I hope that Natasa Micic will not forbid him from entering this door to swear an oath here as president of the state. I don't really believe that. All that the National Assembly has done since 22 May 2002 is the result of the greatest brutality ever to be falsified by the work and decisions of the National Assembly, led by Natasa Micic. No one can accurately determine how many National Assembly members and "citizens" Natasa Micic allows to be represented as MPs. The proposals for acts are voted by citizens, even those who, to mention that name again, were often in a state of legal error. No decision by the Constitutional Court on the disputed parliamentary mandates has been carried out. Such MPs, who are in legal error, are now making a move at the Faculty of Law and against those honorable professors, long-standing, who have raised and taught generations of lawyers, but what to do is this democratic reality. The conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is not only ours, but all those citizens who have at least once watched television broadcasts of our sessions, that Mrs. Micic of these two functions she performs, she has naturally usurped and adopted, and one has won here thanks to the will of the majority, although I do not know what she deserves, as a representative of a minor political party, but it is already a matter within the coalition itself. I don't want to get into it; human policy is something I leave with them and I don't blame them, they could choose whoever they wanted, that's what they say about themselves. Both of these functions are performed by diletarian, volunteering, brutal violation of the rules, abuse of authority and, of course, unjustly long without cover in regulations and even more unjustly and undeserved. And, of course, contrary very often to the Constitution, the law, most often the Rules of Procedure, which is our internal legal act that has the power of the law and based on which we work. Someone allegedly had his discretionary right, set up by the rules of procedure, although absolutely unconstitutional, to decide when he would call the elections for the president of the Republic, maximumly as president of the Assembly to ensure that she would stay as long as possible in office of the President of the Republic of Serbia. The candidate for the MP at 160th and some place in the DOS election list since December 2000, with some incredible circumstances, has found herself in a position to perform functions that are clearly not up to it. I suppose it's funny to the citizens, but for the state, believe it's fatally ten months that Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly, sends letters to Natasa Micic, who performs the post of president of the Republic of Serbia, and performs with her or herself a daily active state correspondence. Look out, everyone would go crazy if they were texting each other every day. It's intolerable for a man to be a double personality. There's got to be some conflict. It's just that it's been ten months too long for a man to sum up in himself to be both President of Parliament and V.D., as you say, President of the Republic. I mean, it's a nice building, and it's a nice building, and it's a nice building, and it's there in the morning, and it's here this afternoon, but it's fine. You will hear all of our arguments from us at the great myths in Serbia; each day one rally. As an example, I will state the situation and the possibility that Mrs. Micic was unable to understand that state function, as acting president of the Republic, what Mr. Soros told her at the official reception. If she had little consideration for the function she performs, she would probably draw Soros's attention to his views on Kosovo and Metohija during the official talks, and remember what Soros then said - that for him Kosovo and Metohija is a separate part of Serbia and expects it to be independent; that position, if nothing else, may not have been contrary to the personal position of the president of the Assembly and someone who performs the duties of the president of the Republic, but is contrary to the position of the National Assembly. Please, what level is it that someone acting as president of the state is receiving a businessman. That's really scary. The descent to that level of the state of Serbia is characterized by someone who is in the post, it is disastrous. This shows the inadequacy of the one who came up with these circumstances in that function. I can take all your laughs, but I don't think I do that to you, dear gentlemen, when you're at the pay phone. I'm just looking for a replica, and if I get one, I'm replicating it. Serbia has never had such a bad president of the National Assembly, as it has had in this past two years. It's a finding. If you went out to the street now in front of the National Assembly building and asked any passerby, everyone would tell you that. I just can't imagine how, here, even though you're my political opponents, you didn't realize at some point that it didn't work out for you, that it did you any harm to find someone who didn't have enough width and who couldn't introduce you or who might have introduced you exactly as he is. Since this and such example is, and the necessity makes us, of course, resolve this situation, that is why we have also requested the resolution of the president of the National Assembly. In this proposal, we have presented several reasons that exist, which are generally known and which no one can deny, although I believe that you will try to go out for this pay phone to say that we are guilty of everything ourselves. The President of the National Assembly who violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and has to take care of their implementation, does not implement the Rules of Procedure, is not objective and impartial, abuses a little of the authority that he owns, is malicious, and it is obvious that parts of the MPs, very vindictive, expresses the measures and distances MPs from the sitting room and acts as dictators, the reasons why we are looking for its resolution. Our finding is, our political assessment is that it is an evil for parliamentaryism in Serbia and the protagonist of crime, as a member of an organised criminal group to falsify the results of the vote in the National Assembly. I remind you, both you and the president of the National Assembly, Ms. Micic, that the SPS has a lawsuit before the court in charge of counterfeiting votes; there are criminal proceedings on the complaint of the SRS MP Stevan Kesjejic, who has had a lighter heart attack here in the hall, thanks to the measures that the President of the National Assembly has resorted to; according to Dr. Goran Cvetanovic, the SRS MP, who has also suffered physical injuries; according to Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, who you have in an unconstitutional, illegal and anti-business manner, and who have prevented from performing the parliamentary post, most likely, until the end of the term of this assembly. Since the election is nearing its end, and since there are extraordinary elections, I don't know if they'll be able to enter this National Assembly in any new assembly or possibly as president of the state, and I expect it to be. The courts, who spoke to the authorities, will resolve, we hope, in accordance with the law, and I don't know, for God's sakes, how many slaves will be enough when all this is combined after the decision of the competent courts and how much Natasa Micic will have to do off all that she deserves by doing this in the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Professor Vojislav Seselj, when he went to The Hague, on the indictment you wrote to him here in Belgrade, said and asked the Serbian people to forgive him for leaving and failed to remove you from power. Then we made a vow to him that we would do it for him and very quickly. Believe me, we're surprised how soon after he left, we were able to kick your ass. I sincerely hope and I am convinced of this, and I realized only after both of these proposals have been synchronised and a proposal to resolve the president of the National Assembly and a motion to vote for mistrust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how wisely we have done this and how much we have fought you over it. So, both, I am convinced, will be adopted in this House, unless, in some magical way, you put this to a vote, say, on 31 January 2004, which is expected of you, because you have violated the Rules of Procedure many times so far, so it is possible that you will do so now. You can let us talk for a few days, and then the session breaks up and continues in 20 days, in a month, let's wait for the presidential election, so there's a lot in circulation and there's a lot to calculate about. Anyway, we're not at a loss, we're always winning. We can talk now and vote on the same day, we can vote in a month, two, three, but believe me, time goes by, two, three, four months, it's just a loss for Serbia, and for us, the MPs here, in that sense it's not. We'll hold out. When - then it will be on the agenda for the vote and then, of course, you have lost power. Please, it's totally painless, it doesn't hurt, it's something that's normal. A man, as he comes into office, must be aware that one day he will leave. The sooner he deals with it, the easier it is for him and for politics and for democracy and for parliamentaryism in Serbia at all. Since you haven't even honored me with a glass of water here, even though I've been talking for an hour, I'm going to take a little break, since I don't have limited time as a proposing representative, and then after that, we're going to have about 200 pages of evidence of everything that Natasa Micic has done as president of the National Assembly in parliament, in violation of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33384	The word has the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, National MP Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33385	Dear Members of Parliament, MPs, dear colleagues, I am glad that my initiative to assess my work, as president of the National Assembly, allows me to once again clarify some of the concerns that exist in public. On the other hand, I have to admit, I'm not glad that this is one of the parties' initiatives that is most responsible for everything we've defeated in the 24th of September 2000 elections. I must admit that I also consider my personal defeat the fact that these forces are still so strong in Serbia. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, no attempt was made to put forward such an initiative, at least someone three years ago who was on the side of Serbia and the future, but we're going in line. When we established this assembly, the majority of citizens at the time promised to change Serbia, to change the system that lasted 50 years with the modifications. For these underage three years, this congregation has worked more than in those 50 years. Before that, parliament was just a farce, because what the data suggests was that in 2000, it sat for just seven days, for example, in 1997 only three days. [[Applause]] And so does the entire state and the Assembly. He's trying to get to the pace that we've imposed, and certainly there are mistakes and failures, but it's much more important what's positive, because it has more than mistakes. Mistakes are being tried today, and what we have done well in the future, I hope, in the near future, that is, the citizens of Serbia, but in the next parliamentary elections. I can understand the anxiety and anger of many who feel nostalgia after the old, during irresponsibleness. I understand the fear of many of the changes, which will forever prevent the return to the old. They would like to rule a little according to Milosevic's constitution and therefore do not want to change it, whether they like the irresponsibility and repression that Milosevic has reserved for themselves and his allies or may like social property. However, the laws that this congregation has passed come out of a period of irresponsibility and enter into a system based on respect for human rights, private property and competition. The political consensus to do what has to be done to make it easier for the next government on that path to be a sign that we are a serious state and responsible people. Unfortunately, there is no consensus. Not only is there no consensus but all the funds are being used to slow Serbia's move towards Europe or stop Serbia from returning to mud and isolation. In that attempt, some of you, immature or blind, have long been conducting a constant obstruction that passes into destruction, and I keep talking about it, do not participate in the quorum, endure meaningless amendments, swear, do various things that a normal man should be ashamed of. But they're not ashamed that after all that, they're just talking about their salaries and raising their wages and their journals. To avoid misunderstandings, I am sure that citizens who voted for such MPs are normal and decent people who care about better life and the future of Serbia. Just because of these citizens, your voters, you were punished, as well as for tolerateing such behaviour for me would be an act of irresponsibility and disrespect for the Rules of Procedure. So, you deserve all the punishments you got. You have no idea how much longer I've abstained from being stricter. Let's move on, we have to open up all the themes. [[Applause]] In public, there's a misunderstanding for what's-his-name. a case of "absorbed mandates". First, both today and yesterday, and a year ago, at every moment the National Assembly had a constitutional number of MPs, which is 250. Secondly, the mandates of the DSS parliamentary group were never taken away. I'm not saying there was no initiative, but it was never implemented to the end. The mandates of the DSS parliamentary group have never been taken away. Third, after the Constitutional Court's decision that the mandates in the proportional electoral system belong to MPs, rather than to the parties for which the citizens voted, the procedure for returning the previously suspended mandates is ongoing. It's about seven MPs. The assembly is in a chain of those decisions in the middle, between the parties and the RIK. The procedure must be repeated and that is why it is taking place, since not only has the Administrative Board participated in that decision, it cannot return those mandates alone. As far as voting for the governor of the National Bank is concerned, a lot has been said and in fact everything is said, but I feel the same kind of responsibility as Mr. Martian for the Thessaloniki affair when he was president of the Assembly. But unlike him, I've done everything I can to get to the truth, but I can't do the job of the opposition, to make an objection to the quorum, and I'm asking for a roll call, which they didn't do because they didn't attend, because they don't respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm not going to ask for a summons of the Administrative Board or a committee of inquiry, which they had the right to do. I launched an initiative at the Constitutional Court that explained to the opposition what their rights were. They didn't even listen to the Constitutional Court. That's enough from me. I'm responsible for the work of some institutions, but that doesn't mean I have to do the work of the opposition, it doesn't occur to me. Next, a presidential election call. In September of last year, I was responsible for putting them out on parrano. Some wanted extraordinary parliamentary elections, and Milutinovic did not bother them, the government bothered them. Okay, that's their policy and their responsibility. Since these elections failed, in the second round, because of the censorship, we abolished the censorship in the second round and called new ones in December. The Constitution is respected, just because I called first too soon. So we had time to do two electoral procedures. Interestingly, the only thing I remember about that election was that no one attacked me. For the New Year's Eve, I took over as acting officer, more specifically on December 29th last year. Still, some felt it was better for Milutinovic to remain still, regardless of what they wanted to introduce himself as legalists. We're dealing with them today, and who they are, we all know that. Then the Constitutional Charter was adopted. (I don't use a pay phone to say what is meant, which is done by the opposition. We have committed ourselves to this constitutional charter, which we have adopted here by almost two-thirds of the majority, that we will bring the constitution within six months. In addition, the law allowed me to honor that six-month term. I've been accused of wanting to remain an executive of my duties indefinitely. Since the constitution is out of sight, and by respecting the law and the constitution, in September for the third time I called the presidential elections. Now no one's telling me that I want to remain a performer of duty, but that I've called those elections when some potential candidates aren't ready for those elections. They are the ones who are good at Milosevic's constitution, but it is not good for the government, so they want to vote according to the old constitution. Maybe someone thinks that immature politics, child-style, I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I can get results, and maybe they don't have a better policy, or they have some secret policy that doesn't have anything to do with choices. What's the point? The point is, it's time for us to get our secret policies out into the open. This is all about politics and nothing else. That's why I want a debate to be held and to vote on the SRS proposal for my resolution. That is why my resignation would continue to leave much hidden from the eyes of the public and it would not be fair to the citizens of Serbia. Fortunately, the Lustration Act has been passed, and soon we will all who do public work to face our past. There's no demagogy, larma, or misinformation to prevent the separation of wheat from the weeds. I'm aware that all of us here share in those who are terrified and those who look forward to it. The line is not a line between the government and the opposition, but no people with similar postwar history could escape from that confrontation, of course if they wanted to move forward. Of course, neither will Serbia. Even if an anti-lustration majority is made in this assembly, the law on opening files will be prevented, but only briefly. Some future congregation will certainly carry out this first - order government task. For Serbia, this is even more important than for some of our neighbours, because only here was the prime minister of the first democratic government killed. Those who killed him were caught by Serbia's reaction and only delayed their plans. Now they lifted up their heads and those who actively took part in the conspiracy, and those who knew about it and secretly rejoiced in her and those who only desired her. Maybe they can win this battle, but war doesn't. That also shows them the overcrowding of the detention unit in The Hague. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I was elected a national MP, together with most of the DOS, I had a clear vision of what Serbia should look like and what we should do to get to such a Serbia -- a country where citizens will have a clear perspective, which will depend most on themselves, not on the state, party or powerful individuals, in which patriotism will be a better life for individuals and a safe future, not irrational collective theories from the past, where it will be important to us how roads, schools, hospitals, hospitals, where they all move in, and not move in, in which citizens have dignity, which is respected by neighbors. These values were shared by most of this congregation. I'm still faithful to them. Whether or not the majority of this assembly is still behind those values will show, of course, and debate and vote on my trust. I absolutely claim that I have never broken the Constitution, nor the law, and that's why I'm completely calm, my conscience is calm. That's the most important thing for me right now, and you gentlemen vote on your conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33386	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, as a promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33387	Dear colleagues, if I had known that Ms. Micic would give such a speech, believe me, I would have significantly shortened her exposé, because her speech was more in favour of our argument than mine. Although, I'm convinced she didn't write it herself, I can bid on who it is, but I wouldn't, because I could earn some notice here from the current chairman, so I'll leave it to you to judge for yourself. But also on this occasion, from this pay phone, the moment we discuss its resolution, Mrs. Micic says amendments to the MPs are pointless. It is to this extent inappropriate to this present situation, in general, the situation in parliament. Mrs. Micic, there are committees that say - this amendment is legally possible or not legally possible, this one is in accordance with the law, and this one is not, depending on which committee is declared, but no one has the right to say that the amendment of the MP is pointless. It's a direct insult to the MP. You told us that the conclusion is that we're not normal. We look like we're really not normal when we've waited two years for this point to be on the agenda. We should have reacted like this a long time ago. We waited for the moment when you were weakest and we knew we'd succeed. The timing, as the athletes would say, is excellent. We've been taking a nice time to do that, and there's no coming back. And what, dear gentlemen who have applauded and dear Mrs. Micic, the detention unit in The Hague, I can tell you that there is a much better quality government in The Hague and a much better quality parliament than in Belgrade today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33388	They have come to the floor, and according to the Rules of Procedure, the words can now be given to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, MP Zarko Obradovic and MP Borislav Pelevic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33389	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected fellow citizens, who have so brave power in Serbia that we had to drive them out of the mouse hole to come out to this assembly, to account for the citizens. They're so brave, they're so bold, they've been hiding in the cabinets for three days, dangerous to the bodyguard's misery. It is this courageous authority that fears nothing and does not run away from its responsibility. Do not run away from responsibility when she is willing to blackmail, corrupt, bribe, buy MPs who will support her in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33390	People's MP, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(2) and the obligation of each of us to address one another with respect. This is a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33391	Mrs. Comic, thank you for your warning, but I don't think I offended anyone, given that the statement of facts is not subject to, no matter how painful it is, the warnings you make.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33392	People's MP, I have not given you a warning but a warning and it refers to the position of Article 2 of the 100th, and therefore I ask you to address the National Assembly during the time at your disposal, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33393	I won't replicate Mrs. Micic, given what she said, I'm afraid she won't hear me or she won't understand me until the end. This is not a debate about Natasha Micic. This is a policy debate conducted in this assembly. This is a debate about all those who supported what she did in this congregation. This is a debate about all those who have justified from this assembly the theft that Natasa Micic spoke of. She said -- yes, there was a theft in the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. And no matter what it is under Article 28. The Rules of Procedure must make sure that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are applied - why you didn't do it or why someone else didn't do it. You are required, Mrs Micic, that when you see that there are more cards than MPs, you ask that these cards be drawn, that you make sure that every vote is valid, that the Constitution and the laws are respected in this assembly, that you implement the Rules of Procedure. You are the most responsible for this, and you are not the first among the equal, because you have more rights in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure than we do, and especially if you usurp them, and then you have the most. You're required and you're here to justify stealing. You justify stealing in the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Even if you've worked perfectly so far, you're covering up a crime. You're an accomplice to a felony. You are the most responsible for the crimes committed in this congregation. Whoever's covering up thieves and covering up criminals is nothing but their pillow, not to say accomplice, not to say the same as they do. That's exactly what you were after stealing votes from this congregation. You said we didn't steal mandates. So who replaced us in this Serbian Parliament when you kicked us out last year; who sat in these benches instead of us if you didn't steal the mandates and didn't make the decision; who brought us back here but the Constitutional Court; how come you didn't steal the mandates, who are you lying to? You think you can fake Serbian citizens by acting? You can't. The truth can't escape. You were talking about you being personally defeated for not defeating the forces they lost in the 24 September election. Why didn't you beat them? Because you wanted to beat them with their means, their weapons. Well, you can't beat thieves with thiefery, you can't beat criminals with crime, you can't beat lawlessness, you can't beat extra-institutional centres by making your own and whose exhibit you can't be, you can't. The lawlessness is won by institutions, thieving is won by the fight against thieving, not by the justice of thieves in the Serbian Parliament. That's how lawlessness and thieving are won. You can't fight them by their means, you've done it and you've become the same as them, the same as the ones you think you beat them. You inherited them, you inherited their funds, you entered their flows and money and everything they did, and that's why the citizens can't wait to see your back. The Democratic Party of Serbia has collected 300,000 signatures in seven days for the replacement of the corrupt government of the Republic of Serbia, but we will discuss this later. You have contributed to the name of Serbia's parliament in the media and among our citizens - circus, market, public and other houses. And who is the most responsible, who has led this parliament for two years and whose majority has manipulated this parliament for two years. Who took the mandates? The parliamentary majority was taking over the mandates. Who stole from the polls? The parliamentary majority stole at the polls. During whose term of office was voted from Bodrum, China and other places, who tolerated it in this assembly, did others tolerate it, or did you, while you were giving us warnings sitting behind me? You've tolerated it. To each of our remarks on the violation of the Constitution, the law and the procedure, we received one warning, and thus you did not help the citizens of Serbia, you did not help build institutions in Serbia. This has helped informal mafia power centres in Serbia that rule this assembly, and therefore your party president said that some financial powers in Serbia have more MPs in this assembly than the DSS and DSS have. Come on and challenge that fact in this assembly. Whoever rules this congregation, whether rules, procedures, or financial powers rule. What have you done from the Assembly, is this the institution we have fought for, that you are removing from the debate the motion to vote for mistrust, is this the institution we fought for, to deny the right of the minority to discuss some important issues? No, and that's why you're not being talked about here, Mrs. Micic, this is about the policy most systematically implemented in this assembly. My colleagues warn me -- it's not the majority anymore; of course it's not the majority, and today's debate has shown that you no longer have a majority in this assembly. And to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on the return of the mandate, minus four MPs who would return to the opposition benches, you lose that majority. Return the mandates to Slobodan Vuksanovic and his MPs, return the mandates to some other parties in this assembly, you do not have a majority right now. Without these mandates, you could buy yourself out of this congregation. You'll buy yourself this way. Extraordinary elections are inevitable and you can't get away from them. They are citizens, which you sometimes mention with disdain, who will give final judgment about what is happening in the Serbian Parliament and what is doing, and how you humiliate them all, and how you have played everything they fought for on October 5th. When you speak of October 5th, I fear that he lived only the day of October 5th, and the next day the same are you sitting in the company of financial, media, mob powers who cheer and dress with this assembly, in the words of no one else but your president. I did not say that some very wealthy people in Serbia have more MPs than certain parties in Serbia. That's what the president of your party said. This should not be disputed, you can dispute your president, but the public does not dispute, because the public sees and feels that in Serbia institutions do not exist. You usurped the position of Serbian President. The Constitutional Court annulled the Law on the selection of MPs by which you usurped the position of Serbian President. When we said you were a usurper, you said you weren't. When the Constitutional Court annulled that provision, you usurped the position of president of Serbia, you walked there early in the afternoon, and this afternoon, because you controlled yourself, manipulated both this assembly and the citizens of Serbia. What about the Broadcasting Council? And here you are aware that there have been violations of the procedure and again your party has repented there that you voted for Radenovic, and then you asked not to vote for Radenovic, so you have knowingly violated the procedure and unlawfully supported the proposal; and there you have agreed to steal and abuse, and that is enough to be replaced, you need nothing more. What happened to the direct TV transmission? Let's get back to it. You violated the December 1997 Assembly's decision on direct TV transmission. You didn't ask anyone, you only got them under blackmail. Is that how decisions, rules, procedures are respected? Mrs. Micic, we were partners, but you cannot share responsibility with irresponsible people, with those who respect the laws to the extent that you would violate them, you cannot build a legal and democratic state. The DSS will vote for your resolution and by its own conscience because it sees what you've done with the Assembly. The Serbian citizens' assembly is called a circus, a market, public and other houses, the MPs are only referred to as the subject of trade and the Assembly is referred to as the only place where privatisation, privatisation of mandates and trade in mandates has been brought to life. You did it from this congregation. When you talk about protecting citizens' rights and property, why didn't you pass a law on denationalisation? Let's correct the old injustices. Why were you against the decision today to ban the sale of nationalized assets? Why were you? Well, if that's how you protected the property, if that's how you protected the rights of citizens, if that's how you thought you were building a democratic state and parliament, by building on kidnapped property... (President: Are you using for the next 10 minutes? _Other Organiser By not correcting the old wrongs. That's not how the state is built, that's not how legal democratic institutions are built, and that's why the DSS sees you as an integral to one policy in this assembly, and here we're not talking about this policy, or you personally, we're talking about you as an exponent of the extra-institutional centers of power, media, criminal, financial power centers that are plowing at this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33394	The word has a vice president, a replica, as president of a parliamentary group? Right to the replica, based on the mention of the party. People's MP (receives to the MP Vukosav Tomasevic), will you be kind enough to take your place in the bench and listen to what you have failed to listen to in the opening of this agenda. A parliamentary group has been formed and the president of the parliamentary group has the right to replication based on mentioning. I give you a warning about the behavior you show in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33395	I'll remind you one more time, so there won't be any confusion in the future. You probably slept through the start of the afternoon session. A parliamentary group of the Civil Union of Serbia has been formed and I am the president of the parliamentary group. Why aren't you in DOS? We are DOS. If I didn't answer and turn the Assembly into a debate club, which is obviously the opposition's intention, I would point to another obvious intention. In the absolute lack of arguments for the motion to resolve the President of the Assembly, the speaker continues, for who knows which time, to be used for the daily-political promotion. That's not right. The Civilian Union is ready to try and reasonally discuss your proposal and this has never been disputed for the Civil League. We will try to keep all the weights and reasons that you have stated, and in your statements about this speaker and in the explanation that you sent us, we have reasonedly denied and we show you two things: that there is no objective reason for the replacement of the President of the Assembly; secondly, that it was not really your intention. Exactly what my predecessor was saying shows that the intention is not to discuss the resolution of the President of the Assembly, because there is no objective reason for that. The intention is to continue the destruction of parliament, to do what is not the work of parliament. I think Mr. Michael has overlooked this agenda point. We are discussing a proposal for the resolution of the President of the Assembly, not a proposal for a resolution of the assembly majority. I know it's your wish, but it's not possible. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33396	People's MP, this was a replica. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33397	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to be able to participate in this kind of debate. Believe that this is just quality more for our country's political life, certainly not some kind of problem or drama. Some issues have been raised that are realistic and are not the place to discuss the issue of trust to the president of parliament, but I think these issues must be answered, simply so as not to get the impression that the answer does not exist. As Deputy Prime Minister here, I want to convey the message of my colleagues, who in the initiative that is being launched today, as well as in the initiative that we are going to discuss next week, see nothing more than, in fact, a unique attempt to reverse the order of political events that were triggered by the democratic changes on 5 October 2000. This is not about the institution of the President of the Republic, it is not about the policy of the President of Parliament, nor about the institution of the President of Parliament, it is not about the Republic government and the role that the government played, but about the division of actors and observers of events that took place in Serbia over the past two and a half years and that are reaching the final stage. Today, the only question we need to talk about here is not because we don't know each other's answer, but because we have a duty to remind our society that it has to live its own life, to discuss one topic: whether those who are today the critics of DOS politics are people who criticise this policy because they want to implement the DOS programme or who are critics of our coalition's policies who were defeated on October 5, 2000, because Serbia wanted freedom, and those who have become unable to bring this freedom to it, because freedom is concrete, not philosophical measure. There are really heavy accusations here, not as hard for us as personalities, but for this society. I think we need to respect some facts, that we cannot talk with so much rudeness about the first woman president of the Serbian parliament in the tragic two hundred-year history of Serbian parliamentaryism, that at least we can be so polite that we can raise the level of this criticism to the political one from that personal one, which comes down to the criteria of skirt or acuity. Those who criticise Parliament's readiness today actually express their own cowardice, because, in private, they themselves have been like-minded and co-workers for a long time, or at least observers, and not an obstacle to the policy path that we have created together. Since 5 October 2000, our obligation is to change this country and our only goal must be a quick and effective change, with respect for democratic principles. Unfortunately, democracy does not reside in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the legal frameworks that we inherited on 5 October 2000. Those who are hiding behind Milosevic's constitution and its laws are actually trying to keep Serbia in that format. That is why the conflict that has occurred in this country is a conflict that must be cleared not by some new parliamentary majority that will be formed in this assembly, but by a question that will be referred to Serbian citizens: Serbia, how you want to look; do you want to change; do you want a new railway law; railways, will you stop the railways in Serbia again tomorrow because you feel bad; do we want to start all those businesses that have been bankrupt for ten years because we don't have a bankruptcy law? Today, the parliamentary majority in this assembly has shown that this is not what they want, and therefore there is no quality needed in this assembly to change Serbia anymore. That quality, fortunately, exists in this country. That is why one positive message leaving this assembly today is the message that the President of Parliament told you -- most of Serbia is not the political majority who thinks of the temporary parliamentary majority that exists here in this assembly, which is formed precisely on those principles that are unacceptable to us. Have an MP leave the opposition and say that at any time and in any situation, he has been paid by the parliamentary majority who has managed this country for two and a half years for a decision. Any MP. We will not change Serbia on these principles, but we will also oppose the political sponsors of the policy of war crimes that is being punished today in this country, the financial sponsors, those who have failed to get what they had in the previous and what some have promised to become tomorrow's power. That's what we'll talk about during the debate on government work. About bankers and failed bankers, about telecommunications tycoons and their ambitions, about the financial lobbys and power centres that exist, about the crime that is always a general place in Serbia, precisely because of those who prevent us from accounting against this crime. For six months, the Law on the fight against organised crime has been a victim of the incompetence of the parliamentary majority that could not be formed without the support of the party of the then SRJ president. Serbia lost the first democratic prime minister precisely because police had no instruments to fight organised crime. Among other things, the great neurosis that exists at this time in our public life is the consequence of the truth that will be learned through a judicial process that is expected during this fall. Among other things, because of this right to the truth, we are obliged to say a very simple sentence and send a clear message -- no rotten compromises, no calculations, no search for fictitious parliamentary majority. If the majority needs it, we will look for it in Serbia and we will get it from it because we are honest, determined, energetic and courageous. To be clear, all of this has its high price and needs to be talked about. I just warned some of them. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have prevented the placing on the agenda of the law on value added tax. We've prevented the placing on the agenda of the railway law, the energy law, the bankruptcy law. This prevented and suspended the last phase of reforms of the economic system in Serbia, which is based on the restructuring of major economic systems. We will answer to the citizens of Serbia tomorrow, which is the price of it. What we can say today is a price that is related to processes that don't happen twice, that run and give us a chance, and if we don't take that chance, we don't have the right to a new start. This society has fallen asleep many times before. Among other things, that's why it's so tragic. Those who decided to highlight the issue of parliamentary elections as their first priority this fall have taken the right to this society to focus all its energy on the European integration process. That is our question, not the question of Brussels or the European Union. For 200 years, this country has had no response in political leadership, which would be able to adapt the interests of this society to the interests of the modern world. That's what happened here today. We suspended the political system in some of its segments, but responsibility is common. The justifications for such a thing are not necessary, but it is more than clear that the issue of the dysfunction of the institution of the President of the Republic is the issue of the incompetence of the political system, not the issue of the individual. Those who wanted to be presidents of all citizens had to understand that the path to this goal led to obtaining the support of these citizens, not just one party. Those who want to be citizens tomorrow must understand that the policy of compromise and gathering is respect as broadly as possible, a policy that leads to success. That is why today we are discussing the government and parliament, essentially the policy that is being conducted in this society, in order to prevent those processes that are definitely changing Serbia. In modern Serbia, the policy that has marked the last decade of the JJ century has nothing to look for, but also those who consider themselves protagonists of that policy. In modern Serbia, politicians whose reference is ignorance and ignorance have nothing to look for, because citizens want to be guided by those who know what they are doing and who are informed of what is happening in the country. In the end, it's a matter of responsibility. We, as the ruling coalition, shared responsibility with political structures in society, but also with other systems where one society rests. We shared responsibility with the courts and with the judiciary, but two and a half years later, we didn't get any answers to all the questions we've been asking for two and a half years. That is why in these days ahead of us we must launch a new "Sablja" in which the truth will be announced, to discover the interests that destroy the democratic order in Serbia, not us as protagonists of that order, because we as individuals are not important. There is no individual that is more important in itself than the job that needs to be done - neither the Prime Minister, nor the Deputy Prime Minister, nor the President of Parliament, any individual is more important than a chance that must not be missed. That chance cannot be used if there is no politically needed majority among us for such a thing. She's gone, and it's open to say she's gone, among other things, because we don't agree to measure something like that at a price, at a political price or through a currency. So we haven't worked for two and a half years, we're not even the last ten, when Milosevic couldn't buy us, neither will we agree to pay anyone else. It would be very important to hear what are the centers of power that govern this society, because we are more than confident that they are not managing the part of the society that we represent. For a year, a campaign to criminalise political opponents in Serbia was under way, only because there was no rational argument that could slow them down. The Republic government, its president, has been criminalized by killing the president, but Serbia has not supported it and will not support this either. In this assembly, October 5th is still going on. Maybe it lasted in other places one day, maybe some didn't see it. I'm sure some of them haven't seen him. They were spoken of by Zoran Djindjic in the Square of the Republic of September last year, when he called them by the only name they could call "drums". We pulled them out of the basement to get you to power, you weren't people who took responsibility in any way and, believe me, we look forward to the elections in Serbia if it depends on the Democratic Party. If it depends on the Democratic Party and the coalition that has conducted the reform in this country for two and a half years, the elections will be democratically in the democratic environment and surely these elections will be a success for this society, not a defeat and a chance to return to the old, because those who are not with us today are in that position that they were not able to be with us or do the job that has to be done in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33398	The basis for the replica. The president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, not mentioned in a negative context. The former president was not mentioned in a negative context. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the People, Deyan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33399	Mrs. Comic, you hurt the Rules of Procedure by not giving me the right to the replica, although Mr. Jovanovic mentioned the president of Yugoslavia and meant the president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Dr. Vojislav Kostunica. That is why I believe that I have the right to reply, especially because I am pleased by Mr Jovanovic's willingness to call the elections; I urge you to look for the majority of reforms in Serbia in the elections and call the elections. That's all we ask of you. Nothing else. Call them today, if you're not afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33400	Members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you to stick to the contents of the contents of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33401	I'm done. Call the election, ask for support.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33402	People's MP, I give you a warning for disrespecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, MPs, saying that disrespect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is one reason to qualify as a poor work of the chairman, that you do not take the right to violate that Rules of Procedure and that you expect that the chairman who heard the remarks will remain without warning. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The former Yugoslav president was mentioned in a speech, not mentioned in an offensive manner. You have a warning for disrespect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do you want the Administrative Committee to declare that? The Management Board will be given a statement at a session where there are already points of violation of the Rules of Procedure. As a promoter, Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic, SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33403	Ladies and gentlemen, may we remind you, since the president of the National Assembly did not warn you, that he probably spoke on the agenda of a group of MPs for the resolution of the president of the Assembly, which is because the predecessor, I think of Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, as part of that second item of the agenda; we will talk about this only when the government is on the agenda and voting non-trust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He mentioned some power centers that run this country, I guess, referring to the American embassy, because it's obvious that it's operating this country right now. He brought out one of the floscules that reads, "Serb, what do you want to look like?" That was euphorically asked by Mr. Jovanovic. It's probably a new DOS slogan for the next election. Given that he was talking about the general political situation, and reform and economic policy in the country, I will give myself the right to him and the public of Serbia, and also to introduce you to some figures. This year's decline in social product, estimated by SRS experts, is inevitable. This year, a 5% increase is planned. It's about two negative tendencies. First, the government focused on a false assessment of the height of the gross social product and based all the tax and other economic variables on it. The budget and economic and fiscal policy memorandum for the financial year 2003 and for the next two years, which the DOS majority adopted in this assembly, predicted that the gross domestic product in 2001 would be realistically increased by 5.5% and 4% in 2002. Instead of the planned growth this year, we're going to have the fall we expected. It's about an unsustainable drop in industrial production. We had, however, droughts, but all other failures related to economic policy measures in agriculture. Industrial production in Serbia, after months of collapse, has fallen by 5.5% again, much more than the most cautious economic analysts expected. For the first seven months, industrial production has dropped by 3.5%, and it is now certain that this decline continues and that industrial production will be less than last year. Our analysis predicted these tendencies, we warned the government, but for nothing. Everyone else is deaf to it. Agriculture records a decline in production unrecorded in Serbia's recent history. This has been influenced by the catastrophic economic policy in agriculture and the retrieval of the village; the late payment of ransoms, and at low and unrealistic prices; disorganization is also present in the way of handing over agricultural products, and other failures by the government and the restoring ministry are on the scene. According to some estimates, the drop in agricultural production will be between 10% and 15% this year. The external trade deficit for the past 30 months has reached $9.215 billion, with a tendency to increase. It is estimated to be around four billion and 45 million for this year, and our experts estimate this year's foreign trade deficit will be higher, as high as five billion dollars. The consequences are catastrophic, because they accelerate the process of self-destruction. It's more than clear that the non-critical reduction in the average customs rate to 9.4% shows all its offences. Since Cedomir Jovanovic and the government have abolished all extra-tariff protection, we are expected to see a further increase in deficits. I want to remind you, the U.S. has a huge arsenal of extracurricular protection measures. At the end of August, our duty reached $13.5 billion, debt slavery, and the debt crisis is already largely in office. The SRS, ladies and gentlemen, is a permanent warning. Serbia did not pay off external debt neatly this year. Why? Somebody answer that. Unemployment, according to the June-based data, has reached 970,000 since the beginning of the year, with a monthly job of around 25,150 people. Then, Serbia is flooded with unemployed working citizens. Who can believe, ladies and gentlemen, only according to official data is 32.4% of citizens looking for a job. Employees are receiving scary low wages, and in no case are around 250,000 employees a month and this charity is not available. The structure of endangered, unrespected, unrespected, rejected, unnecessary is born, and these are teachers, doctors, people with knowledge, peasants, pensioners, the entire army, youth, children, socially unsettled, students, students, disabled, and others. The new power is "gifty" because it imposes a transitional misery on the people, the mystification of survival of such a low level that could not even be imagined, a mass fear of the uncertainty of this life and an even worse future. There are 1,282,000 employees working on average three and a half hours a day, of them 195,000 in July did not receive salaries; about 34,000 companies should go bankrupt, and they employ about 500,000 people; over 70% of the population lives in poverty, less than two dollars a day. Vlahovic said, somewhere in September 2003, 850 companies have been privatised so far. Which one? Why them and why at that very price? Who's behind them? The latest data on privatised enterprises clearly show the meaning of the current privatisation - so-called. Foreign partners have been replaced by auction sales to the domestic unclear structure of money, and these are the criminals Mr. Jovanovic spoke of, with a very current aid of a new phase, which we can call a brokerage and stock fraud. Privatisation is full of inequitable and insufferable deficit budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, threat yes5. October only starts in the National Assembly can mean one thing to us: tomorrow we can expect desert pipes in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33404	People's MPs, I'll check with the Secretary of the Assembly and see if you've got the text of the consolidated agenda. This assembly will discuss the government's trust twice. Please save the data you have, precious, for point 2. Proposal for a vote of mistrust to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted the SRS and point 3. A motion to vote for no confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the DSS. You are not interrupted during the presentation, but for the future, I ask that all of this be focused on these two points of the agenda, where the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be discussed. There's no reason, I'm just letting you know on the basis of Article 84(2), because I don't know if you've been cleared of your agenda. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33405	We are discussing this proposal tonight for the resolution of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is not there. Why? Because several minutes ago, as well as the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, she gave a political speech intended for the obvious public, without intending to enter into the essence of this debate and try to explain what is not possible to explain, which is her behaviour, her way of working, her way of applying the Rules of Procedure, her understanding of the law, her understanding of the functioning of the Assembly, her relationship with the MPs, and especially the position of the first among the equals. Too bad one of them or both isn't there, because they should understand that today on 16 October 2003, three years ago as speakers, DOS leaders executed a coup, set fire to RTS, the Federal Assembly, robbed the Belgrade SPS City Committee, with crisis headquarters, into businesses. They're talking politics, it's this policy, they've created a media hack against people, criminal and other reports have been clapping, about 40,000 people are out of a job. They forget they said -- they'll be bored living in Serbia, forgetting they said -- Serbia will be with a smile on its lips. There was talk of respect for the law, the Constitution, the institutions, the law, the justice, everything that sounds good when it's spoken. They forget that these three years DOS had an absolute majority, 176 MPs at first, and then less due to DOS relations. Has anyone been defending DOS from submitting any draft laws? It's not. We heard the story of the railroad. Crocodile tears. A year and a half ago, that law was made. Now all of a sudden Serbia is going down, which the law doesn't have. It should not be forgotten, and they have tried to explain to us that they have done all this for Serbia's sake, etc. Forgetting that it's been three years. And this item of the agenda, like the other two, is scheduled by her side, not by the opposition. DOS claimed there would be no problem getting the dots off the agenda. DOS claimed there was no problem with the congregation's majority at all. The DOS claimed that these issues would neither be discussed until yesterday, and yesterday happened the other day, and then stories about other points of the agenda, etc. The problem is that both the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Deputy Prime Minister must understand that the account for the disastrous policy that has been led over the past three years has to be submitted, today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, anyway. Free stories of past times, of bad laws, of non-compliance with the constitution, of inheritance etc. 176 MPs allowed DOS absolutely to do whatever it wants in this assembly. They have not done so, and they have to bear the consequences, as the government will suffer the consequences of what it did as an executive body, but we will discuss it further. Today, we have a request for the resolution of Natasa Micic, as president of the National Assembly. I must say that the SPS MPs also signed this initiative, because we think Mrs. Micic is doing this job badly. We felt that she was doing the job of vice president of the National Assembly. We don't think she's up to the job that the president of the National Assembly is wearing, and that's the first job amongst the equals. If you paid attention to what was said by her, there were words about some high goals - I drew etc. The president of the National Assembly has a policy to implement the Assembly, respect for the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure. Those high goals, they can do it in the Civil League, if they can do something about how many there are. This is about respecting the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on how the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is run. This job on her side wasn't done very well. That's the basic reason why we signed that initiative. It is, in addition to responsibility, because it is also being discussed about its work, it is also about politics, for the simple reason that she spoke most from this pay phone about DOS policy, not the other MPs, but her. There was always talk of DOS policy. I will now try to explain why the SPS MPs also supported this initiative and why they believe that Mrs Micic should be resolved, i.e. that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should elect a new president. All the time doing the jobs of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, she acted as a spokeswoman, a follower, a follower of one policy, which is DOS policy. In this paper she showed extreme bias, volunteerism, classical volunteerism in interpreting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the law, selectivity in expressing the measures she has as president of the National Assembly. Of course, only the MPs of the opposition were on the agenda, MPs of the congregation's majority were protected as those of rare species and the tragedy of this assembly was that the sentences were pronounced when the assembly majority spoke - punish him, punish him, not when it would be normal, when the Rules of Procedure was injured, when a political insatiable person was shown another thought. She is not up to doing this job as president of the National Assembly because she always deceives the public about how the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works. Remember the story about the mandate, the voting papers, the computer copies, and I'll do that in more detail later. She showed absolute intricacies in interpreting not only the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but also the laws of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... You've heard a line here - some have objected to me that I've called the election too soon or too late. It's not too soon or too late. Elections shall be discussed under the law, not when they correspond to DOS or when they do not correspond to DOS. The elections are discussed when the law prescribes it, not when it corresponds to one political option and where the political option needs to be rewarded. Since she was president of the National Assembly, she was also involved in the work of the U.S. The president of the Republic of Serbia, I must say, has also abused this job because it has counter-constitutionally imposed a state of emergency in Serbia, especially in certain provisions which were the subject of the Constitutional Court interpretation. First of all, I'm thinking about that provision, remember, it wasn't long ago when the emergency regulation allowed people to be closed for 30 days without the court's decision. It was done by a person who was initiator of the responsibility for human rights violations. It can't be more tragic. She's making a proposal. And that's one of the reasons why Mrs. Micic shouldn't be doing this job, because she's also the initiator of the lustration law, of responsibility for human rights violations. I must say, as president of the National Assembly, she has not shown a single measure of tolerance to fellow Members. I'm not talking about opposition, I'm talking about the congregation majority. We have a respected Professor Simonovic. You know how she treated him. The measure of tolerance is to listen, treat everyone with respect and respect, and if the MP does not respect the Rules of Procedure he should be warned. I must say that we were not in a position to work in other, normal parliaments, to invite the National Assembly presidents of parliamentary groups to consult, to ask what would be on the agenda, and then to make the agenda available to the Assembly. No, things were first and only arranged in DOS, so only then were they the subject of the National Assembly. If there was an initiative, it was rerouted to cover the DOS deal. Just remember the letters sent to DOS to support the election. I guess the elections are being debated for all Serbia, for all citizens, not DOS to support the elections. If DOS should support the elections, then these others are simply not someone who should participate in political life, but let DOS itself finish and Serbia will surely win. The greatest sin, what we find unforgivable and why we think she can't do the job... (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes? Yes. What we believe is that it cannot carry out the work of the National Assembly president, which was also the subject of criminal charges by the Socialist Party of Serbia, is the responsibility of Ms Micic in what took place in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during two votes: the law on lustration or the famous responsibility for human rights violations and the election of governors and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. In Article 115. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the position of the 6th very decadely states that the computer copy of each vote shall be submitted to the parliamentary groups at their request, the information service, etc. In May last year, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia denied the right for MPs to receive a ballot from the vote. Since then, that list can only be obtained if it is requested by the president of the parliamentary group and the secretary of course asks the president, whether the president approves or not. After the vote on the lustration law, we officially asked for a voting list. We didn't get it. Our search took three months. One logical question arises -- what is the motive that in three months we can't get a voting list? When we got the listing very simply by looking into that listing, and we know who it was, we found that there were abuses of cards or thefts in the vote and in that law. You can imagine, the law of responsibility for human rights violations, lustrations, and stolen when voted! In fact, we found out that there were several MPs here, Mr. Ivkovic, who were not there that day. They weren't there that day, and they took part in the vote. We know, we have a witness, it's nothing to argue with. The two were, the others weren't, but their cards were used. Then we have a paradoxical situation for one to sit next to Ivan Andric, Ceda Jovanovic, Siniša Mitrovica, and then, in a magical way, to move to a colleague from New Democracy or as they are now called. One sits in the fourth row, so when the vote is voted in favour of the law, and then in the 16th or 19th row, it's just counting on him to vote. One sits in the seventh row between Nischli, six of them, and he in the middle, and they all vote for the same. Similarly, it happened in a vote on the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia and members of the Council. I mentioned today that Mrs. Neda Arneric is a special story. That vote from abroad is not a newspaper for DOS. We had Thessaloniki, and now we have Turkey. It was and it was a feature of the work of the National Assembly, but we also had an example of our colleagues, Rafaelovic, who today said what he said. I won't say it again. When we received the listing, which was literally the day that Mrs. Micic was a guest of Serbia's Radio-Television on "Face-to-Face", we found that the abuse cards of the two of our MPs were used. So it's a classic theft during the vote. Two of our MPs' cards have been misused. They were included in the quorum, and they weren't there. We sent all this information to the D.A. We filed a criminal report and don't think this thing's gonna end with it. Actually, there's been an attempt today to put things to bed by the record. It won't work. Four crimes were committed during these votes, and objectively it will be the case of the judiciary. This shows how the congregation works and the first among the equals. Today a sentence was used on her part - he knew or had to know. The president of the National Assembly knew or had to know what was going on in the National Assembly, especially when there was no quorum. There was no quorum that day and it is clear that the cards of the two SPS deputies were misused. That day four crimes were committed - abuse of official office, unconscious service work, falsification of official documents, and help cover up the crime. The judicial authorities will do their job, and we will see how this thing goes, but in any case these examples show how the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is experienced. So anything that the DOS needs can absolutely end and there's no problem. If it's anything else, then of course it's not. I must say that Mrs Micic, as president of the National Assembly, also misused the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government because she voluntarily, volunteeredly interpreted the provisions and set out additional local elections, i.e. elections for the councils of municipalities as appropriate to her. An eclectic negative case is Pocket. The first elections were scheduled and unfortunately due to the state of emergency they were delayed, and later of course she did not want the elections to be re-scheduled, in other municipalities she did, and then it was taken as a formal occasion for the introduction of a forced administration (and for the second time) in the Municipality of Priboj. Of course, the DOS did not go as expected, and it simply broke down, but it shows that the president of the National Assembly abuses the powers it has. I have to mention another very negative way of acting as president of the National Assembly, which is complicity in the abuses that were here about the term of office. Now there's talk of decisions of the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court of this, and the Constitutional Court of that. We MPs of the SPS since April 2002, and the Constitutional Court's decision was made on 28 May 2003, asked to return the mandates that belong to us under the law. The seven mandates of the Socialist Party of Serbia were to be our property, because we excluded those former members because of the opposition to the SPS policy and programme. Ms. Micic was absolutely complicit in forming here a famous magical parliamentary group of National Socialists and then providing for a mandate in the Federal Assembly, etc. What's this MP's group for, we've seen. It's a back-up DOS party, but the bottom line is that there was a classic abuse of the law over the mandate. There's something else I have to mention about the term of office. Remember that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was handed down 14 or 15 resignations from DOS MPs, black and white, written - I resign. These MPs showed up at one point, not for one moment but for two months, voted for nothing, so that only after a few months the DOS would remember, and of course the president of the National Assembly, whose obligation to respect the law and apply the Rules of Procedure, was to be someone who first objected to it and prevented the illegal work of the Assembly. Not to mention yesterday's session and that announcement. This morning I was talking about this, a classic manipulation. You didn't have the guts to come down here. In view of all of this, and there will be other things that we will taxively mention, related to the work of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia think that it simply does not do the job in the way it should, not respect the Constitution, the laws, the Rules of Procedure and the simple MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should, for all reasons, deny her confidence that the work continues.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33406	Right on line, MP Branislav Ivkovic. The basis for the replica, mentioning ownership of the mandates of parliamentary groups and parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, socialists in Serbia should be happy today. They should be happy (but my father is from Bijeljina, so I have it happy and happy) because DOS showed his true face. We have been saying since October 5th that DOS is a single-use coalition, that there are also Republicans, and monarchists, and mundialists and nationalists. Now that DOS is showing its true face and when it is being divided into DOS, and it is fierce, which tells Serbian citizens a lot about DOS itself, one very good Socialist has no other job, but to touch other Socialists. You know, that's very good, because socialists can now see the division among the Socialists, and that of those sterile and incompetent politicians, the senior officials who spent all the years of working hours in a party, who don't have a day's work to work and to support their family, and those who have learned to work, to support their family honestly from their work and to care that they create a state for all Serbian children, as they want for their children. Mr. Zarko Obradovic, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia is clear, says the parliamentary mandates belong to the MPs, this decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia in about 80% of the states and Europe lives, and we respected that solution. It is fortunate for Serbian citizens that this solution exists, because this solution will create normal parties without authoritarian and centralised authority, as it is present in some monolithic parties in which when you send a letter to one address, three addresses have no idea that the letter came to the party. Therefore, the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group was formed on the basis of a decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, as the Serbian Constitutional Court has decided that the parliamentary mandates belong to the committees. As for taking care of others, you know, in Serbia, it's a wonderful quality for Serbian citizens to take care of others, and when a politician starts taking care of politicians, that's not good. Here, last night Mr. Martian lied and took care of us. Here, today's vote showed how much he's a liar. Mr. Zarko Obradovic takes care of the people's socialists, as they voted on the lustration law. The Socialist People's Party filed a lawsuit against the N.E. persons, but the Socialist People's Party does not need to seek its political career by examining who was sitting where he was sitting, who was putting his cards, making marketing to himself, and having filed a lawsuit against one person, because the Socialist People's Party had the strength and knowledge to do its electoral programme and it is working to affirm its electoral programme and to get close to the citizens of Serbia, not to count infertilely who was sitting.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33408	The word is made by MP Dragan Marsican, a replica based on insults and violations of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I warn MP Branislav Ivkovic in a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33409	Unlike Mr. Ivkovic, who is known in public as an honest man, I am known as a liar. Did I tell a lie last night when I said an agreement was reached between the Democratic Party and its party on co-ordinated action in the Serbian Parliament will show the next days and the vote by its party on agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33410	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33411	Dear fellow Members of the People, I went out to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure - Article 97(1). Mr. Ivkovic misread it, I did not say that his party helped DOS vote the budget; I did not talk about his party helping Mrs. Micic choose V.D. President; I did not talk about how his party helped to pass the amendment and supplement of the Privatisation Act; I did not talk about how his party helped to vote the Constitutional Charter and follow the law that abolished Yugoslavia; I did not talk about how his party helped to pass the lustration law; I did not talk about it, I was talking about the fact that the Constitutional Court made a decision on 28 May 2003, and we sought our mandates a year earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33412	People's MP, and I must warn you that I must remind you of the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and all members of the opposition to remind you that we are here discussing the trust of Natasa Micic, so I would ask the opposition to return to the topic. National MP Branislav Ivkovic, a replica based on the presentation of MP Zarko Obradovic. I ask MP Dragan Todorovic to sit in the parliamentary bench and follow what is happening in the hall. National MP Zarko Obradovic said he was in violation of the Rules of Procedure. In expressing his injury to the Rules of Procedure, he violated the Rules of Procedure and received a warning about what he said about the speaker. National MP Branislav Ivkovic asked for a replica for a statement, following the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and for you, MP Dragana Todorovic, the same warning to follow the course of the assembly session and not to throw the chairman for the decisions made. Here you are, MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33413	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, those who are seriously involved in this work, and we in the Socialist People's Party have really decided to do it hard, have had the opportunity to read the results of a survey with Serbian citizens and, believe me, Serbian citizens are telling everyone, number one, the key feature for someone who wants to do something in this country is their ability. So, the ability, they're looking for people who know they're working, who know they're pointing to problems, to immediately propose solutions, who know they're forming a real team, and to finish the job. They will not ask for bookworms and concubines who will count as what and where they do. Yes, the Socialist People's Party voted in favour of the Constitutional Charter, because it had the strength to rise from daily politics, such a classic for the opposition, and to see a vision of Serbian citizens of whom 90% want to join the European Union. It is precisely thanks to the Socialist People's Party and its votes (seven here and one in the state community), we are in the Council of Europe today, and the president of one party now takes the money and sits in that Council of Europe, that is his morals and his parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33414	As a proposer? National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, as a proposer. I ask all Members of the People's Parliaments, if you'll excuse the MPs, to closely monitor the course of this session and to remind themselves of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the debate on the agenda of what is the majority's will on the agenda of this session. Once again, let me remind all members of the opposition to return to the topic proposed by the Assembly, which is a debate on the trust of the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Natasa Micic. There you go, MPs and I'm sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33415	Let's get you back to the agenda and get a little bit of evidence done, since it's a request for a resolution of the president of the National Assembly and everything she's done against the law and against the law. I will remind you of the situation and the session of March 18th, 2003, when the distance measure was expressed from the session of the SRS parliamentary group president Tomislav Nikolic, who took the post after you sent our President Vojislav Seselj to The Hague. When giving the distance measure from the session on March 18th for an incident that took place on February 13th, and those measures were provided for in the Rules of Procedure only to maintain order at a session where an incident would happen (so, retroactively, a measure was expressed), the chairman did not specify the basis and a member of the Rules of Procedure under which the distance measure was imposed, and by the decision of the Administrative Committee of 26 March 2003 (and this could, of course, serve on the honour of the Administrative Committee), he was given a fine of 32,000 dinars for his distance from the session. The reasons for the decision of the Administrative Board could indirectly conclude that it was the application of Article 104(2) and Article 108(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which applies for the next 90 days of the meeting, from the day of the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 18 March 2003. The legal non-sension is that, in the light of its decision on punishment, the Administrative Board has arbitraryly interpreted the thoughts and wishes of the chair of the session since 18 March 2003, when it was given the measure. Otherwise, the tasks of the Administrative Board have been laid down by the specific provisions of the Rules of Procedure and do not, of course, give authority to the Administrative Committee to consider, propose and specifically and individually establish something which, under this Rules of Procedure, is the discretionary right of the President of the National Assembly, which it reads and very often abuses. The fact that this was precisely confirmed by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 16 June 2003 asked the Administrative Board, which had no jurisdiction regarding the pronunciation and application of measures, to interpret the way in which the measures were taken, which only indicates that even the president of the National Assembly did not know how he decided and what decision he made. The question now arises why the president of the National Assembly did so on June 16th. Because the session was scheduled for June 19th and because, in all accounts, according to the Rules of Procedure, it was also due to stop the measure of distance from the session and to bring Mr Tomislav Nikolic back to the O.R. Only this famous opinion of the Administrative Committee since 17 June 2003, which was given on the basis of a request from the president of the National Assembly, has it been known that the sentence is still pending and that there are 60 days left of the session (work) until the end of the sentence. When do you think the 60 days of work of the Serbian Parliament will end? Probably there in March next year, which means that Tomislav Nikolic is not as far away as 90 days, as the Rules of Procedure predicts, but on some famous 90 working days, and the president of the National Assembly interprets that the working day is only when the Assembly is in session, not respecting what the Constitution says, that the assembly is meeting in two regular sessions during the year and that first starts on 1 March and starts three months and the next starts on October 1st and lasts three months, which means that it is an absolute violation of constitutional provisions, when it is specifically the Tomislav Nikolic case. Of course, the National Assembly shall also meet in an extraordinary session, at the request of at least one third of the total number of Members of Parliaments or at the request of the Government, with an advanced agenda. Since it was excluded on 18 March 2003, the regular meeting of the National Assembly was held from 18 March 2003 to 31 May 2003 and it expired 75 days, and at extraordinary meetings, those 90 days ended at the June 19th sessions. Of course, the president of the Assembly is ordering security, i.e. the police in the Assembly, to prevent Tomislav Nikolic from attending meetings of the National Assembly on 24 June, 25 June, 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 22 July, as well as on 27 August and 14 October and 16 October this year. Of course, the conclusion is clear. It is an abuse of the official position and the authority of the president of the National Assembly, which is why, as an accomplice, the Administrative Board took part in this, and Tomislav Nikolic, since he could not prove his justice here in parliament and since he was prevented from doing his job for which the people chose him, is only left to address the local municipal court, which, according to his suit, will have to decide. What a decision it will be, the public will be introduced, the president of the Assembly as well as all those involved, above all I mean the Administrative Committee. In order to prove all that we have presented in the exhibition on behalf of a group of MPs as evidence, I will state the Second Session of the First Regular Session, when Natasa Micic issued a warning to Mr Nikolic about the time-out. So little tolerance, and the Rules of Procedure only left us 27 minutes, as a parliamentary group, to talk about the proposals of the law that life means to this people and to the state. Say, now you have the Labour Act and you only have 27 minutes for us 23 MPs to say something. You exceed 30 seconds, and even a minute or two, and that's not something that should be sanctioned, and the president of the National Assembly says, "Mr. Nikolic, I'm giving you a warning about time over time." It was still that time of DOS passion, when the president of the assembly thought he could do whatever he wanted. And today here, speaking to the MPs, responding to my exposés, she said she was sorry and that she could have been even stricter than she was. At a session on 25 April 2001, Mr Kragovic, speaking of the Labour Relations Act, says - "... but this law favours that foreign partner or so on. a strategic partner, as you say, and not a working class that is responsible for the existence of that firm that has worked for many years and has spent its entire life investing in the development of this company and this company. So there's none of those six billion dollars." He reminds, of course, DOS of the promised international aid. "You put that in your pockets, and now you expect... ". Here, the president of the Assembly interrupts the speaker and says, "Please stick to the topic of the agenda, and the subject is the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law. It's not the law on privatisation, it's not donations, it's amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act." Did Mr Kragovic talk here about the problem of working relations, you will best conclude on your own. After continuing, of course, to make arguments against amending the Labour Relations Act, Natasa Micic: "The second time I warn you to stick to the subject of the agenda and give you a warning, based on Article 101 and the violation of Article 98(1)." It is a flagrant example of the passion of the president of the National Assembly, who cannot possibly be tasked with simply listening to whether the MP will say something that does not contribute to the Dossov majority or government and impose a sanction that can only be criminal and criminal sanctions. You know, fines can only be criminal sanctions. It cannot be an MP whose constitution allows for this speaker to say what he has to say and who releases him from responsibility to be responsible to the National Assembly president and depends on his discretion, whether he was able at that time to understand what the MP wanted to say or not. After a series of DOS MPs were thrown out of MPs' benches, and you'll admit very often, those who went out for this pay phone are not much, and we weren't saving ourselves, we were distracted by MPs who could get very ugly. Instead of being warned by the chairman and president of the Assembly, we often received warnings and countermeasures. Such a situation occurred on April 25th 2001, when Mrs Milka Marinkovic replicated Tomislav Nikolic and, among other things, at the end of her speech, said: "We are Democrats, calm, quiet, but sometimes very and bloodthirsty if necessary. So I'm asking you to ban threats. [[The stenographic notes say, "The fire in the hall."]] We're not at the market, we're at work. This is a responsible job. I think it is high time to break this practice, even to the ladies, who are a bloody struggle to save themselves, their families, their children, and in the extreme line of the citizens of this country, came to this parliament. That's what Mrs. Marinkovic says. I ask that we make this clear and that the MP Tomislav Nikolic be warned about what he called us as Jaftars. What a replica of the Rules of Procedure, all sorts of things." Natasa Micic further: "I am obliged to give an explanation. I really failed to give a warning then, but believe me, I didn't hear it, because the messenger has turned his back, and I half of you don't hear what's said, believe me. I can give you a warning later. "Tomislav Nikolic: "To justify myself. Replica. "Natasa Micic: "You cannot justify yourself, I have not given you my word. You used that. Sit down, I didn't say you'd get your word. According to the Rules of Procedure, First National MP Lazar Marjanski appeared. Here you go. "You know what it's like when Natasha Micic doesn't give someone a word. Tomislav Nikolic: "Do you give me a replica? According to the Rules of Procedure? "Natasa Micic: "Before I give the Rules of Procedure to the People's MP Lazar Marjanski, I hear that we are proposing to vote. So I find that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I have indeed missed the reminder of MP Tomislav Nikolic, but I have not really heard him speak to the MPs. "Tomislav Nikolic: "There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. "Nataša Micic: I'm telling you it has come. Then I suggest we make sure there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. "Tomislav Nikolic is still looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Natasha Micic: "You'll get a word when we're done with this. "Tomislav Nikolic: I get the word when I ask for it. "Natasa Micic warns him to read some members of the Rules of Procedure there and says -- "and I give a warning to MP Tomislav Nikolic, who sent offensive expressions to Milki Marinkovic and her colleagues. "Tomislav Nikolic: "I don't know why you are so rudely and so rigorously violating the Rules of Procedure. Why make most of you vote for what you suggested, even though I know the Rules of Procedure has been broken. The 95th term to which you are calling, paragraph 1 reads - to the MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives the word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, etc." - explains Tomislav Nikolic and says "Mrs. Bloodlock felt threatened, because I, who got the word, had to react to her being thrown out of the bench, and she had no word. When you and your bell can't calm her down, how else can I react, but so she has to come in. Now I choose a word that is not offensive at all, and especially not for a lady, until she's exaggerating the lady and proves to me she's not a lady. I chose a word in Serbian. The word Jaftar refers to a woman who talks a lot without any meaning or anything else. "Natasa Micic: "Mr. Nikolic, I give you a second warning because of the insult you have made to your colleagues again, and to me as chairman. That's a second warning. "That's how it went. Here's two years we've been waiting, waiting. I see Mrs. Micic is leaving the O.R., unable to listen to what we have to say to her. So, there's always a cat on the door. It's all on its own. In politics there is one rule - patient, saved. Take it easy. You're waiting for your moment. The bills are even. There's always some cosmic justice. Today, dear gentlemen, October 16, 2003. One thing's for sure. Time can't stop. Therefore, when you come to this hall the second time, after some extraordinary elections that will come very quickly, keep that in mind, and if by chance, it happens to you maybe once in your life, you'll be in power, you'll be in power, you'll be there, you'll be in a language on a scale, and then you'll be in power, you'll act by the opposition the way you'd like it to treat you when you're in opposition. That's what Dr. Vojislav Seselj told you a hundred times. You think power is greater. You think the government means passion. That's not how it works. You get all that negative energy back and then you shoot slowly, you rip your hair out of your head. You're sorry you haven't done something for yourself in the first few months, waiting for the last year, but it's been running out of power before you expected it. Mr. Milorad Mircic: "It's hard for you to understand this, ma'am. This is hard for you to understand. I've been thinking these days that I'd really like to have your head to rest from all this. "It speaks of something that warned Natasa Micic that he was not in the topic again. Natasa Micic: "Mr. Mircic, I give you a warning because you do not stick to the agenda and because you are insolently expressing yourself. "Milorad Mircic: First, warn those who earn. The point is, I appeal to the legislators while it's time for these corrections to be carried out. They don't mean anything, but to avoid putting an unequal position on the part of the Serbian citizen, there's nothing against changing federal law and being in line with the republican, but it can't be forced. "Nataša Micic: "Mr Mircic, I give you a second reminder under article 101." Why? No one knows. Believe me, we don't even know today, that punishment is 8,000 dinars. Mr Branislav Blazic: "Respected Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, restrictiveness, repression, hajka, persecution, political processes, spreading fear and hatred, is today a picture of democratic Serbia. How come you, gentlemen of the DOS, so much negative energy, that you spread it, and with that negative energy you won't exactly make us, you won't make a step in Serbia's moral and democratic process. (A handsome man warns DOS, back in 2001. Natasha says - please stick to the subject. () What is the topic in this House? Who should we talk to? The roosters? Dogs on the street, strays? We are talking to each other, political opponents (resuming Mr Blazic to explain what he has, of course). What good do workers do when they don't work for 90 days, and when after 90 days, that same employer won't be able to pay back the guaranteed profits? Why so much of this Bolshevik hatred that it all closes down, that we stop, that every production is prevented. I hope that's not the DOS program, or I may be in some sort of delusion, when it comes to democracy, because I've heard here that there are all kinds of Democrats, and here I've heard that there are bloodthirsty Democrats. It's a little incompatible for me." Natasa Micic: "Mr Blažić, on the basis of Article 100, 101, I give you a warning, because even after the warning you did not follow the topic of the agenda." Please, gentlemen, so if you've never taken these stenographic notes, believe me, it wasn't this small business that everything that's been going on over the past two or three years has been going on and getting out of what's curiosity. Imagine, for one president of the Assembly, this much couriness on two hundred and change pages. I understand you're making a mistake. Whoever's doing this and making mistakes, and misjudgement and misunderstanding of the problem, and sometimes the desire to cut someone short in the discussion, and it takes some political point to win. This has become practice, everyday practice, the same thing. Natasa Micic: "Mr Mircic, how about you return to the topic? "Milorad Mircic: Madam Chairman, I really hold on to commenting on any of your incursions or objections, but I would ask you to take some of these bill proposals and read them, so that you too may be in the process of what is being discussed here." Natasa Micic: "Mr Mircic, I give you a warning because, despite the warning, you speak beyond the topic of the agenda." Laugh, gentlemen, laugh, you've been laughing here for three years, but Serbian citizens outside this assembly and across Serbia are crying for everything you've brought them to, and above all, economic policy. Natasa Micic: "Mr. Nikolic... "Tomislav Nikolic: "And what did you want now, please?" Natasa Micic: "I wanted to return you to this Law on Salaries in State Authorities, and your obligation under the Rules of Procedure, under Articles 98 and 99, is to stick to the subject". Don't bother me at all, Mrs. Comic. Bruji all over Serbia, you know, only you haven't heard those steps slowly approaching the Serbian Parliament yet, but 16 are presidential elections. It will be your first finger in your eye, the first victory of Serbian radicals, the snap elections coming, and in the snap elections we will measure the strength. We're not going to the street with you. It doesn't matter how this debate ends. The election is quite certain. It will be this year. We're only admitting the election results. They'll come out, round up the people they believe in, count the votes, see what it looks like. I hope that one of you will come back to this House; 10, 15, 20 of you will be here, and we will remember these situations that we had in the last three years. Natasa Micic: "It is my duty to warn you if you do not stick to the topic". Tomislav Nikolic: "I know this is your obligation, did you warn me. "Natasa Micic: "If I do not warn you, then I am violating the Rules of Procedure, "means I give you a reminder on the basis of article 101 for the violation of article 98 to return to it. "Tomislav Nikolic: "What is my warning? "Nataša Micic: "First". Tomislav Nikolic: "First? All right, you're gonna lose the next election. Will there be others? You'll lose the next election because you can't act like someone who won." Remember this message of Tomislav Nikolic - you will lose the next election because you can't act like someone who won. Watch what message he has sent you. None of you have written it down. None of you have remembered it. Natasa Micic: "I give you a second warning because you do not stick to the topic of the agenda." Tomislav Nikolic: "I just have to warn you, perhaps you don't know it, my dear lady, this is all recorded by cameras, and of course your behaviour remains recorded throughout Serbia and I, wherever I appear on TV... "Now he enters, of course, Natasa Micic and says, "I am now obliged to take away your word, as you continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, and you are told two measures. So, in accordance with Article 102, I take away your word." Tomislav Nikolic: "What have you done? "Nataša Micic: "I took your word. "Tomislav Nikolic: "Here, I keep talking." Tomislav Nikolic remains behind the pay phone, although his word has been taken from him. Natasa Micic: "And this job implies, when your word is taken away, that you should step away from the pay phone. I set a ten-minute break, for reasons, and on the basis of Article 102, which I cannot hold in session, because Mr Nikolic will not step away from the pay phone, and he was obliged. "Of course, then comes security and injured Tomislav Nikolic, who had previously had a car accident and who had a broken collarbone, pulls out of these benches, breaks a chair, additionally hurts him and brings him out of the O.R. It's this parliamentaryism in action. Imagine how severe this breach of the Rules of Procedure was when he had to get out of the O.R. He was so distracted by the work of the Serbian Parliament. Second session of the First Regular Session, 17th day of work, 14th May 2001, Natasa Micic: "The words of Mr Baralić are according to Business. "Rajko Baralić: "I point to Article 95. I ask the National Assembly to declare a violation of article 101, pre-lated position. The MP, Mr Vuksic, said here, said human stupidity is immeasurable and thus offended Minister Milovanovic. I ask you to make the Assembly known about this." Natasa Micic: "Mr. Baralic, I give you a warning because of the insult you have made to the minister. You abused a pay phone to do it, you answered the word in the Rules of Procedure... "
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33416	People's MPs, regardless, we can interpret this as tolerance, but the working hours of the Assembly are up and that's the only reason why I'm interrupting you, because the MPs are obliged to either propose an extension of the working day or the session ends today at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33417	I agree. There's no need to go any further, we've said enough about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-16-0.u33418	I would like to inform the present MPs that the session will continue next week, on Wednesday 22 October at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. According to official records, 40 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units. I ask the MPs who are in the National Assembly building to enter the session hall and participate in the establishment of the quorum, with a reminder that there is a debate on the SRS Parliamentary Group proposal for the resolution of the President of Ms Natasa Micic's National Assembly. I ask the MPs who are in the session room to check their cards, whether they are identified in electronic voting units. The work quorum is required to be determined by all MPs who are on permanent duty in the National Assembly. There is no business, but there is a logical and political obligation to participate in determining the quorum and MPs of the opposition, whose voting will is this item on the agenda. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Juhas Atila, Petar Misic, Kasa Jožef, Nenad Bogdanović, Jakov Stamenkovic and Slobodan Radulović. National MP Miomir Tadic will be late for the morning session. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, the Vice-President, the Prime Minister and the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a RESOURCES OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA Mr. MIĆić (sumption) I remind you that in the search, in addition to the representatives of the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic and National Assembly President Natasa Micic, participants: Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, Zarko Obradović, president of the SPS Group and Cedomir Jovanovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to remind you that the National Assembly has decided that the total debate time for parliamentary groups is 10 hours. Since the previous day of work during the presentation of MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic's MP, due to the expiry of working hours, the session was suspended at 1800 hours, I ask the MP Gordan Pop-Lazic if he wants to continue his presentation, because he has the right to do so because he has been interrupted due to his working time, and none of the MPs have proposed an extension? No, I don't. ) Does any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Verica Radeta.
