ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29858	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, which has only four members, with counterpart Joco Arsic, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 3. We believe that, regardless of the obligations arising from the Constitutional Charter, no law should be passed on the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia in the Republic of Slovenia and that no matter what, one such interested organisation of businessmen, at the level of Serbia-Montenegro, the newly created state, would have its place. The adoption of this law is necessary, it said, in the reasons, to ensure full protection of the assets available to the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, and thus to protect the interests of all economic operators and other members of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. But from what protection? Why isn't there a chamber of commerce left at the level of the new state union? That is why we have proposed that Article 3 be deleted, as it foresees that the Foreign Trade Arbitration, which was established by the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, continues to work as an external trade arbitration of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept this amendment, noting the importance and specificity of the proceedings carried out by this arbitration, where it is necessary to specifically regulate the issue of its position and continuation of work, as well as its continuity, in view of the concluded contracts of our economic operators which provide for the jurisdiction of arbitration. And this is evidence for our efforts, that this member is being deleted and that the chamber at the level of the new community exists in the future, as a better solution, regardless of the adoption of the amendment of the DOS parliamentary group, this member has been amended and that external trade arbitration, which operates at the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, because of the specific position, jurisdiction and authority must continue business in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, with clearly defined relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29859	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Dragor Hiber and Ivan Andric submitted. The government accepts this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs proposes that this amendment be adopted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The government does not accept this amendment. The committee proposes, too, not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? There's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29860	Dear fellow MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 4 and it speaks of when the law should enter into force. This amendment is in line with our intensities that the whole law is suspended, withdrawn from the procedure, as I was saying yesterday in the principle debate, that a correct proposal is being drawn up for the organisation of a chamber at the level of the federal state, the union of Serbia-Montenegro, and that, after that, the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia is suspended. So this amendment goes in the direction of the previous amendments, because if you are looking to delete the first, second and third members, it is normal that Article 4 should also be deleted, because it provides when this law should enter into force. There are no representatives of the government here, there are no authorized promoters. I would once again ask that an effort be made to make sure that, in the direction in which the debate was held yesterday, this law is withdrawn from the procedure, to prepare a joint project of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and thus to do something to bring this economic space together in terms of what we are talking about, that we want, by entering the European Union, to join as a community of the states of Serbia-Montenegro. The unique economic space of this country should be represented through a certain chamber system, i.e. to open up the possibility to bring together the businesses of one and the other Member States. That would be in the shortest explanation of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29861	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search in detail, the proposing representative is not present to give the final word, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – MEETING OF THE MEETING OF THE REPUBLICAL AGENCY You have received a proposal for a candidate to elect the 9th member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, who has been submitted by previously elected members of the Council. I would like to remind you that at the fourth session of the First Regular Session in 2003, held on 11 April, the National Assembly elected eight members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, on the proposal of authorised promoters, and the ninth member should be elected on the proposal of previously elected members of the Council, in accordance with Article 23. The law on broadcasting. List for the selection of the ninth member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, in accordance with Article 24(2). The broadcasting law contains only one candidate. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to hand over the lists of people's MPs which have been declared for the order of words. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. I ask, are the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. We'll wait for the list to be made. The word is made by MP Momcilo Trajkovic. The next reported word is MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29862	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I have reason to say a few sentences today about the candidate for the Broadcasting Council, Mr. Goran Radenovic, because I know him personally. There's been a lot of controversy about his candidacy these days. I believe he can perform such a serious role, a function, as he has results behind him, because acting in Kosovo and Metohija has participated in changes. He is one of the first people to have the courage to be part of democratic and reform processes. It belongs to an honorable family. As proof that he meets the requirements, he filed the proper documents. I must say that I have seen Goran Radenovic in Kosovo and Metohija. I know that, at one point, he had to leave Kosovo and Metohija, as many have left, but he remained tied to Kosovo and Metohija, as well as his family. For this reason, I believe that he meets the basic requirements and that this assembly should support Mr Radenovic to be a member of the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29863	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branislav Blazic, and the next registered speaker is MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29864	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have received a proposal for the ninth member of the Broadcasting Council. Obviously, it's all disputed here, by the Council's promoter, and you don't know exactly how many members there are, because someone says they're eight. Here, in a debate with Bojana Lekic, we have heard that the advice cannot work because two members are controversial and have already announced resignations. So we got a proposal not from that advice but from Pink. Obviously, here Pink TV is something above this assembly and above the Broadcasting Council, it's obvious that their influence is very strong in this country. The second disputed story here is whether these data, given in the name of Goran Radenovic, is true at all. We had a chance to see that his wife had denied living here in Serbia, but was working on In TV in Podgorica, which is not explained here. The support he has received here refers to his contribution to democratic and reform changes. Looks like it's the only thing we can put on him as a plus. These changes, given his biography, start in 1989. Therefore, much is disputed. Only one thing, apparently, is not controversial in this country, and that is the media darkness that this government is constantly trying to impose, and it seems to succeed. It starts with banning the transfer of sessions of this assembly, to the position of one television station, and it is obvious that this television has done nothing to spread democratic processes in Serbia, but throughout the whole time, through the transfer of the ham and the editorial policy of that television, it has done quite a reverse, and not only democracy, but also civilization flows in this country. She knew that she advertised various doorkeepers and fortune tellers, and now they're being tried for taking several thousand marks and misleading citizens on their misfortune, but at the same time she's not being judged by that television, even though she knew she was charging from the same people who cheated on her. This means that this television was directly involved in these frauds. There was much more on that television, and it was being broadcast, so it now turns out to be the highest quality that a journalist of the TV should be a member of the RadioDifuss Council. So this is just a shutdown and the little light in the media space that existed in Serbia, this is a continuation of the dictatorship in the information. I don't think any of these proposals, which are unconfirmed and come from such houses as "Pink," could possibly be considered.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29865	The president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29866	I would start with the words said here by Momcilo Trajkovic: "He had to leave Kosovo". It's enough for me that he can't be a member of the Council if he had to leave Kosovo, like everyone else. He can't be a member of the Council. The fact that he was once in Kosovo does not qualify him to be a member of the Council now, if he had to leave. Many of them had to leave Kosovo, but there are many who stayed there; unfortunately they are not as much as we would like to have them there and there are not enough of them, there are few Serbs in Kosovo, but just because there are few, everyone knows very well and everyone knows who lives, who doesn't live in Kosovo, who does what, who does what and who does what. That truth cannot be hidden. Who suggested Mr. Radenovic for this place? He fell out of the sky like that, and then someone on the RadioDifusing Council remembered to propose to him, to take him as their candidate. Who supplied the paper named Goran Radenovic, since he was not a journalist who was in Kosovo, worked there, since he was, according to reports we received from the Association of Journalists of Serbia working in Kosovo, a propaganda with a 3.70 ratio on the Pristina Radio Television? That doesn't match what we got here. Who recommended him to the Broadcasting Council to propose him here? Let's hear that name! Is it an association with Kosovo or is it an individual from Kosovo, or is it an individual from Dedinj? We know very well who suggested it and who needs a man on the Radio-Difuge Council. Could a man who left Kosovo long ago be in front of Serbs from Kosovo at the Broadcasting Council? He can't. Of course he can't, and he can't be. How long will we allow things to happen in this congregation that are contrary to both law and morality? How long will we allow this congregation to protect those who have sinned against both the state and the people? How long are we gonna keep our heads in the sand and keep our mouths shut in front of what's going on? How long will we be deaf to complaints of public opinion coming here and saying that almost all those media, who are not directly interested in Mr Radenovic being a member of the Broadcasting Council, say he does not meet the basic requirements, by law, to be a member of the Radiodifuse Council? If we do not have enough statements from his wife, which no one has challenged, if we do not have enough statements from Serbs living in that Kosovo and who did not leave that Kosovo and say that this man does not live there, to apply for a few days before the membership of the Broadcasting Council, if that is not enough, if we do not listen to Serbs from Kosovo, if we do not listen to the media in Serbia, if we do not listen to NUNS, the Association of Journalists of Serbia, ANEM, who are we going to listen to? Who are you listening to if you vote for Goran Radenovic? Whose interests are you defending? Do you defend the interests of Serbs from Kosovo, who are mostly against him? Do you defend the interests of NUNS, the Association of Journalists of Serbia, ANEM, who are also against him, or defend the interests of one, we can say freely, the media in Serbia that should, through these and similar people, receive a frequency in Serbia? Do you defend the interests of Pinka in this congregation? Is it the Pink that makes you sacrifice your cheek and your ideals for which we fought on October 5th? Is Zeljko Mitrovic worthy of your vote in this assembly to elect Radenovic, contrary to the law and to the views of all those who were our fellow Members before 5 October? Is he worth it? That's the answer you'll give at the vote. Zeljko Mitrovic will probably be worth it to you to make this proposed member a member of the Broadcasting Council. It's your responsibility. We will change this advice for broadcasting and those people who have been chosen against the law when, after an emergency election, we come to power. None of those who came to the Broadcasting Council are going to stay here. Be assured that Vladimir Cvetkovic, regardless of his professional qualifications, will not be in the council, because he did not go well in the procedure for his choice, nor will those for whom media representatives themselves make objections, which is a certain Mr Cekic, nor will Mr Goran Radenovic be in the council. Those who attempt to obtain permits in this way will not enjoy these permits and will not broadcast through those permits. In this Serbia there will be justice, both law and justice, so those who have sinned against the people will not be able to buy everything. Not everyone in Serbia is for sale. If Zeljko Mitrovic thinks he can buy anything in Serbia, so he can't, there are those who will always be against him, there are those who will always speak against him, there are those who were against him before and after October 5th, or the way he works and experiences the media. There's no story of classification or non-classification here, there's only talk of legality and justice. There's no justice here, and there's no legality. If we consider that there are controversial parts of this gentleman's biography, so we don't know whether or not he's graduated from college, so we don't know where he is and how he worked, when he was reported in Kosovo, he hasn't been reported to Kosovo, whether he worked at the Pink company in Montenegro or not. These are all questions without answers, but to them the public gives answers. With that, in this congregation, of course, we can't make peace, nor will we make peace. These MPs, who will speak here, who are from Kosovo, who did not leave Kosovo after the war in 1999, who remained in Kosovo and who suffer everything that is happening in Kosovo, suffer daily terror, are also under pressure from their children, they will tell you what they think of Kosovo and what they think of Goran Radenovic and whether he should be a member of the Radiodifusion Council. The DSS will not support this proposal because this is not a proposal nor a journalist, nor a citizen from Kosovo, but a party, a proposal from one media, which thinks it will thus provide the majority with a national frequency. I'm warning you, national frequencies are low, there's a lot of media to serve you, so I'm afraid one of them will remain betrayed. You know best what happens when a friend lets you down and what conflicts occur. The DSS will not vote for it, nor will it vote for any other proposal unless it is submitted by the most relevant, which is citizens, Serbs from Kosovo and the Association of Journalists from Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29867	The word came from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29868	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for us Serbian Radicals, the first is the disputable authority of the promoter for this ninth member of the Radiodiaphics Council, because we have Dr. Vladimir Mark, a member of the Council in our signature. We know that the president of the council has not yet been elected, that this council has also begun its work by having certain conflicts and misunderstandings between those members that this assembly has already voted on. At least all the members of this council who have been elected should be present in the proposal's signature. I would go from the Law on Broadcasting, for which SRS MPs did not vote, who criticised and specifically referred to our criticisms as the advice of the agency, the composition of the council, in the way the council was elected. We were opposed to the authority and the duty to propose members of the council having, among other things, the National Assembly, the Parliament of the AP, the Government, the Executive Greater AP, university rectors, associations of broadcasting public messages in the Republic of Serbia, the Association of Journalists, professional associations of film and drama artists, etc., NGOs, churches, and the ninth member of the council are proposed by previously elected members of the council, by the proposed candidate having to meet the criteria for membership in the council established by this law and must be a person who lives and works in the area of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. According to us, the composition of this agency does not ensure that members of this council are not representatives of individual media lobbys, nor should they be members of the government, nor of the Executive Council of the AP, nor of these various associations and NGOs. It has already become a precedent, which has already experienced its repercussions in the second decision of the Assembly board, so that we should select some members, and then they, the Serbian Parliament, propose to us the election of the ninth member of the council. This is not the way parliament works, and it is completely the opposite of parliamentary life. We're used to discussing all sorts of unsuspecting suggestions here, so here's another one. We've come to the point that the council has proposed to us a member who's already raised some dust in the press, so his personal data isn't true and he's got counterfeits. I would like to remind you of Article 24(3). The Law on Broadcasting, which says: "For a member of the Council, a person who enjoys the reputation of prominent media expert, advertising expert or prominent expert in the field of importance for the work of the agency is proposed. "That was what was the subject of the dispute in the press and representatives of various agencies. Also, this law provides that before deciding on the selection of members of the council, the Assembly may organise a public conversation with all proposed candidates, in order to gain insight into their ability to carry out the tasks of the agency. The assembly didn't take advantage of this possibility. Not to discuss whether the proposed candidate now has any reference to be a member of the Agency's council or not, if there are such doubts, and we have seen them in the presentation of the head of one of the parliamentary clubs here, I assume that the other will discuss this direction, because of the overall atmosphere created in public about the election of this member of the Agency's council, I think that the Assembly should cut this out by using its powers under Article 24, that is to organise a public conversation with this candidate and verify all these facts, to see if he has the capacity to carry out the tasks of the Agency's authority or not. So if we don't just go to it, we've secured most of it, they're going to vote on the proposed candidate, it's also a burden for that candidate who's supposed to be a member of that council. It's pretty irresponsible here on our side. If there is a suspicion of the majority, that suspicion should be cleared up in a direct conversation with the proposed candidate. The law alone allows us to do so, and we do not need to flee from our powers. True, Article 25 provides for a provision that speaks of incompatibility with membership in the council. In point 4) shall exclude persons who, as shareholders, shareholders, members of the managing authority, members of the supervisory authority, employees, persons under contract and alike, have interests in the legal person involved in the activities of production or broadcasting of radio and television programmes or related activities, as the membership of such persons in the council could lead to conflicts of interest. There is indeed doubt here, from what we have been able to read from the press, that Mr Radenovic is one of the employees of Pink Television, so it is already incompatible with the Council's membership on the basis of Article 25. If we don't have another way then we should use this one that I was talking about, that the Assembly is talking to the proposed candidate, that it puts all the necessary documentation on the table and that we know really who we choose and who we stand behind. Now, just because this advice has decided as it has decided, we need to stand behind that proposal and I don't think that's right. The candidate is also obliged to issue a mandated proposal, and in this case to the Agency's Council, a written statement that there are no disturbances to the election, which are set out in Article 25, this which I was now talking about, whether he is employed, whether he is a member of a political party, an MP is not and we know that, but there is much here that we do not have. First of all, we do not have this statement that there are no obstacles to the choice set out in the position of the first member. We have his consent here - I give my consent to be elected member of the Broadcasting Council, but it does not say anywhere that there is a statement that there is no interference with the choice set out in Article 25(1). So for these procedural reasons, I urge that we stop choosing this member of the Council, not going into it at this point, because we have no basis for what we have said, we have what we read in the press. Someone has less, some more information, but why don't we start respecting the law that this congregation has passed? We voted against this law and against those eight members of the Broadcasting Council when it was on the agenda. We will vote for principled reasons and against any member who, for whom we did not vote, will vote, but I am taking the opportunity to invite you, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, that already once this Parliament, as the most legislative body that passes the laws, begins to respect these laws itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29869	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29870	Yeah. There's nothing more logical than that, because if we here in parliament are breaking laws, how can we expect anyone in this country to respect the laws that we make. So, please and the board, those who are authorized to make sure that the acts coming into the assembly procedure are formally correct and that we have all the documentation based on which we can decide here, at this point, to use the powers laid down in Articles 24 and 25. The law on broadcasting, because in the end we finally passed this law here, or you, by the congregation's majority. If you do not do so now, if the situation occurs in the voting day, we will probably have a situation to go through this candidate in the way that is already common, by providing for the nod and illegal majority of parliaments, then we will probably have a situation where, on the basis of Article 29, which regulates the termination of the mandate, on the basis of the requirements of 20 MPs, who are empowered to do so, we will resolve this or any other member, but there are clearly controversy and disagreements about this, for the reasons provided for in Article 29(1) of this Law - if it is determined that he has made false information about himself or failed to provide information on the circumstances set out in Article 25 of this Law. I'm really just calling for the respect of the law. We will come into this situation and perhaps the majority of the assembly will not be able to provide for this, which would also be unaffirmative for parliament; we need to see if there is any possibility that we can withdraw this proposal at this time, to resolve all these circumstances that are discriminatory for the proposed candidate. If we do not, I am convinced that we will come into a situation that one group of MPs, and perhaps the Council itself at a certain point under pressure - because I don't know, I don't know if anyone else knows that the Council on this proposed candidate has decided whether or not it is being overvoted, when it is established, when there are nine members, if five of them are against it, later in its work, to request the termination of the mandate by means of resolution, because of these facts which are currently discriminatory, or if it is determined that the candidate has given false information about himself or failed to provide information on the circumstances that are relevant to his choice. Nor should it be forgotten what this advice should do, that it decides on very important, crucial things. It primarily decides on the natural wealth of this country, which is called frequency, decides on the fate of the media, decides in some way on the fate of this country, because we know how powerful the media is, how powerful the media is and how powerful their power can be to certain phenomena in society by attacking or deafening everything that's going on. We should not allow members of the Council to be people who are the subject of some lobbies or are instrumentalized by individual lobbies. There's already a story here that Pink TV has been lobbying in this case and it wouldn't be good to keep it that way. The Serbian Radical Party, I have made it clear to you these days when discussing the proposed laws, whatever the proposals are, some of the most ideal laws, in this situation will not accept any government law, nor any other promoter when we have such a media image in Serbia, when we have the abuse of government television by the Serbian government, so it is still not a public service. At least we have the opportunity to say this publicly, although we obviously cannot influence it, we are warning the competent assembly committees, to whom we have again misauthorised certain powers, that they are not allowed to do anything contrary to the law and to the Constitution. That is why I am taking this opportunity, given that it is a matter concerning all of us and the creation of a media image and of us, ultimately, and I suppose it is very important for all of us to have the right, not a distorted picture of the members of parliament, that the committee should not have allowed itself such a situation, when it discussed unauthorizedly, even with the representatives of RTS, whether RTS should respect the Assembly's decision to transfer the assembly meetings directly, makes the conclusion that it recommends to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to reconsider its decision. Here, for the third time I'm going to say, it can only be done by the Constitutional Court. If the board doesn't know what the Assembly is supposed to do, if the Assembly doesn't know what to do, who in this country knows what to do? On her part, the President of the Assembly called on all radios and TV stations to take over the audio and video signal for the National Assembly's session. It's not her job either. They know very well whether or not they can do it and whose task it is, who pays for state television, and we all pay for it from our pockets, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We can't recommend RTS to do anything or not. What would it be like to recommend now, let's say, a market inspection, which according to the Market Inspection Act should do its job - we recommend that you respect the law and that you go and control trade, so if they don't, they don't carry any consequences, if the state authority is paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We can't tell the police, we recommend you provide public order and peace, so if they don't provide public order and peace, there's no sanction for that. We fall from precedent to precedent, which leads to one general chaos. No one respects any institution, and institutions themselves, in fact, bear the greatest responsibility for it. The government is responsible for not enjoying any reputation, because the conflicts in it are such that we opposition MPs no longer have to talk about it at all. They talk about themselves the most. We in parliament are beginning to do what we should not do or do against the law, so we should not be surprised that our reputation falls on citizens too. It seems that the particularly ruling majority is aware of it and that precisely because of that, the picture could not be seen by the public, and there is no such direct TV transmissions. However, the truth is always revealed. It's a small country, from ear to ear, stories about what's going on and what's going on. We can't escape from the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29871	We're continuing the debate according to the application for word. National MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29872	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the election of the ninth member of the Broadcasting Council has sparked different reactions in the public. Of these different reactions, it is overwhelming that such choices challenge. For this reason, the New Serbia parliamentary group will not support the candidate's proposal for the Broadcasting Council, for the simple reason it expresses certain reserves and doubts about the quality of the proposed candidate. First, we really need to determine what Mr. Radenovic's address is. If Mr Radenovic lived in Peća until NATO attacks on our country and if in that warstorm and subsequent occupation of Kosovo he had to flee from Kosovo and Metohija, I see no reason why he did not move into the neighbouring village of Gorazdevac, where over a thousand Serbs live. Gorazdevac is about seven or eight kilometers away from Peći. If he didn't move to Gorazdevac, why didn't he go to Big Hotch? If he couldn't go to Velika Hoc, why didn't he go to Lipljan, the Gracanica monastery, Prizrenska bogoslova or Strpce, where there was a large enclave of Serbian living, which is still numerous. So we are not sure that Mr Radenovic lives in Kosovo and Metohija. That reason, if it is found to be standing, is sufficient to disqualify its choice. Secondly, in public, Mr Radenovic presents himself as a graduate lawyer, and then his wife reports to the public that he is falsely representing himself. So, Mr. Radenovic is a student in resignation. We know there are students in the resignation here, I hope that number isn't big. They will support Mr. Radenovic. I guess that's esnafic solidarity. When we talk about esnafic solidarity and esnafic pawnage, no association of journalists, no UN, no NUNS, no UNS, no association with Kosovo and Metohija stands behind the candidate. The poor fact is that a man is running, and behind him no one stands, no one supports his choice. Now a man wonders who supports him, who supports a student in resignation, who stands behind his candidacy? They say it's that lobbyed about Pink TV. We know who Pinky is, we don't just know who Tito is. We really don't know who supports this gentleman. If this lobby is so strong that it does so in order to provide itself with a national frequency, then this assembly must declare whether supporting such a candidate in some way means betraying the ideal on October 5th. I urge you once again to consider this choice. This candidate's proposal is not good. I hope this assembly cannot provide 126 votes, and if it provides them, what is certain, there will be no vote from New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29873	We'll continue the debate according to the application for word. The word is by MP Dragisa Djokovic. The next person to be declared is MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it turns out it's a good thing that TV is banned, because once again, the people won't see another abuse, another shame, another accident, another manipulation. I asked you, some of you who were on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and I asked that we could pursue everything, trade everything, party to everything, but when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, we can't trade here and we can't act so irresponsiblely and irresponsiblely. We don't have a board report today, nobody's in charge of this proposal, we don't have an applicant to explain his proposal to us. He couldn't even honestly explain it, because the proposal is completely contrary to the law, it's completely contrary to procedures and illegal. I would like to say that DSS MPs submitted an additional 8 May request to the president of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee to come forward on the matter of the proposed candidate for a member of the Broadcasting Council. On this issue, we received a telegram immediately, in which the president invites us to a session scheduled for May 13th, where he says the topic of the agenda would be to consider a proposal for a selection of members of the Radioconfusive Council from Kosovo and Metohija. That meeting didn't happen. The board meeting has been postponed indefinitely. Why is he running away from it? I cannot claim that members of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija declare whether Vesenov, for example, is in a relationship with Jesus Christ, so it will rain or not, but as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned and what should be decided by this assembly, it is perfectly normal for the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija to plead. When on Friday at the Committee session, the first session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee after two and a half years, that is proof how much we, this assembly, care for Kosovo and Metohija, asked for this point to be placed on the agenda, what was it? After the first item of the agenda, MPs who were not from Kosovo and Metohija, members of the Committee, with the exception of Mr Branko Besevic and Borislav Pelevic, left the Committee session, so we had no quorum and we could not discuss this issue and that is another proof that this is all irresponsible and unserious. I want to tell you as a man who lives in Kosovo and Metohija, who had the happiness or the misfortune of still living down there, it seems to me, as this government does, that it is much better and that those who live from Kosovo are much more forced, and not in Kosovo, and that is what is sad and not good. I can tell you that the candidate's proposal absolutely does not meet the legal procedure, let's not all do what Slobodan Milosevic did, so that Kosovo will not be a subject of manipulation again, remember the voices Milosevic stole in the SPS-JUL-ND coalition. He doesn't know if this New Democracy still exists, because Milosevic then stole those votes, so these MPs here decided on the fate of all Serbia and the Serb people. Please do not continue that tradition again, that Kosovo and Metohija do not serve as one polygon through which to steal. Don't cross us, please. When I say this, know that neither I nor the DSS has a candidate for a member in the broadcasting council, nor is he stretching it. Please respect the procedure, give the man who is professional and who lives in Kosovo and Metohija, you will receive the support of the DSS, I guarantee it. Don't be a man who can't be a member of that broadcasting council in any way, this is not why some of them set the TV Bastille on fire on October 5th, so we didn't eat tear gas and walk in 1996 and 1997. It is not because of this and such, that you would be in responsible places for us to continue the tradition of Slobodan Milosevic. (Alexander Radosavljevic, from the place: Where were you walking? I'm not ashamed, sir, I was walking while you were sitting in the wind, fighting for your right, so come and discuss it, and if your program is Pink and Zeljko Mitrovic, if it's too close to you, go ahead and defend it. Please, don't throw it away, be as cultural as you are beautiful, so speak nicely, and when you get the word, behave a little bit, I know you're nervous and impatient, but the time is running out. The hour of the hour has turned, time is running out, and it will expire. Therefore, you can, Milosevic could also vote that the country is round, sorry, fourth, but the country remained the way it was, and you gentlemen will vote whatever you want, but this candidate has no support. You've also received a letter from the Association of Journalists of Serbia, you've received a letter from the profession of those living downstairs, but you keep on, force those to whom this doesn't belong and who don't deserve this. Therefore, you can vote, the responsibility is on you, sometimes TV will be broadcast, your mandate will expire, there will be responsibilities, there will be questions and don't use this for your disputes within these DOS remains, because you no longer know who exists. Don't argue and persecute over Kosovo and Metohija, don't ask on television who abused the money, who did what, who sells Kosovo, who wants $2 billion for Kosovo's status. Respect the laws, procedures that this assembly adopts, and this assembly passed the law, where it says a member of the broadcasting council must live in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr Radenovic does not live in Kosovo and Metohija, it is obvious, he lives in Podgorica. There's no qualification, besides the biography that's here, it's funny, from 1986 to 1991 Law School, unfinished normally, and if you look a little better, the man was in 1963, so he went to college in 23 years. He probably had better things to do before that, etc. Therefore, we cannot, I say again, for a hundred times, because remember that Albanian terrorists from Podujevo also voted in favour of the SPS-JUL-New Democracy coalition, do not do it again, do not trade through Kosovo, to arrange Serbia's media space. I'm telling you one more time, it's not at all controversial, respect the procedure, give it to any man, but whoever meets the legal requirements, who lives in Kosovo and Metohija, who meets those provisions that we've made. Don't let one medium, conditionally speaking, which I don't want to plead on, because it's not fitting, it's not worthy to mention his name in this assembly, because it's an element of something that's ugly and it needs to be past, it's not a pink state, but an ugly state, don't let him be your priority, we'll be responsible for all of us who vote this proposal and support this choice of candidates. So I urge you to review your conscience in the voting day and comply with the legal procedure, that is, the provisions of the law, the members who determine this and that you do not vote for this proposed candidate, that the procedure be repeated, because there are other candidates, thank God, is nothing tragic and therefore I ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29875	Right on line, MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29876	Just to clarify some things, just to tell you that I learned about Mr. Radenovic's candidacy from the papers. So, I didn't participate in any of Mr. Radenović's bids, but what I'm saying is this: I know a man, I know a family, and that man with those qualities can be a member of the council. As far as the documentation is concerned, let the competent institutions be heard about it. I said I'd seen a man down there, not just him, nor did it occur to me to control him whether he lived down there or not. If there's documentation that's relevant, then it's an argument that we can vote. If there are different attitudes, opinions, knowledge, allow people to resolve this issue. So, neither Goran Radenovic is my candidate, nor I extend it, I know there are better ones, there are always better ones, but Mr Radenovic is on the list, I know a man, I know a family, and it would be stupid not to go out here and tell you about that part, about what kind of man he is and where he comes from. Everything else is in fact his responsibility and those who suggest it. Please, if there's any other knowledge, let it prove itself. As for the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, thinking the same as Mr. Djokovic, that we should make a statement about the candidate, I suggested that the session be held, I received after the session was scheduled from the competent services that committees, the Committee on Information and Culture and the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija should not discuss it, because this is the direct authority of the broadcasting council and is therefore proposed. In that sense, the meeting was cancelled. So we have the opportunity to plead here too, because our position, positive or negative, couldn't affect, because it's not our authority, not because I've done it under some pressure. So I suggest that all those who have arguments here, to make a good assessment, we have plenty of time to vote by the day and make a move that will be the best. I believe that if this man fulfils the conditions, based on the evidence he has provided, that this first part is fulfilled, he should be supported. If there are different opinions, different evidence should be seen, I have sacrificed a lot in my life to stand behind anyone, because I believe that around Kosovo and Metohija they should be the people who are really going to fight for Kosovo and Metohija. Mr Radenovic was one of the people who made a major contribution to the fight against Albanian separatistism, was with us, beside me very often, led the fight and I have a moral obligation, as a man who knows him, to say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29877	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29878	Is that all right, you're here to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29879	The word has the People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravić, not present. The next to be reported is MP Zoran M. Angelkovic, the DOS parliamentary group and prepare MP Dragan Ljubojevic, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29880	Dear People's MPs, unfortunately, at the moment when we should choose the ninth member of the Broadcasting Council, once again in the Serbian Parliament, they plant politics, petty political interests and break over such a serious segment, such as the media and everything they need to bring forward in the process of creating a European Serbia, for us Liberal Serbia and DOS-Reform Serbia is unacceptable. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the most serious and serious body in this country. We believe that what we have agreed as a procedure is respected, and we have agreed that eight members, which we have already elected, are proposing the ninth member. If we haven't had a dispute over those eight members, if those eight broadcasting members had enough time to look at all the circumstances when it comes to Mr Radenovic, and if such a proposal came to the Serbian parliament, I don't see why they're replacing the thesis again, why again everything that doesn't like this high house. We want to bring our troubled passions to some European norms and principles of conduct as soon as possible and bring the environment, especially media, closer to some of the standards of European models. I don't see any reason why we're making small political games about this, where some groups here think it'll bring them some benefits. It's unacceptable for us. It's not a serious policy. I call again to comply with the procedure. We have clearly and explicitly established the procedure. It is a procedure in the sense that eight members are tasked with proposing the ninth member and Serbia's DOS-Reform and Liberal Serbia will vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29881	The word comes from MP Dragan Ljubojevic, a Serbian Radical Party MP, then MP Dragan Lazic, an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this assembly has adopted many things, and it has lunched with the Constitution, the laws. She passed many laws, they were against the constitution, many elections and appointments she passed in an illegal manner, violating some earlier laws and the constitution that are now in force, calling for the non-democratic constitution and the laws passed by the previous regime, that these laws are not in the spirit of democracy, so they can be violated. However, the election of the ninth member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, if adopted, will be carried out with a violation of the law passed by the Assembly in this assembly. Two members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency were elected in this assembly in an illegal manner. That was a public dispute. It's a fact, no matter what you deny or go over it. The unquestionable fact is that two members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency have been voted and elected in an illegal manner, and now this Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, illegally established, is proposing to us the ninth member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, again in an illegal manner. The fact is, there are disputes in public. Some believe Momcila Trajkovic, that the man lives in Kosovo and Metohija. There are those who believe his wife, that this man does not live in Kosovo and Metohija and that he has not graduated from law school. So the public is divided. It remains for us to trust Momcila Trajkovic, who said in his reluctance that he had seen him in Kosovo and Metohija and that he knew him and his family. You've seen Mr. Trajkovic, and Clinton in Kosovo and Metohija and Madeline Albright. If that is an argument enough, or reason for someone to be elected as a member of the Broadcasting Agency Council, why did you not propose and support such a proposal? I assume you know one of them personally, that you've had a chance to meet them. I'm not sure about the family. It is also a questionable fact that we have established whose candidate is Goran Radenovic, he is the candidate of one, I cannot call it television, it is rather a newsletter of one of the ruling parties. He is the candidate of the Pink Corporation, which was publicly reported by the Democratic Party, whose programme is being organised by the officials of the Democratic Party and the Civil Union; they add to me that he is a newsletter and a Civil Union of Serbia, for that moment I did not know. So this council will deal with serious issues, serious problems, the boss, or the country's natural wealth, these are frequencies, national frequency allocations. It is an extremely important area, because we are all aware of the impact on public opinion, the creation of public opinion and everything that is happening today in the modern world has means of communication, above all, electronic media. This seat of the Broadcasting Council member, which is to be filled by Goran Radenovic, was somehow bought by Pink Television; it is trying to provide five votes in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency to get a national frequency. Today I read in the paper that a new coalition is being formed in the Serbian Parliament, which will vote on the ninth member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. It's that spare version. It is obvious that due to the newly created conflict at the Covic-Mitrovic route, the Democratic Alternative will not vote for this ninth member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, but that is where the reserve variant, as currently written by the newspaper, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Party of Serbian Unity, jumps in. I warn you that what you're doing with the law that you've passed and that one day all this will fall into the water, the majority of the congregation will change, whether by the end of the year, whether in the spring or at the end of next year, the relationship of power in the Republic Assembly will change. The fact that you've chosen the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in an illegal and illegal way, and he's assigned a frequency to someone, doesn't mean that it's going to last forever, and that forever those to whom you've granted an illegal and anti-constitutional privilege, some natural wealth, will have and govern it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29883	The People's MP Momcilo Trajkovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29884	After this, I won't need to speak again. I repeat, I do not claim that Mr Radenovic lives in Kosovo and Metohija, but I also do not claim that he does not live in Kosovo and Metohija. He has proof from the competent institution that he lives in Kosovo and Metohija. I didn't follow him, and I didn't follow him. If there's anything that says otherwise, let's prove it, so we don't go after something that's not good. I support it if all the documents submitted by Mr Radenovic are correct as a candidate. I spoke as a man about Mr. Goran Radenovic. I've known that gentleman since I was a kid. I know his father. I must say that I am now the CEO of the company where his father was formerly the director, so it would be stupid not to say something good or bad if there was something wrong with Mr. Radenovic. I can tell you all about that boy. As for this, I know he was out of Kosovo and Metohija, but I also know he was coming back. Whether or not to log out, documents speak for it. Whether he's got a college degree or not, if he said he had a college, the papers are talking about it. I can't guarantee that. Let the competent institutions talk about it. As far as Clinton and Albright are concerned, I've had no luck meeting their family. I must say that many, who were then in power, fled Kosovo and Metohija, were one of the few, along with the honourable MP Mr Ljubu Kragovic, whom I highly appreciate for that reason, that we remained to defend what we can defend. I also talked to the black devil to save at least one life. Many people still meet me today and thank me for helping them when it was most difficult for them. That's not a negative, but I think it's a plus. I'm not a man who wants to get into conflict. You appreciate your political platform and fight for it. I respect what you're doing. I never wanted to go into any conflict, especially not some fundamental conflict, I even had the chance to support you, the only one in this room, when many didn't support you. For this reason, in communications with the Serbian Radical Party, as well as with all other forces, I want to have a correct relationship, with an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29885	The word has a folk MP Dragan Lazic, and the next registered speaker is MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29886	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, there remains a strong impression that there is no representative of the Broadcasting Council, and eight of them have been elected here in this assembly room. I think it is much more important for one of them to be a proposal of the ninth member of the Council, who should be from Kosovo and Metohija, because that would be more authentic. In this way, it remains unmistakable on behalf of whom Mr. Trajkovic is speaking: whether on behalf of DOS, whether on behalf of the Radiodifuse Council, or perhaps the promoter is in front of the Radenovic family. Nothing's funny, this is a very serious topic. [[Laughter and applause of the MPs present in the O.R.]] I know as much as Mr. Radenović. We're not going to swear now who made what contribution throughout this 15-year opposition period. There remains something recorded that Mr. Trajkovic has not spoken of. Mr. Trajkovic kept quiet that Mr. Radenovic was the last president of the Alliance of Socialist Youth in Pristina, in fact it may have been a communist youth. He kept quiet the fact that it was his frame. That's what we need to talk about. He kept quiet the fact that after that, he moved to New Democracy, it was 1990. He kept quiet the fact that even now Podgorica boasts that he has "a strong back" that will push him to a place he prefers. What's that back there? I guess that's the media house he works in, that's "In" TV, or "Pink" TV branch for Montenegro; Mr. Goran Vesic, who doesn't visit this building these days, also supports it. It is also obvious that Mr. Trajkovic also supports him, for some entirely different reasons, and speaks on behalf of DOS-ada and DOS supports him. When there are no members of the Broadcasting Council, when there are no people behind that personality, I'm afraid it's going on with committee decision-making again, so the way the DOS handled it, not whether or not it owns a professional quality, is it capable of working in this place? I'm afraid it's about taking over one national frequency, although there are three left, so there's an information policy for certain structures to be implemented. The fact that there's no television transmission and how it's done on Pink TV is best said that we're on the verge of new elections, and after these elections, ladies and gentlemen, you're going to have to imagine a little bit what kind of man that people have been chosen for Radio-Difusion Council, who are people on the board of state television, how they're going to continue doing that state television after these potential elections. We're just gonna talk about this. In light of what I just said, when someone swears in Kosovo and Metohija, we heard that there is a Strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Kosovo and Metohija. Has Pristina Radio-Television been fired as part of the strategy and 210 workers these days? I assume you got that letter. Is the state strategy part of firing 7,800 workers in Kosovo's Elektroprivred and Metohija? If this is part of a state strategy, and you choose people who are in Podgorica, not in central or northern Kosovo, it is quite clear that the state strategy is in some kind of deadlock. There must have been a lot better solutions. Do not convince me that there are no people from the University, who are still active today, living in central Kosovo or in northern Kosovo and Metohija, who would meet all the needs that require one such place as a member of the Broadcasting Council. Please listen to me. [[Sagar.]] If you want, I'll listen to you, as I always do. It's obvious someone's nervous, so this is what I'd like to end up with. I'd ask a fellow MP to come out for a pay phone and say what he thinks. Otherwise, I didn't get a chance to hear him speak on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija. If there is already a serious state strategy, it will have to deal with personal solutions seriously, but not like this. I know Goran Radenović in a completely different version than what Mr. Trajkovic was talking about. So DOS trusts a man and doesn't trust the professional qualities of a man to be chosen. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29887	The whole exhibition of Mr. Lazic was about the discussion of MP Momcilo Trajkovic, who was mentioned several times. His presentation was a comment of Mr. Trajkovic's discussion. The word is made by MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29888	I'm in favour of getting first of all those people living in Kosovo and Metohija. That's what the law defined and I don't want to go into it. I think it's wrong that the law defined it that way, but that's the way it is. In my political action, my goal is to bring together those who are exiled and those who are in Kosovo and Metohija. I would say to Mr Lazic that we were in the same party, we were together in the Social Democratic Party. He was the chairman of the City Committee of the Social Democratic Party, along with me. I appreciate his contribution. Mr. Lazic, like many, does not live in Kosovo and Metohija today. Mr. Lazic had to leave Kosovo and Metohija because he lived in the centre of Pristina, and there the ant could not remain alive, and about Mr. Lazic, not to speak. That is why, in these discussions, we should take care of all this. Mr. Lazic also represents the Kosovo-Methochian Serbs, in high positions, here, in parliament, as well as in the federal parliament. Of course, I support that. Mr. Lazic is a man who deserves that position. I think he's doing it the best way. Therefore, I believe that even in this situation, when we are discussing one issue that is difficult, those who had to leave Kosovo and Metohija must at least have little understanding for those in similar positions. I don't think we should open this subject that way, but we should try to bring these things together.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29889	The word has a People's MP Zoran Krasic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29890	The election of the ninth member of the Council, proposed by eight elected members a month ago, is obviously only a reason to open up the topic of how these frequencies will be distributed as national wealth, who will and how to position themselves and who within the DOS will withdraw, will gain more advantage over the upcoming elections, probably at all levels. So that today's debate about whether Goran lives in Podgorica or in Kosovo and Metohija, whether he's finished or not, what a woman thinks about him, whose fit, who suggested him, is something that's been inserted, like an ordinary bone that needs to be gnawed in this room, to cloud the main and central issue, which is that this law is delayed, or its application is being delayed for almost a year, precisely because DOS, such originals, ticks or the next one, is not satisfied with the existing situation in the media sphere, especially when it comes to electronic media. He wants to change that state, but there's no agreement on what that future change should be like. Obviously, it is the positions and the assessment that in tomorrow's, possibly voting on that council, probably some decision would have to be 5-4. So Goran, neither guilty nor due, was practically pulled out as one problem, or a candidate who is now being undressed by people, enters his moral character, why he moved out, when he moved out, etc. We all forget that it's essentially about one bad law, a bad solution that draws and creates such problems. The whole council, its jurisdiction, the jobs to do, so why not say, and the receipts that should be provided to the members of that council, a little bit of a reminder of some NGOs, because apparently the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it proposed such a Law on Broadcasting, had no intention or desire to take full responsibility for the state of electronic media. The bill set up appropriate advice, so it has been passed on to some jobs, reportedly experts will do so, and in fact it will do DOS politburo, the DOS politburo that boasts the burning of Serbia's TV building. The SRS, of course, does not want to intervene in these disputes, does not want to arbitration in the upcoming positioning of political parties, not so many media. Those who say that some media in the council have their own representatives, knowingly forget or do not want to say that it is political parties. It's true, someone's in conflict with B-92, and B-92 jumps up to a couple of embassies, then reports, and then some government officials come out and say, "They're prosecutors, they're gonna report us to the Americans." Basically, we're talking about what DOS particularly insisted on when it came to power on the wave of that movement, we're talking about what happened. Free and independent electronic media, which have been formed and founded by other people's money, during the most difficult economic crisis and war, and we extract the problem of Goran Radenović. We will have fun today with Goran Radenovic, the debate will be postponed, or a vote Tuesday. He'll probably be the man to withdraw his candidacy. He probably had some personal motives, because of the tempting amount of compensation he would receive as a member of that council, and there is probably a need for man to provide some of his existence. It is not good that the bad law with the bad solutions of the Assembly in the debate abuses in an inappropriate way, so we talk about family, about family, about correcting some irregularities, wrong law settings, and that we all forget the positioning of DOS parties, which are obviously in a fight both within the coalition and in the obvious state of decay, each party individually. We don't want to treat it, we want to help you fall apart as soon as possible, we want to help you never pick this advice, never start working, never share any frequency, or determine who will use the national treasure, but some government and competent ministries to propose a change of law and take responsibility. Behind this calling of the council is Zoran Predic, Goran Vesic, and not to mention. You know very well who's hiding, and these are the ones from that budzak that create and the mental health of this people, these writings in the paper, and these are by reporting to citizens via electronic media. I would immediately raise my hand for Goran Radenovic if he came out here and guaranteed that the SRS would also be present one minute a day at the impact site in RTS or in another electronic media. Watch out, you write democratic standards, and these democratic standards will apply in a few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29891	The word is made by the MP Svetlana Stojanovic, and followed by the MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29892	Dear People's MPs, the Law on Broadcasting has a noble goal of ensuring freedom, professionalism and independence in the work of TV and radio stations. This law prohibits any form of censorship and influence on the work of television and radio, prescribes objectivity, prohibits discrimination, etc., paraphrasing Article 3. These more than honorable goals should, under the law, be achieved by the Republic Broadcasting Agency, a body independent of any state authority and any legal or natural person, who is professionally engaged in television and radio journalism. The broadcasting agency is managed by the agency's council, whose competences are enormous. So, it brings a development strategy, controls the work of TV and radio stations, issues broadcasting permits, prescribes rules that are binding on broadcasters, punish broadcasters, takes care of respect for copyright and related rights, prevents the broadcasting of content that promotes discrimination, hatred, violence, etc., paraphrasing Article 8. According to the Law on Broadcasting, the powers of members of the council, in order to achieve such grand and honorable goals, had to be enormous, and the possibility of a member of the council being replaced almost does not exist. Since the law itself requires that nine of them are not to be controlled, in order to enable them to work professionally and on their own conscience, a member of the broadcasting council should be a mere saint and never a living man who can make a mistake if the system does not control it. It's hard to define a living saint, and it's even harder to find him among the living people, but the Law of Broadcasting has defined people who are certainly not saints, so they can't be members of the council. These are MPs, republican and federal, elected and appointed persons, party officials (the membership of any foreigner and at all politics is the best proof that there is no speech about an honorable man), owners or employees on television and radio, legally convicted persons and spouses, parents, relatives to the second degree of kinship, this is the above mentioned Article 25. The Serbian assembly has chosen eight of those who believe their moral integrity is so much that under no conditions will it ever be able to influence them politically or otherwise in the future, so that they do not need to be controlled or replaced. Respect for the law and the prescribed procedure is the essence of democracy, so I would like to remind ourselves of the procedure by which we have reached these eight saints, and today we choose the ninth. I'm not saying anything about the personalities that we've already chosen as the Assembly for most of the votes. I am talking about the procedure for their election, and I am calling for Article 24 of the Council's selection procedure. Among other things, the Assembly will publicise all valid lists of candidates at least 30 days before deciding to elect a member of the Council; the Assembly may organise public talks with the proposed candidates before deciding on the election to gain insight into their ability. The Serbian Parliament was not at all interested in taking advantage of this possibility, so I did not, as an MP, have had the opportunity to gain a personal impression of any of the candidates whose term of office could cease, Article 29. The law, only if God doesn't let him die, resign himself or if it is determined that when he submits the proposal, he listed false information or failed to provide information that would disqualify him as a member of the Council. One candidate, proposed by the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group, quit before he was elected, because he failed to provide information that would disqualify him. He forgot to say that for political reasons, he threw his colleagues out of college. We lost one of our potential saints in advance. The Serbian government also had a candidate who, before being elected, but after being nominated, discovered that he was not a saint, so she replaced him with another potentially uncut member. However, things are the worst with the candidates that we, the Serbian Parliament MPs, have proposed. The democratic decision of the Committee on Culture and Informing the Serbian Assembly is to become one of the two candidates who collects the largest number of signatures of MPs, but the decision was in effect only three hours. One of the two candidates with the largest number of signatures of MPs, DOS-Reform Serbia candidate, the one who missed something from his biography, happily agreed to withdraw his candidacy. DOS has been given the opportunity to propose a new candidate for the saint. The problem remains with those 30 days, how much candidacy must be known to the public. The Committee on Culture and Information at 12:00 p.m., on the day of the election of members of the Council, made the right decision to remove the item from the agenda and wait for the prescribed deadline. At 15.00 hours as a member, more specifically the vice president of the Committee on Culture and Information, I received a phone call to attend the second session of the Committee on Culture and Information at the beginning at 15.00 hours. So, at 15.00 hours in 15.00 hours. Since I was not fortunate to be three steps away from the sitting room, and unlike some other MPs who have the ability to teleport from Thessaloniki and elsewhere, I was prevented from taking part in the session where the new decision was made. Instead of the candidate who withdrew his own candidacy, a new candidate for the Serbian Parliament was proposed, which did not have to wait 30 days and all eight members of the Council were elected the same evening at 1900 hours. We now have eight members of the Broadcasting Council and we have already broken a law that has not even begun to be implemented. After the Law on Broadcasting was passed, it was really necessary to choose the Council as soon as possible to transform Serbia's Radio-Television into a public service. It's not done. It hasn't been done in seven months, and now we don't know who's running RTS, the board of directors under the old law, or the Council of the Broadcasting Agency, who hasn't been elected yet, so I guess that's why he can't manage it. Such a situation does not last seven days. It's been going on for eight months now. For the Council to finally start working, and the Law on Broadcasting can be implemented, we choose the ninth member, the one from Kosovo. If this man lives and works in Kosovo, I don't know if he's an expert or not, but from what I've seen on TV and read in the papers, it's clear to me that both are at least controversial. It is hardly possible for this ninth member to be said in advance with certainty that he will be a saint. When the Serbian Parliament passed the Law on Broadcasting, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia were not allowed to participate, because the previous months were insufficiently in the Assembly Hall, and DOS-Reform of Serbia wanted to watch them in that place. However, when the DOS, dedicated exclusively to reforms in Serbia, was more likely to decide without the DSS, then the Committee on Culture and Information scheduled a meeting at 15.00 hours. To come to a congregational calling, which will not work as we do, but rather more democratically, we need choices.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29893	The word is a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, and after it is the people's messenger Vukosav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, this proposal for Goran Radenovic could not be found at all in the assembly procedure, because this Rules of Procedure, which was proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, which you adopted in your trade between you and the rest of the DOS, is as cocky as it is, that someone other than those mentioned in Article 131, gives the Assembly any proposal for any decision. I'll remind you of article 131. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says: "The laws, other regulations and general acts have government, every MP, the Autonomous District Assembly or at least 15,000 voters". We have before us a proposal signed by a certain Dr. Vladimir Marko, a member of the Broadcasting Council, a broadcasting agency, and sent it to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This proposal for Radenovic could not be found in front of the MPs at all, without having been discussed with the Assembly before, giving its position to the Committee on Culture and Information. We are now returning to the situation from a week ago, when MPs, who do not wish for principled reasons to participate in the work of the Assembly committees and those who members went to the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, were there by Aleksandar Crkvenjakov and Bojana Lekic, and they explained why we do not have a direct transmission of the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The editor-in-chief and propagator of anti-Serbian and above all the unobstructive editorial policies, Bojana Lekic, told us that, among other things, this is not possible, and that is what Ivan Andric and Churchenjakov talked about, because he has not yet been formed and has not chosen the ninth member of the Broadcasting Agency Council. The Serbian Radical Party was against the adoption of the Law on Broadcasting and, when it came to details, we told you what a farce the law is, what a suitable ground for various lobbyings is the Republic Broadcasting Agency and we came to the conclusion that today in the Serbian Assembly, here until 12.45 hours, except for competent and primarily justified exhibitions by Mrs Pop-Lazic and all other MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, what would be the most loved by protagonists of certain policies, including some media in Serbia in this general fight for frequency, that opposition would be created in Serbia's assembly. That is what those who said today would not vote for Goran Radenovic, who has been acting as opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia all along. First of all, since the situation between Nebojska Covic on one side and Zeljko Mitrovic and TV "Pink" on the other side, obviously through discussions and false opposition and you from DOS have been transferred to the assembly booth, to tell those who are the favorite opposition, but they can never really be, because it was only shown by the Serbian Radical Party in this assembly and you know it from DOS, and also those who would like to be the opposition, that they don't have much to propagate the attitudes of the Nebojko Čovic, because as he is a mob poodle, and all of you have read it in the book of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and they will pull into the ambis together. Such a situation cannot happen, as happened last year in September and December, that through their false representation as an opposition, the polarisation of the electorate body, that they are, like, nice... (President: National MPs, please bring your views on the opposition into contact...) ) And so it is about the relationship, Mrs Komic, because they voted in favour of the Law on Broadcasting and for the previous election of Council members, and today they talk about their conflicting views on what the rest of the DOS stands for. Therefore, we will use every opportunity, regardless of the fact that the SRS doesn't have ten seconds a day on the state or on all televisions that claim to receive national frequency, without the transfer of assembly sessions, to speak to you as rights and the only opposition, that it is not possible for the National Assembly, with such a violation of the Rules of Procedure, to vote on such a staff solution for the ninth member of the Broadcasting Agency Council. You know under what suspicious circumstances the previous two, Cvetkovic and Cekic, were elected. And while we are talking in total media darkness about this lobbying and what is happening in the Assembly, I must inform you, because that area has also regulated the Law on Broadcasting, that through the network of cable-distributive systems in Serbia is offered to citizens who own cable television to watch three Ustasha programs: HRT 1, 2 and 3. Every day, even today, I received information, conveying sessions of the Croatian Ustasha Parliament. They're your friends, they're the ones you're going to worship. Then look up to them and give direct transfers to congregation meetings.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29895	The people's messenger, Vukosav, has the word, and after him is the messenger of the people, Lazarus of Marjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29896	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in a series of absurdities following the work of this assembly, today is the turn of another, and that is to discuss the Law on Broadcasting at a time when there are no cameras in the room, and there are no journalists. I see the gallery now, and there's not a single media representative here. Of course, there is no TV transmission, despite the conclusion of the Information Committee, despite MPs' appeals during yesterday's work, to re-engage the cameras. For that I consider the President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mrs. Micic. I'm sorry she's not here. I'd say it in her face. In my opinion, she is currently responsible for the lack of direct TV transmissions of this parliament's session. The previous question, which should also be considered before we move on to the debate on this proposal, is why this is being discussed today with seven months of delays. Namely, under the provisions of Articles 114 and 115. The Law on Broadcasting, this assembly, all matters concerning the appointment of members of the Council, was to be completed 90 days after the entry into force of the law. This law came into force on July 27th last year. So, October 27th was the deadline, according to this same law, for the council to be chosen in this assembly, to be established and to start working. Also, I believe that the responsibility for not applying this law is borne only by the President of the Assembly, Mrs. Micic, who was obliged to take care of the application of this law. That's another thing going on with her. As far as this candidate is concerned, with all the dilemmas that have already been made about him, I am in another doubt after Mr. Trajkovic's exposure, and that is whether man lives at all. He doesn't live here, he doesn't live there, is he even alive? It is clear that the proposed candidate for procedural reasons, because the conditions of this law are not met, cannot be a candidate at all. I will read to you the latest of Article 23 of this Law, which, among other things, says: "The nine members of the Council propose previously elected members of the Council, by having the proposed candidate meet the criteria for membership in the Council established by this law and must be a person who lives and works in the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija." So, even under the assumption that the gentleman is alive, quite certainly, it is seen from his biography attached here, he does not work in Kosovo. The question is, does it work at all, because there's no such thing as that? Therefore, we have a man we don't know if he's alive, whether he works, he certainly doesn't live or work in Kosovo. It is completely absurd and pointless to discuss it, for it is not a person who meets the basic provisions of the law that this congregation has adopted. But this is the highlight of a story, a completely absurd story about the state of the media, especially in the electronic media and the intentions of the current republican government when it comes to electronic media, in general the media in Serbia and the application of the Law on Broadcasting. I'll remind you of a few facts about this law. First, it is unnecessary to postpone the adoption of the Law on Broadcasting, almost a year and a half since the constitution of the Government. It was finally brought in in the summer of last year, in July of last year in this assembly, without the presence of DSS MPs. In doing so, the ruling majority's will has essentially changed the key provision of this law, as regards the composition of the Broadcasting Agency's Council. The original intention of the law's author was to ensure impartiality, to eliminate the influence of daily policy and political spheres from the work of this council. For this reason, the Council was supposed to have 15 members and that a large majority in the council was given civil society. Last July, on a proposal from the government, the Council was reduced from 15 to 8 members, and what we then announced and pointed out outside this room was that the government would put this council under its control. This is what is being shown today, because in the Council there is one representative of the government, one representative of the assembly majority, one representative from the province government. Now you've got the fifth man under the grains of grain and the government will have absolute control over this council. In this way, everything that has been said and written in the Law on Broadcasting, and in particular this advice, is devised. It is clear that nothing is changing in the media sphere in Serbia, that nothing is changing in electronic media and that the law is being put out of force before it starts to apply. Already under question, two so far appointed members of the Council have been appointed, and now the third member of the Council is under great suspicion from the public, above all under suspicion of professional circles, under suspicion of journalistic associations and associations. The council was at the beginning unthinked, at the beginning compromised. He loses both credibility and legitimacy in the constitution, and it is clear that this advice cannot have authority in the future, and the basic thing he should have is the authority, because with this law he regulates tasks in the field of broadcasting. It is absolutely certain that one at the beginning of a compromised council will not be able to make any valid decisions in this area, in particular it will not be able to withstand political and other pressures when what is fundamental to this law comes in turn, which is the distribution of frequencies. Is this advice going to be able to shut down the frequency of some TV that doesn't deserve? I claim he will not, unless the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Communications Bureau, wishes. So, by establishing the Broadcasting Council, instead of taking over competences in the field of electronic media, this area will continue to be managed by Mr Popovic from a room in the Serbian government's communications bureau. Rest assured, it'll be a very quick time to confirm. We were right, gentlemen, I know this story doesn't suit you, last year in July, when you forced us out of this room, while you passed this red tape law, we said this outside this room, at a press conference. And we were right, completely. Now, here's a year after that you can see that we were right. We're right about this opportunity. I'm going to finish something that's completely absurd, and it's been heard from this pay phone, we've been listening here and everything, so it's completely absurd that Mr. Trajkovic, for the second time I've mentioned him, so I suggest you give him the right to two lines, he says, and it goes away, that some lower official in this assembly convinced him not to call the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. As a colleague, it seems to me to be from Liberals, it's a former New Democracy, says someone here is involved in politics. If we insist on a literal application of the law, and you see it as politics, it really says a lot more about you than it does about us. In the end, I want to grow another thing that is being abused today, or these days in public when it comes to television transmissions and the application of this law. For example, Mr Andric, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Pajtic (he is gone, he is out) and some other MPs in this assembly advocated that there should be no TV transmission. They say - a new Law on Broadcasting entered into force, RTS is no longer under the authority of the Assembly and has no right for anyone in this assembly to order RTS to transfer assembly sessions. Yes, that's true, but only partially correct, because this law cannot be applied selectively. You can't just pull a provision out of this law that the Assembly is no longer the founder of RTS. If we apply the law, we apply the whole law, or at least a whole chapter relating to RTS, but in that case, the Management Board, chaired by Mr. Mijač, can no longer work, and in that case Mr. Churchenjakov is no longer the director of Television and has expired his mandate. Let's at least get around these subjects properly publicized, let's not fool her with some quasiarguments, selectively applying this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29897	The word has been made by MP Lazar Marjanski, the time available to the SRS parliamentary group is two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29898	Gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a few questions. First, who suggested this gentleman, does anyone know? Eight members, all right. Next, the name and last name of the man who suggested it in front of Kosovo. Secondly, I doubt the accuracy of the data he's provided, and for what? His wife was on RTS and documented that the data was fake. If the data is fake, we take it off, and if it isn't, let the wife answer, so be it. You can't play with a function like this, to give false information. Third, all this can be done because there's media darkness. And during Ged, there was no such darkness. When Geda tried to shut down the television broadcast, everyone rebelled, so he found some variant and there was another transmission. How can I trust Covic, Pink and Trajkovic? It's three of the largest communists, three of the biggest socialists and three of the greatest juries. Pink built a JUL. Mira Markovic is the foundation of "Pinka". Covic, we know what he was doing, and he's about to reveal himself. I personally doubt he's involved in much worse things. Mihajlovic, the last member of the SK, instead of the icon held Slob Milosevic, held his power, whatever he said, I don't trust him. How can I trust Mr. Trajkovic, when he put a gun on me in Kosovo, when he swears to Slob Milosevic, I don't trust him.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29899	Please, MP, bring your views on individual politicians into contact with the selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29900	I'm just bringing in, I'm interested in who suggested this man, whether the data is correct, and if they're correct, we're voting for him. If not, withdraw that proposal, because the team of people who proposed it doesn't believe it and that's why I'm bringing them up. It's a link to Covic and the others. Furthermore, Mr. Pajtic, since the president is DOS reformist, can he say that these data are correct, and if not correct, let him resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29901	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, unfortunately I have to say today, we love our MP cards, because I don't believe there's more than 160 of us here. We are discussing a proposal whether Mr. Goran Radenovic can be a member of the broadcasting council. Like all DSS MPs, I will vote against this proposal. You've heard a lot of arguments about it so far. First, it is not known whether or not the man from Kosovo exists, whether or not he exists, where he lives, where he works, how he works, I don't see anything in this proposal. I'll say something he'll agree with most, I think, right now, Mr. Trajkovic. Being a Serb and living as a Serb in Kosovo today is very difficult. But living from Kosovo today is also nice for those who use what they are from Kosovo and live in Podgorica, they are friends of some powerful people from the former times, such as Mr Mitrovica from Pink, or some from the present time, such as Beba Popovic or Goran Vesic, and they can live very well and talk about how they are from Kosovo and how they are from Kosovo. I don't particularly care about the gentleman. As soon as these people are proposed, and we all know that these people's proposal, everyone we're sitting here, that I mentioned, can't be a good suggestion. If he's a man who works on Pink TV, he can't be a good fit for broadcasting advice. What's this about? About a man who just needs to raise his hand to get Pink's national frequency. He can't get it, because it's the biggest shame, it's the shame Serbia is experiencing today. No one from the DSS made statements on Pink TV before October 5th, and we don't give them today. The Pink TV information program is all that shouldn't be an information program. If you want to say manipulation, say "Pink." If you want to tell a lie, say "Pink," and if you want to tell a scam, say "Pink." Last night's Infotop was a disaster. I like to know what my opponents think. We from the Democratic Party of Serbia experienced a lot of things during the presidential election from this Pink TV, nonsense to nonsense, lies to lies. (Alexander Radosavljevic, from the place: You are looking at the singers there. So what, what's wrong with singers, do you have something against singers in Serbia, young Mr. Kragujevac? Don't let your photograph appear, as well as the photograph of Mr. Ristic and Mr. Prime Minister, playing round at the bar next to the singer. Now all of a sudden, there's something wrong with the singer. They probably regretted the late prime minister. All that is wrong in Serbia, all that is the crown proof that there is no reform in Serbia, reform in Serbia is Pink TV. That's crown proof. Everything they did before October 5th, they do now. At the time they worked for Slobodan Milosevic, now they don't work for the rest of the DOS, I won't say they work for the rest of the DOS, because we have this evidence, you can see it, they work for the Democratic Party, they work for Zoran, Chad, Boris and Goc. They work for them and work for Chanko. No one else is working for Mr. Mitrovic. You can see that now. As soon as someone puts a little touch on the furniture, the Pink avalanche moves on it. What happened last night with Velja Ilic and Mr. Covic was the worst thing you could see on any television. This man has nothing to look for in the broadcasting council because he works at Pink, because Mitrovic pays him. There's nothing to look for. The whole Pink is a disgrace to Serbia. Therefore, it is a shame to vote such a candidate in the Broadcasting Council. I ask all MPs, especially MPs from that DOS, who won power in Yugoslavia on 24 September, and then in December in Serbia, to think twice about it. You all know what Pink is. You all felt it on your skin. Don't let these gentlemen keep doing this. I know opposition MPs will vote against this. But I invite you all, remember what happened. Take a look at this, raise your conscience, a little cheek isn't on the loose and vote against it. We must no longer allow something like this to be done to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29903	Right on line, MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29904	The hardest thing for me is when each of us, when he wants to convince someone or gain a favourable relationship of strength, immediately draws Kosovo and Metohija into the first place. I want to tell you this: I am extremely disappointed with the relationship of all of us to Kosovo and Metohija. Last night, I came from the village of Vrbovac to Vitina, where yesterday, Zoran Mirkovic was buried, who was killed by Albanian terrorists. There were several hundred people, unhappy, downtrodden, nowhere to see help, just looking to God to help them. There are no intellectuals, who may be candidates, no members of the Return coalition, no MPs, no people in power, no people in the opposition. The people have been completely left behind, and here we are making an argument about what it means to live in Kosovo and Metohija. (From the bench where Serbian Radical Party MPs sit, the intruder: For inviting them to the elections. ) Please, I was one of the ones who said and got hurt because I was against the election. You know it well. I'm taking the opportunity to suggest, if we're thinking of it, I left yesterday, I didn't have anything to take, that MPs of the National Assembly half or the entire diary, make a decision, to help that family. There's a brother left who's got a stroke. He left three underage children, mother of old and wife. No one helped them. It's only then that we can talk and call. When I say this, I also tell Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija and representing them, and Serbs living outside Kosovo and Metohija, and they represent them here. Most often we withdraw that argument. Unfortunately, I'm just seeing how bad that's not in the law. It's not good in law laid down a criterion, which just doesn't drink water. There's a key problem here. I couldn't agree more with the gentleman, who at one point was talking about the essence of the problem. The law is here and we need to enforce it. (From the bench where Serb Radical Party MPs are sitting: resign as president. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-21-0.u29905	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used this right, want to apply for the word? Is there a report? No, I don't. This concludes the debate on all points of the agenda. Please wait for some information, to set the day for the vote. I'm concluding a unique search. (Momcilo Trajkovic, from the post: Is it possible to make a decision about the daily, how much can we give and one of us can go and take it to the family?) Of course, you can. We'll see about that with the technical service. So, since we've concluded the debate on all agenda points, I'm setting Tuesday, May 27, as voting day, at 10.00 hours. After the vote, we'll start with the eighth session of the regular session. The regular session ends on 31 May at midnight. We should be done by then. You'll get the agenda during today. Thank you. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the seventh session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radomir Naumov and Marko Jaksic; (later) Dragan Todorovic. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all agenda points of the seventh session of the first regular session of this year, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - I am putting the proposal for a Financial Lising Act in principle. For 125, it did not vote eight out of 133 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to decision-making in detail. The title above the member and article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, 30 of the 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Krasic. For one, against 119, there was no vote of 41, out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to Article 2, which were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Dusan Cvetkovic. For one, against 111, 60 of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 3 tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic. Against 112, 65 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to Article 3, which were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. For 10, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 49, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 which were jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Jovan Todorovic. For 18, v. 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 44, out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. Against 109, 75 of the 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 5 tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic. Against 116, 72 of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the members and to the 6th, which was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. Against 118, it did not vote 70 out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 6 which were jointly submitted by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. For three, against 116, there was no vote of 73, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 6 which were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Joca Arsic. For 22, against 117, 55 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Against 118, it did not vote 76, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 7 together by MPs Rajko Baralic and Nebojsa Jovic. For 25, against 114, 57 of the 196 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the members and to article 9 with the correction submitted by MP Milovanovic. Against 115, it did not vote 82 out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 10, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Against 115, it did not vote 84 out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 10, which were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Rajko Baralic. For 30, against 119, 51 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 10, which were jointly submitted by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. For 26, against 116, 60 of the 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 10, which were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. For 26, against 116, a abstentioned one, did not vote 59, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. One, against 115, was not voted 85 out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 11. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Ljubomir Mucic. For 29, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 57, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 12 to the vote. The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. No one, against 115, voted 86 out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 15 to the vote. The amendment was brought together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. For 27, against 111, 63 of the 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic and together Dusan Cvetkovic and Joca Arsic. For 31, against 116, there was no 54 vote, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote The amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic and MP Vitomir Plužarevic. For 20, against 114, 66 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 17. The amendment was brought together by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. For 26, against 111, 64 of the 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 18 to the vote The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. For one, against 109, 92 of the 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. The amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. No one, against 112, voted 88 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 20 to vote. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakic. For one, against 114, there were no 85 votes, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 22 to the vote The amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. For two, against 113, 87 of the 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to Article 24 to vote. The amendment was brought together by MPs Radic Jokvic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. For 35, against 112, 55 of the 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to Article 24 to vote. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. For no one, against 110, a abstentioned one, voted 91, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to Article 25 to vote. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sl. Pavlovic. No one, against 114, voted 89 out of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 26. The amendment was submitted jointly by Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. For 31, against 114, a abstentioned one, was not voted 57, of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to Article 27 to vote. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Against 111, 93 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to Article 28 to vote. The amendment was brought together by MPs Joca Arsic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Golub Rajic. For 31, against 107, 67 of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to Article 28 to vote. The amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. For two, against 112, a abstentioned one, did not vote 89, of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 29 to the vote. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakic. Against 111, 93 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic to the title above members and Article 30. Against 110, a abstention one, did not vote 93, a total of 204. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to article 32. Against 113, two abstentions, not 90, a total of 205. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Joca Arsic on Article 33. For 28, against 114, the vote was not 65, a total of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zlatan Jovanovic as member of 33rd. Against 110, it didn't vote 97, a total of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment tabled by MP Petar Jojic on Article 35. One against 115 did not vote 91, a total of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments, which were submitted jointly to the 36th National MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. For 25, against 112, 70 didn't vote, a total of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 38th joint vote by the MPs Hranislav Peric and Joca Arsic. For 31, against 114, no vote was taken by 62, a total of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to article 38. Against 111, there was no vote of 96, a total of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by the MPs Hranislav Peric and Dusan Cvetkovic to the 39th vote. For 32, against 109, there was no vote of 66, a total of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 39. For nine, against 116, two abstentions, not 80, a total of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members of the 40th and a member of the 40th floored by MP Dragan Colic. Against 111, it wasn't 97, a total of 208. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Pavlovic to article 41. Against 114, it wasn't 94, a total of 208. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the member and member of the 42nd floored by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. I'm closing the vote. It wasn't against 113 abstentions, it wasn't a vote of 95, a total of 208. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Hranislav Peric and Joca Arsic on Article 42. For 30, against 111, the vote was not 67, a total of 208. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Radoslav Veselinovic to article 43. Against 116, 91 did not vote, 207 in total. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet, on Article 43. Against 113, it wasn't 96, a total of 209. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 43rd vote together by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Sreten Mitrovica. For 36, against 106, the vote was not 67, a total of 209. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Radoslav Veselinovic to article 44. For two, against 116, it didn't vote 91, a total of 209. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 44th vote together by MPs Miomir Ilic and Ljubomir Mucic. For 31, against 116, there was no vote of 60, a total of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to article 44. Against 112, there was no 94 vote, a total of 206. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to article 45. For two, against 110, it didn't vote 94, a total of 206. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 46. Against 108, it did not vote 97, a total of 205 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 47. For one, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 90, a total of 206 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic on Article 48. One, against 106, was not voted by 99, a total of 206 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to article 49. For one, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 89, a total of 205 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Radojko Petric and Joca Arsic, on Article 49. For 35, against 111, a abstentioned one, was not voted 58, a total of 205 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic as member of the 50th. Against 114, they did not vote 92, a total of 206 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to article 52. For one, against 112, they did not vote 94, a total of 207 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting on a vote on the Financial Lising Bill, in general. For 162, against 42, five, a total of 209 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in general. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - I put the proposal for a CONCESSION LAW to vote on the proposal for a concession law, in principle. For 123, against 78, it did not vote eight, a total of 209 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to decision-making in detail. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet. One against 118 did not vote 89, a total of 208 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 3. Against 110, it did not vote 96, a total of 206 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic on Article 4. Against 116, he did not vote 91, a total of 207 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by national MP Natasa Jovanovic on Article 5. I'm closing the vote. For two, against 113, there were no abstentions, no 90 votes, a total of 205 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Kesejić, with an amendment to the title above Articles 6 and 6. 88, a total of 204 MPs, did not vote against 116. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and Miomir Ilic. For 29, against 117, one abstention, was not voted 59, a total of 206 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to article 7. One, against 117, was not voted 89, a total of 207 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments, which were submitted to Article 7 together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. For 31, against 117, they did not vote 62, a total of 210 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to article 8. 93, a total of 210 MPs did not vote against 117. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others. For 31, against 115, they did not vote 64, a total of 210 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic on 10th. In all, 210 MPs did not vote against 116. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put on the vote amendments submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic and joint MPs Petar Petrovic and others on Article 11 of the same text. For 30, against 113, 66 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Blazic on Article 12. Against 118, abstention one, did not vote 91, out of 210. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 14. Against 115, they did not vote 92, of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others. For 26, against 111, he didn't vote 68, out of 205. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Vakic on Article 16. The government has accepted this amendment. For 118, it didn't vote 86 out of 204. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic and others on Article 17. For 34, against 113, it didn't vote 58, out of 205. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Milovan Radovanovic to article 17. For one, against 114, it didn't vote 92, of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic to article 18. Against 116, it didn't vote 90, of 206. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Dragan Colic to article 20. Against 113, it did not vote 94, of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others. For 29, against 113, there was no vote of 66, of 208. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Rajko Baralic and Hranislav Peric on Article 22. For 30, against 112, abstention one, did not vote 65, of 208. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted to article 22 by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Against 109, it didn't vote 99 out of 208. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 23. In two, against 114, it didn't vote 90, of 206. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic on Article 24. I note that the government has accepted this amendment. For 121 against two, abstentions three, did not vote 80, of 206. I declare that this amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments, which were tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others, on Article 25. For 33, against 110, did not vote 64, of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Lazar Marjanski on Article 25. Against 111, abstention one, no vote of 95, of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment tabled by MP Zoran Krasic as member of 28th. Against 114, it did not vote 92, of 206. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Bojan Kostreš on 28th. I note that the government has accepted this amendment. For 118, against 12, did not vote 76, of 206. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this amendment by majority. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others on Article 28. For 34, against 114, the vote was not 59, of 207. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 28, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Radojko Petric. For 32, against 116, 59 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others. For 34, against 114, 60 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Pavlovic to article 30. For 1, against 117, 90 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic against 116, not 91, a total of 207 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Milos Nesovic, on article 40. For 25, against 107, did not vote 76, out of 208 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after we have completed our decision in detail, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I'm putting the draft concession law to the vote, in general. For 124, against 85, there were three, a total of 212 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a concession law, in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - I would like to put the draft guarantee fund law to the vote, in principle. For 163, against 42, six of the 211 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I would like to remind you that during the search of the Bill's proposal, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become amendments to the MPs: Zoran Krasic to Article 13, Petar Jojic to the members of 15th and Radojko Petric and Dusan Cvetkovic to Article 18. I am putting the amendments to MEP Zoran Krasic. For three, against 119, there was no 89 vote, a total of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet, on Article 2. Against 118, it did not vote 92, a total of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Milovan Radovanovic on Article 3. Against 109, he did not vote 101, a total of 210 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic on Article 4. Against 115, 95 did not vote, a total of 210 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 5. Against 115, 95 did not vote, a total of 210 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by the MPs Hranislav Peric and Rajko Baralic. For 19, against 113, 78, a total of 210 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Blazic on Article 7. Against 118, he did not vote 91, a total of 209 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 9. Against 115, a abstentioned one, was not voted 93, a total of 209 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Rajko Baralic and Hranislav Peric on Article 9. For 43, against 115, he did not vote 51, a total of 209 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 11. 99, a total of 211 MPs did not vote against 112. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic against 117, did not vote 93, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. 98, a total of 211 MPs did not vote against 113. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Dusan Ilic. For 60, against 115, it did not vote 35 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. Against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 92, out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 19 tabled by MP Dusan Ilic. For 65, against 114, 30 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 20, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. For three against 115, it did not vote 91 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which was submitted by the national envoy Dusan Ilic. For 45, against 115, there was no vote of 50, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 22, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Dusan Cvetkovic. For 34, against 123, 54 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 23, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Dusan Cvetkovic. For 34, against 119, there was no vote of 58, of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the proposal for a guarantee fund law in general. For 162, against 45, it didn't vote four, of 211. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on the Guarantee Fund. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, in principle. For 134, against 47, it did not vote 31, of the 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 2 submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Joca Arsic. We're accessing decision-making in detail. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Rajko Baralic and Joca Arsic. For 36, against 120, 56 of the 212 MPs did not vote. I regret that this amendment has not been accepted. I put to vote the amendments tabled by the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, which suggests adding a new Article 2. The government has not accepted this amendment. For 119, against 1, 92 of the 212 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 together by the MPs Golub Rajic and Joca Arsic. For 37, against 118, it did not vote 57, of the 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which were brought together by MPs Dragor Hiber and Ivan Andric on the 3rd with the correction. The government and the committee in charge accepted this amendment. For 123, against 46, a abstentioned one, did not vote 39, out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Joca Arsic. For 36, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 50, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, in general. For 132 against 51, 27 of the 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - MEETING OF THE MEETING OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLICAL AGENCY Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposal of the 9th member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, proposed by the previously elected members of the Council, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that at the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly held on 11 April, it is in accordance with Article 27. The Law on Broadcasting, a draw, and that it was determined to elect the ninth member of the Council for a period of six years. I note that, in accordance with Article 23(2). The law on broadcasting, the candidate elected if the majority of the total number of MPs voted for his election. We approach the vote on a candidate for the election of the ninth member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, proposed by the previously elected members of the Council. I am voting on the proposal to elect Goran Radenovic, a journalist from Peća, as the ninth member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 137, against 59, the three abstentions, were not voted 11 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Goran Radenovic as the ninth member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. After reviewing all the points of the agenda, I conclude the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (The session ends at 12.10 p.m. )
