ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25930	Ladies and gentlemen, I've just received word that the Justice Committee has finished the session, so we'll have a report in a few minutes. We were waiting for that session to end. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. According to official records, the session is attended by 170 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert the cards into the MPs' units. The quorum exists and we can work. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Dragoslav Boskovic, Vuko Antonijevic, Kasa Jožef, Išpanovic Istvan, Radmilo Misovic and Petar Misic. (Employees enter the O.R.) I ask the MPs to take their seats so that we may continue to work. The session was called by the president, vice-presidents, ministers and secretary of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement of Resistance, the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and teachers of Serbia and the USAID to attend this session. I welcome the guests present. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you received a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, which was convened at the request of a group of 109 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) You also received a request for the holding of the Third Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) In accordance with Article 80(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of seven days, in the light of the obligations made for the National Assembly from the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro and the Law on its implementation, under which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to pass a law on the selection of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly within 10 days of the date of entry into force of the Constitutional Charter, i.e. no later than Friday, 14 February 2003. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003, the following Dn e n i d: 1. A bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Administrative Board has violated the Rules of Procedure and today's session is held in irregular conditions. The conditions for holding this session have not been met. You probably remember that last session I advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, since the sessions were attended by 13 MPs who did not have that status, 13 non-national citizens. He held a late session of the Administrative Board, and in view of this advertising, he concluded - that no breach of the Rules of Procedure was done, given that the Committee held on 29 July 2002 outside the legal force reports showing the resignations of these MPs. How can the Administrative Board put off the legal force anything? You know, when it comes to political decisions, then votes on someone's trust, shifts, choices, etc., there may be a possibility of putting out of the legal force of a decision, and here it is a finding of compliance with legal conditions. Secondly, the Committee cannot now put outside the legal force acts of the National Assembly. The finding of the National Assembly is a kind of legal act and you, Mrs. Micic, as a lawyer, you know perfectly well, right. It is a legal act, a little less legal force than a decision to vote for, even less than the law, but a legal act of the National Assembly and it cannot be put outside the legal force by the Committee. Neither can the National Assembly. I have no objection to these people being MPs again one day, but in order for them to be MPs, a complete procedure must be carried out; that the Election Commission should be called together, that they should be determined that they are emptying out the seat of the messengers, that their names are on the list; and they shall go to the Administrative Committee, and they shall be brought forth before the National Assembly. They used to be MPs, stopped their mandate. In order to be MPs again, yes, Mr. Shabic, a complete procedure must be implemented. And what's happening to us here? You, Mrs. Micic, as a respected lawyer with a renaissance, will not engage in this problem. Mr. Sabic, as a prominent lawyer with a renaissance and Minister of State Administration and local law enforcement, will not get involved in this problem. No lawyer with a reputation, including you, Mrs. Micic, including Mr. Sabic, and I think that Mrs. Komic is a lawyer... You're not. All right, that's better for you. You, as distinguished lawyers, will not interfere, and people who have no idea of the right to submit this report. This report goes to your cheek then and to Mr. Sabic's face, to the face of the Constitutional Court, to the face of all the people of the legal profession who enjoy such reputation and reputations as you, Mrs. Micic and Mr. Sabic. I think we should stop this, so we don't ruin the reputation of the National Assembly any more. For these days you were able to implement the procedure, to meet the Election Commission, to say - to resign, what was the name of the King's... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. I'm done. The Korean resigned, now they've resigned, now their seats are filling in, so they're filling in to those people who used to be MPs and still on your election list. That would be regular. But you're sinking deeper and deeper into increasingly irregularity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25932	You, as a respected lawyer, have failed to tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure you're advertising, and you've exceeded your time. (Vojislav Seselj: Article 69) National MP, you've received a report from the Administrative Board on your request. In addition, there is a Legislative Committee. Please listen to me, I think that would be basic order. You can contact the Legislative Committee, and there are also institutions that assess legality and constitutionality. It's not done by the National Assembly and you, of course, as a respected lawyer, you also know well, and I think we're done with that story. In any case, it is the MPs whom the people elected in December 2000. Now we're going to the agenda. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25933	I notice these respected lawyers are ignoring me. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 24. The last session of the Administrative Committee has legalized one illegal decision. The assembly found that New Serbia has two parliamentary clubs. As such a provision stands in the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Micic, you have two options: to change the Rules of Procedure and to write unequivocally that the parties cannot form parliamentary groups except New Serbia; in this way you will especially favour us and we will become exclusive; you have another way, and if you do you will see how many parliamentary groups we will have. I'm doing it for a simple reason, because for this part of the agenda, you're trying to fake the composition of the future assembly with electoral engineering. Mrs Micic, please order the Administrative Committee again to examine whether their decision to legalise your finding on the formation of a parliamentary group, because the decision states that the Serbian parliamentary group is the MEPs of New Serbia, the Peasant Party and the Voivodin Coalition. The peasant party was represented by a joint MP and he was able to team up with someone. He didn't associate with us, he teamed up with someone we don't know anymore. The New Serbia parliamentary group is formed, its composition is known and cannot participate in the formation of other parliamentary groups anymore. Also, the Vojvodina Coalition could not have a parliamentary group for a simple reason not to have a five-seat business censorship, but I ask you once again if there are parties represented by two parliamentary groups. Please establish that by a decision of the Administrative Board and take care of the legality.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25934	Mr. Cirkovic, you have received a report from the Administrative Committee and the answer is similar to that of the previous MP, who has advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, with you of course knowing that I am not competent to amend the Rules of Procedure. You can submit a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, and the National Assembly will declare itself accordingly. We're going to work on the agenda. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25935	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency, I would like to advertise the violation of Article 73(2). Rules of Procedure. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Micic, asked the Administrative Committee here to submit a report on all the controversial mandates that exist in this assembly. This time, as several times earlier, the Administrative Board has completely ignored not only that request by the National Assembly president, but also the demands of the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, because we have asked the Administrative Board to declare five mandates, which have been stolen from us and which we have not yet received. I must say that the Administrative Committee has for the second time ignored the request of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we submitted a similar letter at the end of November of last year, and the fifth or sixth time refused to make a decision regarding the disputed mandates and the right of the Socialist Party of Serbia to have them. Since we will have a later story on who is represented in the National Assembly, I will say something more in detail, but I would like to inform this assembly, as well as the president of the National Assembly, that the Administrative Committee has not acted in accordance with its request and letter. It is said very explicitly to provide a report on all the disputed mandates. There was no saying whether or not the Rules of Procedure were injured, but to know who was the MP in this National Assembly and who was not, as well as to resolve the issue of the demands of individual parliamentary groups. Of course, I am primarily interested in the mandates of the Socialist Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25936	The Management Board has acted on my request and you have received a report from the Administrative Board, and in addition to the list of Members of Parliament. (Zarko Obradovic: I am not happy with your answer. ) All right, let the Administrative Committee reconsider that. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the election of the MEPS OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE You have received a bill submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zlata Đerić, together Zoran Ćirković, Zlata Đerić and Miodrag Stamenković, Čedomir Jovanovic, together Bojana Aleksic, Đorđe Mamula and Petar Cvetković, together Srdjan Sikimić and Nada Kolundžija, together Dragan Marković, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urosevic, Aleksandar Vučić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Natasa Jovanović, Petar Mirčić, Tomislav Nikolic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Branislav Blažić, Miroljub Veljković, Ljubomir Kragović, Dragoljubjub Stamenković, Stevan Kesejić, Dragan Čolić, Zelđo Dragan Todorov and together Dragan Todorović, Joca Arsić, Toma Bušanić as well as well of the Republic of the Republic of Slavić. The amendments that will be filed until the start of the search will be sent to you during the session. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the bill. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration. Parliamentarians Petar Cvetkovic, Slobodan Adzic and Dragan Todorovic singled out the opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that it is time to discuss five hours and I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit a list with the order of application for the word of the MPs. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25937	Mrs. Micic, you have injured a member of the 135th points of view 1 and 5. Rules of Procedure. This is about a bill that has not been filed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in that case, the government is obliged to deliver its opinion on the bill within not less than five days. I understand that she couldn't respect that deadline. There is an opportunity for me to teach you to start a debate under this bill, but the Assembly must decide that it will discuss the bill in principle without the government's opinion, which is necessary in this case. I ask you once again to get out of line with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to do as every rightly elected National Assembly does, according to the Rules of Procedure that you yourself wrote, that you do not open the debate before all the conditions for opening the debate are obtained. However, the Assembly is illegal, even if you continue to do so, if you make such an important law despite the violations of the Rules of Procedures that are evident and obvious, very soon the people will come with poles. I'm just sorry that it can happen that we are neither guilty nor debtors, driven out of this congregation. They won't be able to pick you up. You'll be on time to escape.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25938	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, I also ask you to let go of going to the pay phone, and without any prior checking whether or not you are right, since the government delivered an opinion on 11 February 2003, so there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 135. Your opinion has been delivered and the government has attached two amendments to that opinion. Please explain to me why you requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and there is an opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25939	I'll try to explain. I'm not sure you can understand that. But take a stenogram and read what you said when you opened the debate. You said you got the opinion of the Legislative and another committee. You didn't say we got...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25940	I did say, we'll check the stenographic notes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25941	When you check it out, Mrs. Micic, I'll go out for this pay phone and apologize. I expect, when you check, you'll apologize to me. That's the government's report I'm after. You didn't say we got the government's report before the debate was opened.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25942	I'm saying that I said that you received the government's opinion and we'll check from the stenographic notes. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. I ask if the proposed word, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, wants the president of the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25943	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at the beginning of our work today, I am obliged to introduce you to the basic views that represented the criteria for making this law; they are, on the one hand, confirmed by the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter and, on the other hand, by a policy conducted in Serbia's parliament for the last two years. So, given the imperative norms of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on Implementation of the Charter, which have set very concrete deadlines before us, we propose a law on selecting MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly within that deadline and on the principles defined by the Constitutional Charter itself. Noting the priorities - at this point, the priorities are the constitution of the state union institutions in accordance with the law, the establishment of stable institutions in line with the political wills expressed by the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Charter and the improvement of the political system on which this parliament rests through the decisions we make - we have proposed a law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. I would point out the three most important factors that I believe will be conducted during this debate and conflict political views. These are the factors that define the right to propose candidates for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly: a factor that defines the procedure of the proposal and a factor that for the first time defines the character and status of MPs, in a way that has not been done so far in the last 12 years of the new parliamentary multi-party system in Serbia. So, Article 3. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly has defined the principle of the allocation of mandates under the Constitution and the laws that have been respected so far when this kind of political reality has been treated. Who can have the mandate in the Serbian Parliament? Whether it can only be a party, whether it can be a party and a coalition or whether it can be parties, coalitions and other political organisations. In the most concrete and clearest expression, all those participating in the 23 December 2000 elections can do so. It is the constitutional right of every citizen in Serbia to choose and be chosen. Under this constitutional law, other rights have been exercised, which give us today a fully justified basis to say that in the process of running, or electing MPs, they have the right to participate parties, coalitions and other political organisations that participated in the last elections. The issue of indirect elections has definitely defined the format within which we are trying to, by respecting democratic standards, do a job that has been imperatively imposed on us through the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter. In this way, we come to the essence of this law, which has been observed during the work of the Committee on Law and Justice, politically conflicting, but I think that to the extent possible, it is politically real and legally complete. So, since we have said that elections for the new parliament will be indirect, we have defined those individuals, or parties, coalitions and political organisations that participate in these elections and those who have the right to be elected. The right to be elected shall be Members of the Republic of Parliament, MPs who are in the Council of Citizens of the Federal Assembly and MPs who are located in the Greater Republic. The right to propose them is party coalitions and political organisations that participated in the elections, which were organised in the only possible way within parliament -- at the level of parliamentary clubs, or parliamentary groups. It is a member of the law that has opened up a lot of dilemmas, but I think that through the argument that I will offer to Parliament at least reduce some of them, as I understand, given the Committee's timetable for legislation and the judiciary, there is no willingness to fully respect them. So that's the question of the electoral will of the citizens. Do we, as legislators of the law on the election of Serbian-Montenegro MPs, respect the electoral will of citizens or do we not respect it? Whether or not there is another way that it could be respected more than what was done in the way we compare. So, by an idea which is set out in Article 20. The Constitutional Charter has defined the electoral model on which all subsequent election processes for the institutions of the new state union will be conducted. It's an indirect electoral model. By defining a special electoral model, such as one we must respect, participants in the election process have also been defined, those who choose and those who will be elected. In view of this December 23rd as a rapper, we, analysing our political reality, have come to a very concrete answer that the then assembly composition cannot be accepted as an exclusive criterion in the system of values on the basis of which the delegation of MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is carried out. Why can't he? Several very clear and absolutely legal arguments; they have nothing to do with a characteristic political context that cannot be avoided, because it is absolutely unrealistic for parties acting in parliament to ignore political reality. The legal model is this: both parties and coalitions participated in the December 23rd elections. The Republic Election Commission has verified the mandates for parties and coalitions. At that time in parliament, MPs had one major coalition, the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, two parties, the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia and the formally third party, the Party of Serbian Unity; although it is clear that they were regulating their relationship with an internal collective agreement, which, although informally, practically defines the number of 14 MPs as some coalition expression of political will on which the agreement was made. It is impossible to accept the 2000 election result as an exclusive criterion in this system of values, as it would make a major political step towards our political reality by accepting some of the amendments that are going that way. It has been said that the DOS coalition, the Serbian Unity Party, the SPS and the SRS can participate in the candidacy process; no one else. It's in a legal sense completely justified. However, in political and real, after two years of politics led in this House, it is clear that this would make us far more deaf about political reality than we do when we say that parliamentary groups working in the Serbian Parliament are involved in the process of running. Why this model of the parliamentary group? He's neither against the law nor against the law, and he's completely politically rational. That is also the prerogative shown in the Constitutional Charter, as delegations are said to be elected in accordance with the relative representation of MPs in the republic's parliaments at the time of the elections. This is Article 20. The constitutional charter, adopted by parliament by a large majority. (Glass: Proportional representation. ) Thank you for the correction, I think it's important to be precise So we come to a stage where we define a parliamentary group like that who proposes a candidate for the Assembly and we can talk today whether we are in violation of someone's electoral will, to what extent we do something like that and whether we can apply another model. The only adequate and parallel model, which has been proposed as an alternative in all amendments and in all the bill proposals that exist next to ours, is that the proposing parties be in line with the election results of 2000. Since I have already said that not only can the parties, because then coalitions participated in the elections, since I said it was legally adequate but completely political inconsistencies because it ignores everything that happened in the previous two years, we are coming to the fact that MPs participate in the indirect elections, not citizens. Citizens participated in the 2000 elections and will participate for two years in the elections for the National Community Assembly. These citizens have chosen each of us who today have the status of MPs in the Republic Parliament -- 250 people who choose and can be elected in the indirect elections for the new Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. I think that in such a way that, to the extent possible, we have fully respected the electoral will and we have lost those political disputes that would certainly have occurred if we had ignored the reality of the previous two years and we have come to a concrete result that only one party seriously degrades, which is the Socialist Party of Serbia. By applying Dont's method, in line with the proposals of the parliamentary groups, only one party loses MPs, i.e. it gets fewer MPs than it would if the 2000 model were applied. It's the Socialist Party of Serbia. On boards, they asked me to accept their amendment in which such an amendment would be corrected, but it was unacceptable for one simple reason: by accepting this amendment, we would tear down the whole concept on which parliament has been functioning in the last year and a half, that is, since the moment that there has been a divergence within the coalition of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, then outlined throughout a series of proceedings here in the Assembly, and they are, I believe, well known to the MPs and the public. So between the two damages we had to choose a smaller one. The minor damage at the moment is respect for the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision, which is a disputed Article 88. The law on selecting MPs definitely took away our ability to influence the status of MPs and opened a political plane within which we are moving, respecting the legal system. That it is not just an excuse to show what I do not think should be left aside, and it has been left aside in all the analyses of this law: it is a new definition of the status of MPs. In 13 years, a multi-party system in Serbia and 12.5 years of new parliamentaryism in Serbia has never, in a way defined by this law, been established by the status of MPs. For the first time, while respecting all international conventions, from the Copenhagen document, to all those parallel agreements that have been signed and which make a certain commitment to our society, we have defined the status of MPs as a status that is by no means dependent on the party or coalition on whose election list he was elected either from the party and the coalition that elected him to the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly. After this law on election of MPs, we will be able to say that the MP is a representative of the citizens, or representative of those who elected him, that he is only responsible for them, that he is not responding to the parties and coalitions and that in such a way he is authentically able to do his job, protects the rights of those who elected him and, certainly, we avoid future conflicts that could arise if in a month or two or three, there was a repeat of those situations, those political relations that led to division in some opposition parties or a division within our coalition. It is a concrete political step in which we represent ourselves significantly different from those who, through the criticism of this law, actually challenge democracy and our good intentions. This law has 24 members. It is proposed 70 amendments. Some of those amendments will be accepted. First of all, these are amendments that make technical corrections due to the administration's mistakes, and that is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which sets out something which, in my opinion, is quite clear, but I don't think there's any reason to avoid any kind of repetition. So that's Dont's method as a mandate-sharing system. We have said that the division of the mandate will be carried out in accordance with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, but we accept this amendment, which defines Dontt's methods as a way to implement this. Dontt's method has also highlighted the Constitutional Commission as something recommended and what should be respected. We respected those attitudes. With this kind of work, I think we will get a law that fully coordinates with the constitutional concept of the state in which we live and respects political reality, which would not be well ignored because of everything that is expected representatives of this assembly to do in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. It is necessary to build institutions. These institutions need credible individuals. Trustable individuals are responsible people, but also people behind whom a certain political force stands, which is the political force of our coalition, which is now ready to enter the business. I expect you to put that sort of thing back on the table through a debate about this law. I think I've given you a lot of arguments that speak of this law as a legal proposal that needs to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25944	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. Do the rapporteurs of the committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration want a word? There's no sign-ins. ( b) Do the MPs who gave their opinion want a word? The word has a National MP, Slobodan Adzic, who, at the session of the Legislative Committee, issued an opinion and then a National MP Dragan Todorovic, then a National MP, Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25945	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, at the session of the Legislative Committee, I voted against the draft law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly for the reason that I consider them to be a controversial Article 5(1). A bill of law, as well as a member of the 19th Law. Article 5 of the proposal reads: "Employees are chosen in proportion to the number of MPs the parliamentary groups have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. "This provision is contrary to the Republic Law on the selection of MPs, because it introduces a new category that does not exist in the Serbian electoral legislation, which is a category of parliamentary group. In electoral legislation, there is a category of political party as a participant in the political game and as an entity receiving parliamentary mandates. In this way, the proposed election of MPs for the federal assembly has resorted to a method that is uncertain and that is possible for us to change the composition of a delegation in the federal assembly from the moment to the moment. We ourselves see that the parliamentary groups are a variable category in this House, that today there are one number of parliamentary groups, that there can be another tomorrow. For these reasons, it is possible for us to meet and choose each third day, in accordance with the new structure of MPs and parliamentary groups, the composition of a delegation in the federal parliament. I think the right moment is when the number of candidates in the Republic Assembly is determined, because it is the most relevant fact, so that it can faithfully reflect the voter's will in Serbia, and we, based on the will of the voters in Serbia, determine in fact our representatives in the state community. So this article is opposite and legal logic, because it is not logical to support a legal document without directly jeopardising the will of the citizens, because by jeopardising the will of the citizens, it does not deserve to be supported. One more thing I'd say, this is about indirect elections. These indirect elections must be tied to direct elections. You cannot hold indirect elections for direct elections on today, but on the day these elections are actually held. As for Article 19, he is inconsistencies with the Law on the Selection of MPs, leaving out three reasons why he can stop the mandate of the MP. The promoter doesn't explain why he left those three reasons out. And finally, as a member of the Legislative Committee, I am really not prepared to directly endanger the rights of Serbian citizens to manage the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25946	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, representative of the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25947	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I'm not mentioned, but I think it's important to answer my colleagues. As a proposing, I have the right, and I think it is important, given that he has issued an opinion on the Legislative Committee. The arguments bound by the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, adopted in the last days of the previous regime, for a member of the 19th Law on selecting MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, which is adopted in a significantly different social environment, are totally unacceptable. This Article 19. The bill we are discussing today has no need to comply with the Law on the Selection of Members of Parliament. It is in a very clear and concrete way, through Article 19, an act of discontinuity compared to everything that has been political practice in Serbia for the past 13 years. It is in line with the Constitutional Charter and is a completely incomprehensible argument that, on the one hand, requires the absolute right of MPs to have their own mandate, and on the other hand, calls for a member of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, who is disputed by the Constitutional Court and who is being denied such right in certain situations. It's the only political reality and the only legal reality we can talk about. As for the election will of citizens, I have already said once that the electoral will of the citizens was established on December 23rd, and that: in relation to one coalition; it no longer works in the form in which it appeared in the elections; compared to the three parties that were then participating in the elections and found themselves in parliament; some of them, meanwhile, through internal conflicts, conflicts and problems, have defined some other relations. We cannot influence such a thing, but since we have defined that this parliament's indirect electoral model must be respected, we have defined both the electoral body and the electoral will. The election will be announced by the MPs' vote. The electoral body makes up 250 MPs from the Serbian Parliament. The December 2000 election for the job done in 2003 is "tossing dust in the eyes" for Serbian citizens, as it does not offer any good answer to the problems mentioned during the debate. Therefore, the 2000 elections cannot offer an answer to the problematic status of individual MPs, which is also the consequence of the absence of a final decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, nor the most important answer, obviously the fundamental motto of all disputes, which is that the political minority, through the application of the law, or amendments, becomes the political majority. That's impossible. When the Constitutional Commission defined indirect elections as an electoral model, it actually said that the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly would be ruled by those political majority ruling the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, if there is a possibility of their agreement, and we will see if that is the case. But most of this parliament will be the majority and future parliament of Serbia-Montenegro, and this is a political reality [[Tomislav Nikolic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25949	I'd like to ask you to follow the debate. The predecessor spoke negatively of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, about one of its members, about the former regime in which I participated, and I am the legislator of the Law on the selection of MPs still in force, and the point of the law that you are now contesting before the Constitutional Court, which is that the MP ceases his term if he ceases membership in the political party or coalition from whose lists he is elected. But don't tell us that this member can no longer be applied because he is challenged by the Constitutional Court of Serbia. There is no temporary measure. The federal constitutional court has also annulled the right that you have tried to use. So there is no temporary measure and there is still a law on the selection of MPs, under which the MP ceases his term when he ceases his membership in the political party, coalition or organisation of whose electoral lists he is elected. It cannot be a political reality, which you have created here, without respecting the Law on the Selection of MPs, to be the basis for a new law. He can't. It could be the Constitutional Court's decision that you had time to wait for her. One more thing, if the results of the 2000 election aren't the criteria for the elections we're going to make here in seven or eight days, they can't possibly be the criteria for the decisions by which you've mixed the cards here and got most of the ones you want to cement. If we do not know the true will of the citizens, we say that it is the will of 2000, because after that there was no choice, and who we do not know the true will of the citizens, let's go to the elections. This is the will of the MPs who go from one political party to another, the will of the authorities that influences the will of the MPs and the mixers there, between them you form parliamentary groups. I must ask you - if Marijan Risticevic is now in the new parliamentary group, is there still five members of the Vojvodina Group and the right to propose MPs? In the course of the debate, I will respond to some of the remarks that the motionor makes here, and they do not correspond to the true state of affairs. If the Constitutional Charter has ordered you to have proportionate representations in the National Assembly elected MPs, I ask - whose representation, what is proportionate representation, who? The people - the people have set it on election lists. Only election lists from which MPs have been elected to the Serbian Parliament must be proportionately represented and continued to be transferred to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25950	The word has been issued by MP Dragan Todorovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25951	Ladies and gentlemen, I have issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee and have not voted in favour of the proposed law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly for several reasons. First of all, my opinion is that in a way envisaged by Articles 3, 5 and 19 of this law cannot really reflect the will of the people, that this whole bill is perceived on the wrong basis, from one simple fact which, as we have already heard several times in the presentation of the legislator of this law, political reality requires other solutions. In fact, we could hear several times that in Serbia the political awareness of the people has changed greatly in relation to the deployment of forces in parliament. But before I begin to elaborate my views, let me remind you of the thought of the famous lawyer Valtazar Bogisic, who, in time, said, "As soon as the coat of arms is born, time does not correct." The direct consequence of the work of the illegal and illegal parliament of Serbia is the adoption of the Charter of the Serbian-Montenegro State and is also contained in the proposed law. We really need to ask ourselves, is it possible to determine the people's will in any other way than directly in the elections? As officials acknowledge that political reality does not correspond to the state of the Republic of Parliament, we can ask ourselves openly why there is no political will among people holding the current government in Serbia to check or comply with the situation in the Republic of Parliament in the only possible legal and political way, which is by calling republican elections. However, since I have singled out my opinion as a member of the Legislative Committee and as a lawyer, I have to point out a few things that are not legally acceptable in this bill. As we have already heard, the right to propose MPs to the new community, more specifically in the new assembly of the Serbia-Montenegro community, is based on the fact that parliamentary groups in the Republic Parliament can propose their representatives. Are parliamentary groups in the republic's parliament a reflection of political reality in Serbia today? Of course not. As an elaboration, the administrative committee's decisions in a number of cases ended the election will of the people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, expressed in the 23 December 2000 elections, by forming phantom parliamentary groups, and all to one end, all for the sake of staying in power of those who are now in power in Serbia. Also, the procedure for proposing the provisions of this law is extremely bad. Is it good that such a procedure should be chosen by the MPs? Let me read it; Article 5 reads: "Employees are chosen in proportion to the number of MPs the parliamentary groups have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". So again the parliamentary groups; they are by the will of the Administrative Committee, not the peoples of Serbia, formed and held by the majority in this assembly. The third segment, to which I must stand, is the character and status of MPs in the new assembly. Indeed, if there is a need for discontinuity with some of the laws passed by the previous government, these laws can be amended, new laws can be passed, their provisions can be repealed. The Law on the selection of Members of Parliament in Article 88(1) states precisely that the status of MPs is lost by exclusion from the party or exclusion from the electoral list. In all this, we are going back to the Law on the selection of MPs, which clearly and precisely states that voters of the electoral lists are the only ones who can decide who will be the MP. However, in order not to exceed the time, I would like to conclude with one sentence which, I think, will remain striking; it is interesting and I ask you to listen to me very well - all of this would not have happened if Pera had gone straight to the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25952	Do any of the MPs who've singled out want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25953	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament. As you know, it is a proposal from Parliamentarian Cedomir Jovanovic. You also know that 15-16 days before this bill was passed by the DSS, i.e. on January 20th, the DSS submitted a bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament. Why does it matter? It is important that the bill's proponent, Mr Jovanovic, took the DSS bill and reworked it, in order and in an obvious intention to transfer the illegal majority of the rest of the DOS from the republic's assembly to the parliament of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. How could he do that? He could have set it as an excelling goal, regardless of being illegal and illegal, not respecting any of the laws so far, not respecting the Constitutional Charter itself. You will see when considering amendments that this bill is contrary to the Constitutional Charter itself. But at this point, it is far less important than the proposing's intention. The proposer gave a law that is contradictory, which is incomprehensible, practically inconclusive, because in its implementation for these two years, as far as it should apply, it will produce significant consequences in terms of further illegality and illegality, both this and the parliament of Serbia-Montenegro. For this reason, the proponent should have submitted a more correct legislative proposal, so that the proposing bearer, that is, the election of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, would be a party or coalition; he has turned the parliamentary group's proposings in this parliament. You know how many of these parliamentary groups there are, and I believe that most of them do not know, because nothing at any moment, in relation to every issue, namely the bill, or the wishes of the Republic government, the executive authority that is put above the legislative authority and its actions, affects the legality, the democracy of the work of this Parliament. The principle of the Republic government's direct tutorship over this assembly wants to shift to Serbia-Montenegro's community level. It is a simple intention from the very explanation of the promoter, the intention of dishonest, that the Priory has for all its ideas and attitudes an absolute majority along with Djukanovic in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. Such an intention has also been caused by the proposal of such a criminal law. I'm saying, from one good bill of law, corrections that have nothing to do with any legal logic or understanding of an ordinary citizen, a text like this has been made. The law should be designed for the fastest layers of citizens, so that the average citizen can understand it. The bill, as I said, creates complete chaos, and it will normally be used, as it has been used in this congregation in the past. I'm going to remind you of just one more fact that was pointed out two days ago on the Administrative Board or yesterday. It is that DOS MPs who resigned, that is what the Administrative Committee has put out of force most of the votes, have been in legal and real error. (President: five minutes. ) I asked the question there: if the majority of the assembly and the Republic government are MPs of DOS - I apologize to the gentlemen I will mention, but among them are exceptional legal experts, Mr Hiber and Mr Lilic - led astray, what a delusion the republican government and this congregation majority led the citizens of Serbia into. Thanks, since I'm way out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25954	The proposer has the law, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25955	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the election of MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly was made up in December. In December 30th, we scheduled a session of the Republic Parliament at which we wanted to adopt the Constitutional Charter and constitutional law. It wasn't just because of one party's will. Only because of the will of the DSS, which blocked the work of the Constitutional Commission, by its representatives, including the head of the parliamentary group, asking for an end to work because they felt tired. As they were tired, the session was suspended, and the parliament's meeting scheduled for December 30th, where we were to adopt the Constitutional Charter, constitutional law and law on the election of MPs, was postponed. The law was handed over in the procedure on February 5th, the day since the Constitutional Charter and Constitutional Law were adopted in the Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. These are facts, and I think it is important to insist on the facts, because I notice that through the performance of the representatives, particularly the Democratic Party of Serbia, they are trying to be bypassed and to offer some parallel version, which has experienced the most concrete condemnation in parliament through the procedure and attitude towards everything they have represented.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25956	Replication right, president of the DSS parliamentary group You asked for a replica? [[from the hall - no replica on replica]] Who else was looking for? The president's giving up. You're not mentioned in the presentation, are mentioned... Please take your seats and stay away from the speaker without the chairman's permission. Thank you very much. (He speaks to MP Cvetkovic. (Glasses - referring to our group, we recognized each other. ) The name and last name of MP Dragan Jocic, a member of the Constitutional Commission, was mentioned in Cedomir Jovanovic's speech. Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25957	I simply recognized myself as a member of the Constitutional Commission in Mr Jovanovic's speech. We weren't sleeping, we were awake for everything you wanted to do there. And you wanted to cheat. The Democratic Party and Zoran Djindjic wanted to deceive the people and Serbia-Montenegro with Milo Djukanovic. It's the essence of things. That was in Podgorica. (Glasses -- were you drunk? That wasn't me, maybe you were drugged, drunk I wasn't. Simply, Ristic was stalling with Mr Vukovic until 12:00 a foolish story, which led to a document like this being made by the government of Montenegro and the government of Serbia, is the essence of things. And as for sleeping, you know, it's better to sleep than to move, like your prime minister does. He keeps moving, there's only one problem -- he doesn't know where he's going.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25958	Are any of the other MPs who have given their opinion a word? No, I don't. ) People's MP Zarko Obradovic, as chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25959	Dear fellow MPs, there is no reason to panic when it comes to this documentation, Mr Jovanovic said nicely that this law is based on political will, therefore, it has nothing to do with election results and what is doing the electoral will of Serbian citizens, but on what is happening in this assembly and what DOS is directly responsible for. But about that one. Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, the bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is unacceptable for the SPS parliamentary group and we will vote against its adoption. It is a bad law, extremely unfair, DOS law and only in the interests of DOS and its new members in clubs formed in the Serbian Parliament, such as newly formed MP groups National Socialists and the new parliamentary group "Serbia", formed to assist DOS in adopting laws in the Republika Srpska Assembly and to provide the government with the necessary majority. The bill is bad because it ignores the December 2000 Serbian citizens' election will, the electoral lists that participated in the elections and the results achieved, the number of votes and, therefore, the number of mandates given by individual political parties and coalitions. The law is not good because it wants to legalise the existing illegal situation in the Serbian Parliament, when no one knows who is and who is not an MP, as well as in the meantime the theft of parliamentary mandates committed, as has been done with the five parliamentary mandates of the SPS, but as far as I can see from other parties. The law shows that the DOS -- the proposing few and those results from December 2000 -- is that it wants its parliamentary majority through the Administrative Board to provide mandates that do not belong to them, and also to him, because they did not get them in the elections, or newly formed parliamentary groups, because they did not participate in the elections. If this law is passed and implemented, we will have one completely dislocated, in any case anti-zaconic and I mean in the world an unknown situation that parties that did not participate in the elections, such as the National Socialists or the MP group "Serbia", that MPs who do not have a legal basis, are represented in the future assembly of Serbia-Montenegro. The SPS is directly damaged in the Republic Assembly, because we have not been returned to the mandates that belong to us, and now we have heard from the promoters that we are directly damaged in this future parliament for two mandates. The elections were held in December 2000, as you know, and this is an official report by the RIK, which says certain parties and coalitions and the number of votes received by these parties and coalitions took part in these elections. The parliamentary mandates in this assembly, based on votes received, have:The SRS with 23 mandates due to the fact that it received 322,000 votes; the SPS 37 seats because it received 515,000 votes; the DOS 176 seats because it received 2,403,000 votes and the SSJ 14 seats because it received 192,000 votes. The DOS then represented a political coalition and taxed political parties that are part of the DOS. I am saying this because, in the meantime, new political parties that did not participate at all in the elections appear and it is completely illogical, and let alone against the law, that these parties appear as someone who is seeking and who will receive their electoral mandate under the law. What does that mean when it comes to the number of votes-about it later. Why the law, as it is, is not acceptable for us and we find it not applicable. First, this assembly does not have a legally elected composition, either because of what the MPs themselves did in the meantime, either because the Administrative Board of the Serbian Parliament did not want to apply the provisions of the Law on the selection of MPs and determines how the term of office of the MP was discontinued. When it comes to the resignations; the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the stenographic notes, a session of June 12th; the President of the National Assembly informs MPs that these and these MPs, and then lists the names, do not mention them, submitted their resignations in writing, that this was submitted to the Administrative Committee, that these written resignations were sent to the MPs, that the first fact was found by the Administrative Committee, that he had met with it the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia established it. It happened on June 12th of the current year. For the record, none, but none of these MPs have expressed in any way their intention to change their original position. We didn't get a written statement saying he was resigning, and if that's even possible, that's another story, or any of those MPs went out for this pay phone and said, "I'm withdrawing the resignation I gave that day and that day." The Management Board is now making a decision to put these resignations out of force, without their written or oral statements, without establishing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The explanation we heard on the Administrative Committee, that these MPs were in legal and factual error, I think they will serve as an example of "bisar" legal theory and practice in Serbia. That's what we heard from the chairman of the Administrative Committee, who, under the circumstances, is one of the signatories, or members of the committee who made the Constitutional Charter. In a few months, when individual bodies, which will be established under the Constitutional Charter and constitutional law, in practice show their dysfunction, expect a similar statement, that it was done then because they were in legal and factual error, which is why it does not work. When she can do it one time, she can do it another time. The second thing, the controversial mandates; the Socialist Party of Serbia has disputed five mandates, because we belong to them, Party of Serbian Unity One, New Serbia Three, DSS One, plus 13 resignations submitted by these MPs. So we have over 20 and some MPs whose status has not been established. The constitution is very clear on this. He says - the election and impeachment of MPs is governed by law. The Law on the selection of MPs in article 88 also sets out very clearly and taxfully all the reasons for the termination of the mandate of individual MPs. For us here, the first and second positions are important - if his membership in the party or in the coalition on whose election list he was elected as MP and resigning. So we have one situation and another. There's something else I need to say about these resignations, and I'm also going to say about the termination of membership. The reason for the resignations; the fact is that resignation is a personal act and can only be recalled until the time of realization, which is realised by the Assembly's findings. After that, every story is unnecessary. The Constitutional Court's decision -- since the Constitutional Court is constantly talking about the Constitutional Court, and we haven't received any papers from that Constitutional Court, may have been given by Mr Jovanovic or the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but the Assembly is not, which would serve as a legal basis not to talk about it, that it is not decided, although I thought so far that we are an independent body, which works as it should, or in accordance with the law -- cannot freeze those realised resignations. When you know that, then you can see how much chaos exists in our National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia regarding the mandates of MPs. When it comes to the mandates of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I must say that one replacement of the thesis is made consciously here, and in an attempt to explain and steal our mandates, we are talking about the Constitutional Court's decision. My colleagues from the DSS are here, so they can confirm and point out the time when they filed their appeal to the federal constitutional court and everything that happened afterwards. For the sake of the assembly, for the sake of truth, I must say that we filed our request first, on April 18th last year. So, April, May, June, July, August, until that question came up on the agenda. We, meanwhile, have done everything required of us as a parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I will leave another part of my presentation for later, but I just want to repeat our basic position: the law is unacceptable to us because it directly reduces the number of parliamentary mandates that we should have as a parliamentary party in this future parliament, because the application of this law is practically another theft of the Socialist Party of Serbia's mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25960	The speaker of the act, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25961	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the shortest possible, I admit that there are real problems. They are not the consequence or the sole consequence of the relationship in parliament, but also the relations of other institutions towards parliament. Due to the difficulties of functioning of the Assembly, we made a decision within our coalition half last year to sanction 50 Members who were the least involved in the work of the Assembly. It was the decision of our coalition, stemmed from the right of a member of 88. The law of the election of the Messengers of the people, which you call upon. But it is impossible to steal someone's mandate when you insist on the law on selecting MPs, that is, Article 88, and that we are deprived of the right to have this very freedom given to that same member. So, half last year, our coalition made a decision in accordance with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and notified the Republic Election Commission. The Republic Election Commission forwarded this information to the Administrative Committee. During their session, the Administrative Committee, to insist on the coalition, accepts MPs' resignations because they are unable to participate in the extent to which Parliament's work is needed, but at the same time excludes from the coalition and the Assembly of MPs who have not requested such a request. The federal constitutional court annuls the decision, which was both a decision on the resignations and that is our reality. As far as parliamentary groups are concerned as institutions and in 1992 it was so. The parliamentary group is always the bearer of political life, alongside MPs in the assembly, not the party. MP groups act in Parliament, and political life outside the assembly is party-run. It was thus arranged by the Rules of Procedure and the Law on selecting MPs for the Greater Republic since 1992. The parliamentary group has been defined in that system. The law was passed by the Assembly, the law was applied until 2000, and I think it is clear that the parliamentary group can only be a proponent. Not a party, but a parliamentary group, because the party does not exist in parliamentary life. As for MPs who changed parties in the meantime, they would never have been in the assembly if they hadn't participated in the elections and were voted for by the citizens. Some of them were high-ranking parties in which they are no longer present, but until the Constitutional Court of Serbia defines the final answer to the question of the status of MPs, we will be among the two paradoxical situations: that we are an interested party to answer the question whether we can have 176 mandates, how much our coalition has received, or only the number of mandates that are equal to the number of MPs currently operating in Parliament; or something third. Until we get a response from the Constitutional Court of Serbia, this parliament will suffer the conflicts that exist today, but this is not the result of our will. The result of our will was very clear and we insisted on it until the moment it was not challenged.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25962	The word is by MP Dragan Tomic, a replica to the presentation of MP Zarko Obradovic. The basis for the replica is the mention of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25963	Dear Members of the People, without the intention of plowing over the previous period in public, about which we are on our way, and which someone else, just for the sake of knowledge, is a known fact in socialist circles. There's a comment here about how someone stole something from someone. I have to inform you that we don't have that skill. It belongs to others and is generally known as the fact of the public. When it comes to morality, I have to show that he's very tall and that no one can handle him except us. Finally, about all of this to remind me, what the Socialists were supposed to do in the past or not do in politics. Different things were happening on Serbia's political scene. We had an extraordinary convention, and then a convention was held, whether regular or extraordinary, that is unknown, and a new convention was scheduled for March 24th. To clarify these facts, when the December month of 2000 was mentioned, it was simple, we were all on the list led by Slobodan Milosevic, which someone is now showing here. All I know is that my exclusion from the party, or the exclusion of my colleagues sitting with me at the MP's club, has never been requested, and in his letters he mentioned the exclusion of many other personalities, not challenging our congress. Our congress has never disputed. That's the difference between us and those who think the socialist idea is their private property. (Zoran R. Angelkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25964	National MP Dragan Tomic used the right to reply. Tell me what part of it you've identified yourself in. Please quote, not the last part, because then there's the front part, but to tell me the quote in which you recognized yourself, because I didn't recognize it, and I listen very carefully to what the speakers say. So, how did he mention you? If he mentioned you nicely, as you speak from the bench, then there's no reason for replication. The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25965	Stealing, thieving, debauchery, ending the electoral will of citizens can be a name for this law, and not a choice of MPs. This is the choice of listeners, not MPs and legalization of stealing and ending the electoral will of citizens. Mr. Cvetkovic, I would not agree with you if this law had been prescribed from ours, because if it had, it would have been far more written and better stylishly arranged. A much more correct, fairer, more legal and constitutional would have been established if it had been copied from the DSS's bill. But, alas, every thing he does stands up for honor. "To whom the law lies in the topless, his tracks smell of inhumanity." It will be felt in this congregation very soon. This law shows it better than anything else. The law is legalising the theft of mandates in the Serbian parliament. If it's stolen in parliament, we've got nothing but thieving power. This authority has stolen mandates and the mandates given to individual parties in the elections; 10% of the mandate in the Serbian parliament is controversial and does not belong to those who wear them today; 10% of the mandate, it is the account needed to ensure that the government survives on the basis of stolen mandates; 10% of the mandate is what provides and extends the life of this government. Before the law was passed, someone determined the number of MPs he needed, thus setting up electoral systems and parliamentary geography for the law. So this determines how many MPs you need for a majority, let's say in the future assembly of the state community, and then says how to get to those mandates: we will take one member of the Soviet Union, three MPs from New Serbia, one MP from the other side and form a parliamentary group. With this we took one mandate for New Serbia on those three MPs and having five MPs lose one more term, so we took two mandates from them; they remain one in our system and they are followed by one mandate, and we have received two and we have provided most of them. Foreigners of Serbian unity have taken one mandate on one man's terms, and here we have the majority we need, so we're going to sneak up on parliament, so we're going to make parliamentary clubs, that's the law we're going to make. Ladies and gentlemen, you who will vote for this bill, you legalize theft. It's an honor to you, and we're not going to get into it. Certainly, the virtual reality in which you live and which you are tailoring in this House will be defeated by the reality that is present in the state of Serbia, among Serbian citizens and who will win some of the next snap elections. Your reality is just virtual. Unfortunately, this virtual reality leads Serbia to a real disaster and to the construction of a state community that will not be created as a fruit of justice, accountability and the faithfully painted will of the citizens given in the elections, but as the will of the citizens, the will of Zoran Djindjic or of someone else and his virtual reality in this assembly will be mirrored. If we are calling for direct elections and for citizens to be transferred from these direct elections through indirect elections to the parliament of the state union, then the most logical thing is to respect the results in these elections, not to honour the results of the theft in the Serbian Parliament. Then the picture in the parliament of the state community would be very different from the picture we have here now. Do MP clubs participate in the elections, by law? They're not participating. If we are already making indirect elections based on direct elections, how can we as a relevant factor in selecting MPs through indirect elections to take someone who cannot run in direct elections - a parliamentary club? It can only be in your virtual assembly, in your virtual Serbia. By law and by the Constitution, that's not possible. We have heard here many times by the promoter an open invitation to breaking the law and to say - those are the laws that someone else has passed and we don't respect, we will respect only the laws that we have voted for, not even those that have been brought against our will in this assembly or for which we have been abstained. We have an open call for a violation of the law, for a violation of the Constitution. The position of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which launched the procedure for examining the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Law on the selection of MPs, is quite falsified here. He did not challenge that member of the law and did not put it out of use, i.e. no temporary measure to challenge the fact or legal facts of that member of the law. Here, the Administrative Board has given itself the right, kidnapped the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, the Assembly and citizens, to tailor the Serbian parliament at will and not to enforce the Constitution and the law. We here need to talk about the work of the Administrative Committee that deafened the letter of the President of the Assembly. We need to talk about what is happening in this Serbia and what state union of Serbia-Montenegro we want. Do we want a state union that will come into thieving and stealing and have the character of a thief's authority? We don't want to. We want a fair government, a fair state that no one will be able to challenge, whose assembly will be a mirror of the electoral will of the citizens given in the 2000 elections. That's what's relevant to us. That's what we're going to endure and what we're going to insist on. You can in your virtual reality, the virtual assembly, virtual Serbia, bring whatever laws you want, make up any excuse, find what you've done, haven't done, sleep, drink, do whatever you want, but Serbian citizens have different rules, different norms and different Serbia wants. Ladies and gentlemen, the DSS MPs can't support this bill. They can't support someone ending the election will of citizens and they won't participate. We've given amendments to this law, but unless they're adopted, of course we won't vote for this law. We, as we've done so far, will continue to defend the will of the citizens, because that's what brought us here and that's what's going to get us out of here. We know that nothing is more important than that, but citizens and states are what we're here for. It will survive both us and you. I appeal to all MPs in this House, especially those who are not in the hall holding their cards, because it is part of virtual Serbia - a card without MPs, a vote from Athens, all part of your virtual Serbia and the virtual parliament - ladies and gentlemen, this law will honor all those who steal in this assembly. All those who press the key to this bill will be accomplices to stealing and ending the election will.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25966	I would like to thank the president of the parliamentary group, and I would like to ask you to help the MPs Dragan Marsicanin and Daragan Jocic enter the hall or remove the cards. That's what I'm asking for. Anyone else want a word? [[Zagor in the O.R.]] He has the word MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25967	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, there are probably other words that can show their political dissatisfaction, that political opponents are not offended. Because as far as I'm concerned, I'm willing to hear everything, but when I talk about my political opponents, I mean their voters, and especially when I'm talking about the Democratic Party of Serbia, who were elected on the same election list, because, at least as far as those you've called such an ugly word are concerned, we're doing everything to be an MP in this House. I will not read the stenograms from the December 29th session, which discussed the law on the implementation of the Constitutional Charter and which best confirm the insomnia of everything that has been said, which challenges the authenticity of the law that we have proposed. Parties that lose political foundations or exits defeated from political duels have the right to political dissatisfaction. But we don't allow you to insult the citizens we represent as long as we represent even one of them. That's why I have to tell you that you haven't made any argument that this law could really be characterized as anti-constitutional, as opposed to any other law, as a law that breaks down the state community. We did what we could and how much we could give to that state community. Among other things, we also showed our respect by entering the Assembly Hall when the state union was declared, which apparently some others could not do, because through the declaration of that state community, they, in fact, recognized and announced their own descent from the political scene. Such a type of identification is known, but it mainly does not relate to democratic systems and democratic societies. In such societies no one has the right to say "state-it's me"; nor is "the law-it's my party". Such societies respect the congregation’s decisions. There are parliamentary majority in the congregations. That's right in this congregation. As far as she's concerned, I don't think the citizens of Serbia have any reason to be ashamed. On the contrary, given everything she's done, especially in the circumstances she's worked under, I think she deserves respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25968	As chairman, an apology to Dragan Jocic for entering with a card. The card on which the seat was empty, was the card of the MP who went out and took his card, and I will not give Dragan Marsicanin a word because he has no right to reply. You weren't in the O.R., and the card was there. You have no right to a replica, take your place. (Dear Martian, from the scene: I didn't draw the card and apologize for that. But I'm asking the president to apologize to you, 'cause there's no card at the table here either. You didn't get the word. I give you my first warning about the approach to the pay phone without the chairman's permission. (Dear Martian, from the scene: I wanted to talk to the Rules of Procedure, not about hurting the Rules of Procedure.) So, who else is looking for a word? Only a President or an authorised MP can contact the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25969	Every MP has the right to a proposal by the Rules of Procedure. If the Rules of Procedure had been broken, only the president of the parliamentary group could point out. Mr. Martian wanted to propose that the Rules of Procedure be established quorum; since he sits only two at the chair table and has three cards, to determine who sits at that table, with three cards. If I've interpreted you, Mr. Martian, all right. Otherwise, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25970	I'd like to ask the president, if he's looking for a quorum, to do so to the members of the Rules of Procedure, not the way he did it at the pay phone. So the president of the DSS parliamentary group has the right to seek the quorum, but arranged in the manner in which the Rules of Procedure prescribes it. (Dear Martian, from the scene: not wanted.) ) The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group National MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25971	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Unity Party will not support the bill on the election of representatives in the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly for several reasons: The first and the main reason why this proposal for a law on the election of MPs is harshly marred by the electoral will of Serbian citizens, expressed in the December 2000 elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, several parties and coalitions took part in these elections. The right to have representatives, or MPs in this respected home, has been acquired: one coalition and three parties. Among the three parties that received the right, which the citizens defined, that they could adequately represent was the Serbian Unity Party. She has been given the right to 14 MPs and so many and now she has, no matter how much anyone would like to see the number of Serb Unity Party MPs cut. There's more justice and law in this country. In the end, justice will win, because justice is slow, but it is available. In the end, justice always wins. On our side is also Article 88(1) point 1. The law on the election of the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia, which says - the right to office is lost when the party's membership ceases, or coalition. The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is said to be pending, so that decisions could be made at the demands of many parties to deprive MPs who have ceased their membership in political parties, or coalitions. I'm just asking, in front of the Serbian Unity Party, if there is one law, whether it applies to both MPs and committee members. It doesn't apply to you. Because, from most DOS, you take the mandates of the committees across Serbia when they leave, most often, the Democratic Party, by applying Article 88(1) point 1. Law on selecting Members of Parliament, which is properly applied both to the elections and to the removal of the mandate of the committees. If you do not believe me, I come from Pomorava, invite representatives of the Jagodin and Muprii municipalities, and you will see how the parliamentary mandates of those committees who have been excluded have ceased, or have ceased their membership in political organisations. I say, most often it was in the Democratic Party. Now a little bit about the law. Article 3 of the proposed law, proposed by the DOS parliamentary group, reads among other things: "The political parties and political coalitions and other organisations represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia participate in the mandates in the assembly." Ladies and gentlemen, what other organizations are represented in this House? I repeat, in the December 2000 elections, the right to be represented in this house was won by those political organisations and coalitions that crossed the 5% census. There are no other organisations that have then acquired the right to have MPs in this home and to pass laws, which are unfortunately most often executed by the citizens of Serbia and their standard. In Article 5 of the law, you wrote that MPs are elected by a proportion of MPs who have parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The parliamentary groups were formed after the establishment of the National Assembly. You know when it was established, in January 2001, and then the parliamentary groups counted as many as they counted, not to count now, and according to the constitution and formation of that parliamentary group, certain rights are being exercised to the number of MPs in the federal parliament, or in the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Soviet Union is concerned, you and 13 or 14 MPs are concerned, we have the right to five MPs in the federal parliament. So you won't hurt us much by trying to take away the mandate of one MP, honor and honor to that MP, and to those who want to do so and to protect you, because according to all the budgets, the Soviet Union will have five MPs in the federal parliament. Math is an exact science, otherwise I'm a professional lawyer, maybe you'll invent it in the meantime that it's a different science, so you'll do the math as it suits you. But aside from that, you count on how you think you need it. If we are already talking in this house that the speaker of the mandate is an MP, why, ladies and gentlemen, after the September elections in 2000, and then you took power in Serbia, did not advocate to change the Law on the selection of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so you asked the MP to be the bearer of the mandate and only by the resignation, by death, far away, or by some other case that makes it impossible for him to act as MPs to stop the term of office. No, you've already put people on the list in order, as predicted by the law, and now you're retroactively saying after two years that the MP is the holder of the mandate. Well, that's not gonna happen. You know, even in the Constitutional Court of Serbia, there are honest and honest people, excellent lawyers. No matter how much pressure you put on them, they will make a decision in accordance with the law, and we hope that such a decision will also be made by the Supreme Court of Serbia, no matter how much pressure they put on those people who work there. The Soviet Union will continue to fight to restore its fourteenth term by means of a legal means, as provided for by the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and to remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, states that the election and impeachment of MPs is regulated by law. Let me also remind you of the statements made by some people, primarily from CESID and other NGOs, which you very often like to quote when their statements are in favor of you; it was just a statement from CESID that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia, as it was brought, was adopted on the basis of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that it must be applied in all its provisions while it is in force. Therefore, initiate the procedure for amending the existing law, and we'll see how it goes. Finally, to conclude once again, the Soviet Union will not support this proposed law for one reason only, which coincides with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not because you think we are damaged. Take the calculators, if you don't know how to count differently, the SS has the right to five federal deputies.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25972	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25973	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the issue of the distribution of parliamentary mandates to the new assembly of the new state union, Serbia-Montenegro, has been treated by three political entities in this assembly. So the bill was submitted by the SPS, submitted by the DSS and the DOS parliamentary club - Serbia's reform, in the image and work of the second Chad. Let's talk about the first proposal -- it's not good for the simple reason why it calls for the political will of citizens not in the last elections, but in the last election. It is, therefore, those elections for the federal parliament that were in September 2000. One problem with such a proposal is the fact that the majority of Montenegro then boycotted the elections, so applying the election model simply among MPs of the new assembly would not be MPs of DPS Milo Djukanovic, who at this time, along with his coalition partners, enjoys political support from the majority of Montenegro. For this reason, such a bill simply could not come to the agenda. The proposal for the DSS election law is good and I'm sorry they didn't collect 84 signatures, and that wasn't hard, so he entered the procedure before this law entered. And this law is bad. It's here to bid whether he's signed by the DSS or someone else. I'm following some European standards, and I don't know who it's prescribed from, so maybe the only thing left is a suspicious Socialist international. Since her proposer is Comrade Chad, is that right, a member of the party now becoming a member of the Socialist International, it may be some new European standards, which we have not been able to get to know in the meantime. (Lowers from the O.R.: Mr. Chad.) Mr. Chad, I apologize to the other Chad.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25974	The People's Messenger, unless you consider the Syntagma to be esteemed, then I would ask you to address the Rules of Procedure as MPs in the Assembly, with a full name and last name. If that's what you find esteeming, then be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25975	Well, ma'am, I don't see any reason for you to be angry. At the Socialist International, they call themselves a friend, they tell me, and they sing internationals, etc. Here, and Mr. Shabic confirms it. So I don't see why you'd be angry. I find it affirmative.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25976	National MP, obviously you know the methods of communication in the Socialist International. I remind you that we are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where we are obliged to speak with respect. I repeat, since it is an unusual way of speaking from a pay phone, if you consider it respectful, go ahead, and if not, I will remind you of the obligation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the obligation of all of us to address each other with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25977	Well, Mrs. Comic, I really don't see why you're being suspicious. You can testify to my constant co-operation in every congregation debate. I've shown some co-operation, and here, that'll be confirmed by a friend of Tom's. If we want to talk about this thing exactly, and it would be good, then, referring to Article 20. The Constitutional Charter, which states that MPs in this new parliament are elected to a relatively political force in the parliaments of the Member States, means that a simple proportional account, a proportionate account, is applied, and Dont's ratio is not applied. Dont's amount is just one electoral model, which the people do not prefer, or the majority system, because in the majority system it is chosen by name and by last name. And explicitly speaking, I'm going to demonstrate this to you by a simple example. He has DOS, has the original DOS in the last December 2000 elections, won 176 mandates from the total 250 quota. Therefore write a proportion of 176:250=h:91. Unknown size is h and speaks of a parliamentary quota belonging to the original DOS. Under the new electoral law, pursuant to Article 20. Constitutional statutes, by a simple three-way rule, we calculate that DOS belongs to 64 mandates. Therefore, from the 91st term of office of the original DOS, they belong to 64 mandates. Thus, 27 mandates are available to other parties who have not been on the DOS list. Now I wonder how those 64 made 65. There's no one. There's no account that can run another mandate, except for one of your secret accounts. You'll have to demonstrate it to us. I showed you how it counts. On the other hand, from the total number of mandates belonging to the DOS, therefore 64, there are two parties that are currently not functioning within the original DOS, which are DSS and New Serbia. The DSS belongs to 16 mandates, and New Serbia has three mandates. So 16 + 3 = 19, and 64 - 19 = 45. But 45 does not make up the majority, and your government objectively needs the majority in the new federal parliament. Of the 91, 45 is not the majority, and the 47 that you made is. Therefore, 65 when you subtract 18, because there you have denied New Serbia that one mandate, unauthorized, you have made a parliamentary majority of 47 and with the overall parliamentary composition of the DPS in the federal parliament you can easily rule. I'm really surprised why you're doing this. You've shown great political skill to mix. As you have changed the political will of the citizens here, you will be able to do so with little effort in the federal parliament. You don't have to. It's simple, the lawlessness you've committed here, the law of your own free will, and you carry out it at the beginning and for the parliament of the new state community. I remind you once again, New Serbia has shown some skepticism towards the Constitutional Charter and the new state union, for the simple reason we suspect that such a state union has a future. In addition, we are required, both as legitimateists and as legalists, we respect the Constitutional Charter even though we voted against it. You don't respect the Constitutional Charter even though you voted for it. Furthermore, it is really unacceptable for MP groups to appear as subjects of political will. MP groups do not participate in the elections. Only parties and coalitions participate in the elections. The parties and coalitions are the owners of the mandate, and they are not parliamentary clubs or groups. MP clubs are just a way of organising technical organisation within parliament, and they are formed out of the need for MPs to organise and work in parliament to be operationalised. It's what's necessary. Once again, I point out, it is impossible for one party to have two parliamentary clubs. If possible, you write it unequivocally in the Rules of Procedure. For the time being, the Rules of Procedure do not foresee such a possibility. If we are already saying that there is a National Socialist MP club, these people's socialists have a party, and therefore this could not be challenged. However, under the existing electoral law, their status is unresolved. By the way, I've had a chance to talk to parliamentarians from Western Europe. They tell me: indeed, this way of taking away the mandate is, like this, our Balkan patent. That's what we did. They say there the parties don't really have a mandate, there's an MP. Regardless of whether the electoral system is majority or proportional, it is mostly well combined in Europe, because there are electoral units. If there are electoral units, then this proportional system is well disabled. I was told that MPs can indeed act beyond their party's position and that they do not suffer any consequences in their parliamentary status. Of course, they suffer the consequences of their status in the party. The party will, of course, fire them that way, I say simply, not count on their subsequent services and they can no longer make a career. If you really approve the right to propose parliamentary groups, according to Article 5, MPs to the new federal parliament, you will come into one trouble later. You know that MP clubs here are made from opportunity to opportunity. They're like a sinkhole, you see them, you don't see them. Every time you see them, they will ask for a change in the structure of the federal parliament. Are you going to do it? Of course you won't, because it'll be a dance all the time. I suggest you accept our amendments to Article 5; I will have a chance to talk about them later. Anyway, let me say, this electoral law can be accepted, with the shortcomings it has in Article 5. The New Serbia Parliamentary Group has intervened with its amendments to this article and I hope you will be reasonable, that you will be good and I appeal to the good will of the parliamentary majority to be reasonable later on in the light of these amendments, the government is politically reasonable and to know that indeed every government has an end. That's what socialists are convinced of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25978	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica to mention in the presentation of MP Zoran Ćirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25979	Exposure to the predecessors is a sign that political circumstances in Serbia have changed. Until the day before yesterday, the show in which Velimir Ilic and Vojislav Seselj were in contact with the views, while Zoran Djindjic was in the mood, was unimaginable to call me Mr. Cirkovic and to be Comrade Toma for him. There, times change. We obviously need new choices. For 12 years, I have been politically opposed to the ideology represented by Mr. Cirkovic, attacked by him, challenged, and now I have become his friend. Mr. Cirkovic will have to make an effort to tell him that he's my friend.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25980	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zivko Selakovic, deputy president of the "Serbia" parliamentary group, and by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25981	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, draft law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly certainly deserves special attention in today's debate and adoption. The position of the Peasant Party of Serbia, including mine as the People's MP of the party, is that, like any law, this one is not pedantically and perfectly done, and as I consider a day of some great faults and shortcomings, so the proposed text of this law could be fully applied. Given that months have passed in conjecture and tension over the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, as well as the accompanying law, so there has been a problem with what one says is the quick adoption of this law on electing MPs. That is why, given that this is the final act ahead of the election of MPs and that it can then begin to operate by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, it is absurd to say that this should be rejected and thus push the state community into even worse political agony. Unfortunately, many expect it. I would also refer specifically to Articles 5 and 15. Proposal for this law, which in many public opinion and political organisations, i.e. The parties caused the biggest controversy. Article 5; for smaller parties, I think of a small number of MPs in the republic's parliament, as some criterion for determining the number of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly, it might be better to make a different proposal, as has been said these days. But I underline - looking at the general interest, not the party's personal and interest, I think this Article 5 is acceptable, because all political parties will be represented in the new assembly of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, only in another way. In particular, all MPs who have been elected, as someone says, will be representatives of the people, i.e. MPs in the state community Serbia-Montenegro, only this time through other political groups, which is also the main stumbling block and which is why unnecessary dust is rising at the moment. Article 15 regulates the way MPs are elected. We all know that the existing way of choosing can't choose, or vote anything at all, start with the president of the state without talking about another. I therefore believe that the election of MPs in the National Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro is quite correct when the summary list receives most of the votes of MPs at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs. I'd like to make one comment here on Article 20, although I haven't followed it properly, and maybe someone's already pointed out that, it's probably a technical error, because Article 20 says, "Article 21 solution," but the whole text applies to Article 19, so I think it's a technical mistake, and if so, it's corrected. Finally, after all I have said, the position of the Peasant Party of Serbia and my own, as deputy head of the Serbian parliamentary group, to add, the Serbian parliamentary group will vote in favour of the bill on the election of MPs of the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, so that the state union can finally function. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25982	The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25983	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, this country is in a phase where small political points and the daily political needs of individuals are more important to think about where it is going and what will be combined with the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. It is obvious that individuals and groups cannot rise from this day-to-day political need or think about what is truly the responsibility of all politicians, and especially the MPs on the political scene of Serbia. Since we've been the object of the attack for a long time, and I think it's been going on for about a year, I need to remind you of some facts. As an MP for the SPS, I was elected on the list whose carrier was Slobodan Milosevic. It is obvious that we are close to the scale of what is the true attitude of Slobodan Milosevic about all of us. But it is extremely hypocritical to use it that way and abuse it, given where it is today and what task it has, as well as what it does in trying to defend the truth when it comes to Serbia. It was hypocritical to collect 14,500 dinars for the defence of Slobodan Milosevic during the period when individuals paid extraprofits from 500,000 to 700,000 marks, and then continue to try to use his name and make protection. Since it is evident that there will be another convention very soon, about what will happen to us, at will of him, since so far he has not said a single ugly or negative sentence about us at all. And, to remind, the Socialists received 515.000 votes in 2000, and instead of analyzing at that point where 1,070,000 voters are and why they stopped voting for the Socialists in Serbia, what are their reasons for being arrested and being arrested today, we turned to the daily political needs of individuals and groups. We held the sixth extraordinary convention. He's a political fact. He wanted someone to confess to her or not. Was there anything we could have stolen? It's just a matter of work. It depends on how you are raised, how you live in the family and in your environment. It probably belongs to someone else. I don't have that virtue, and neither do my colleagues. And in particular, it was not my intention to steal someone's mandate at a time when we discussed the unification of all the Socialists, because it was evident that it would be the finals and the end, and in that conversation we offered all of our five mandates on condition that we all sat together again. Nikonius had the right to exclude four thousand people from the SPS, to privatise the socialist idea and continue to have a future with it. But these are political facts. Where's the election will? She's definitely changed, and I agree here with everyone who says the election will answer that question. But, let me remind you, the election was already in some municipalities. Are the socialists gathering again? They're gathering, of course, around the Socialist People's Party. That's why we won the election in Despotovac, Leskovac, and I'm afraid we'll win the Alibunar elections as well. Not because we are specific, but because we are just ordinary socialists; we have no more useful value and we want to exercise the right of all the Socialists, who have been in Serbia for the past 12 years, so that they can act freely politically without any political dictatorship. The fate of all of us socialists is certainly unification and the desire is to do so. Only the needs of groups and individuals, to keep the socialists of one another at a distance, by lying, by mixing, by using untrues in everyday political needs. Which way? It is evident that here, out of fundamental political issues, less important issues are put on the agenda today. Although again these days, it is rattling in southern Serbia and the question is what will happen when the branches spring, we are dealing with the personal needs of individuals. I don't think that's a fundamental political issue, nor that it's our political task. Morality; who has the right to speak about it: he who feels like a messenger of the people. I've never lost that feeling before, and I don't agree to be anyone's private MP. Knowing fellow Members of the Socialist Party, whose honesty I have no doubt, I think the end of this whole story will be our unity. Because of who is all lamenting on the political scene in Serbia that he is left-handed, there is a significant difference between left and right. The right is decadent, retrograde, classy and separates the population into layers, and that is already noticeable. The future of Serbia's youth is certainly on the left and I expect in the next elections that it will recognise it. What will happen to all of us, as we are in a very complex political moment for the state of Serbia. More important political issues are more important than ordinary political issues: it is more important to preserve the common state; to preserve the Serbian state on fundamental principles, which were discussed here during a previous period; it seems to me that this is the essence of the establishment of a joint parliament of the state of Serbia and Montenegro. We are about to draw up Serbia's constitution. The existing Constitution, to remind myself, contains a series of elements that are less important, long-lived and do not reflect the current political circumstances. It is important to create a new political relationship and create new foundations for the state community. It seems to me that many are running away from these issues, day-to-day-political foreigners, not thinking about what's waiting for us in two or three years. Where any of us will be at that moment doesn't matter at all. To remind you, in the previous period I never fought for the status of a MP, I never thought it was that important and significant. At the time of my talks with my colleagues, I offered that mandate at the will of membership, but not to individuals, and I did not intend to make it an individual's property. I humbly appreciate my contribution in the previous period, when it comes to the socialist idea, because I don't think I belong to political size, but it seems to me that it should be understood by someone else, who has a socialist idea in Serbia as a private property or private farce. The future of all political factors in Serbia is on the left or on the right. The common future is a responsibility for this country and the people. If we're aware of all the positions, I think we'll have a series of touch points. It is obvious that Serbia must come out in more important political times and move on to more important political issues. In the end, I've no intention of plowing with anyone about this, and I've been avoiding this subject so far. I don't want to open up the controversy about it, but if anyone wants to have a choice, I'm very willing to answer every question; and I'm running away from these issues and I don't want the Socialists to be the subject of this debate and this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25984	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The Party of Socialist Party of Serbia, MP Zarko Obradovic, injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 97(2), holds the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25985	Dear fellow MPs, I went out to advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 97(2), and what was said from the previous speaker about the Socialist Party of Serbia, which is a notorious lie. The Socialist Party of Serbia did not exclude 4,000 members. She's ruled out as many members as she can get her hands on two hands and that's a fact. Because that's what people say in public all the time, and they keep pouring ashes and talking about the truth. Secondly, as the group of MPs did and what it wanted to do with the Socialist Party of Serbia, it best shows documentation submitted to the ministry that is listed in the register of authorised persons. I'll talk about it later, I'm just stating the fact that these signatures and documents were forged. So much for that. When it comes to the mention of President Milosevic, it is indeed a shame to shed crocodile tears and even mention him in the context of what has been so far. When it comes to the party, it is a very simple matter: municipal committees and elected delegates gave their final word on it. Who was at Congress saw and who didn't know. He wishes to confess, and he who will not go so far up for him. There were 2,235 delegates present, more than 90% of the elected delegates. There is talk of representing the political party and the availability of mandates. No one's naive around here. We know, and you know that mandates have been preserved to assist DOS in what DOS needs, to provide support to the government and to pass the necessary laws. To speak of interest, care, a common state, and to vote to break up Yugoslavia, a great political skill needs to retain the expression of the face, and speak so. And not to mention the support given to the government to vote the budget. We know, nobody's stupid. The government would not have fallen that evening, for it would likely have provided a congregation majority at a next meeting. The government would have fallen politically. But the mandate of the five MPs was directly conditioned by the DOS support. They gave DOS support to vote that budget. And not just that. These MPs have made it possible for the Constitutional Affairs Committee to deal with the interpretation of the Constitution, and it is not competent to do so. They gave support to select Mrs. Micic as V.D. Serbia's president, a function the Serbian Constitution does not know. Now we're talking about mutual care, common good, with this and that. In the second part of my presentation, I will mention exactly what is one of the MPs, whose mandate is the Socialist Party of Serbia, why these mandates are disputed and why they should belong to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25986	National MP Stevan G. Guduric. You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and now you've caused a replica. Instead of looking for a replica, you got it. So, MP Stevan G. Guduric. You have reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and have not asked for a replica, so that I may not allow you to do so. You asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica. Here you are, MP, replica to the presentation of Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25987	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I use a replica of Mr. Obradovic's offensive expressions because when we talk about who's legitimate and who's not and who's in any way coming into the 37-man parliamentary group, I understand at that meeting of the Executive and Chief Committee that I came because the environment from which I strongly beat everyone else in all elections so far. Why not? Neither is the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25988	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25989	If you, Mr. Martian, as you throw yourself out of the bench were so up-to-date when you were sitting behind your back, it would look a lot different. It's all internal stuff. Therefore, I understood that I came to the parliamentary bench because the end, from which I came, always brought victory to the Socialists, and I understood that some of them came here for some very different reasons, including Mr. Obradovic. I didn't understand that we got so convincingly at the Savawedding, that he would, by the same criteria as I, arrive at this Parliament. At every moment I stand behind what I say, I stand behind the fact that if we talk about some kind of world's will, the Socialist Party of Serbia, these exclusions on two fingers of one hand, we don't need to lie from this pay phone. These hands could not count how many people you have excluded and how many municipal boards you have sent to some decisions of the executive board, which are not in accordance with the statute, you have come upon. Also, all that is happening on Serbia's political scene is an indicator of how things are. One thing is certain, if we from the Socialist People's Party are going to beat someone in the election, then we will surely win those who have privatised the Socialist Party of Serbia. It's very safe, and it's showing up, and it's just about to show. It's so certain that it's not worth it to me. It's best if we don't touch each other. My dear friends, if we don't touch each other, then we don't touch each other, and if we want to touch each other, then we'll talk facts. Not to use time, this law is such that we'll probably talk a lot about it, because these 70 amendments will be something to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25990	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25991	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 97(2). Mrs. Comic has injured the Rules of Procedure because she has given her word to an MP who is not president of the parliamentary group. It's very clear here that "... The right of replica has the president of the parliamentary group." We heard a while ago who's the president of the parliamentary group. One more thing, I really don't understand -- one dimension of the story that these people are excluded from the SPS, and another dimension is the story that they started their own party. Instead of talking about their party, about what they do, they talk about the SPS all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25992	I would ask you to read the Rules of Procedure carefully in cases where democratic mechanisms, such as restricting the right of the chairman and forcing the chairman to treat all MPs equally, are carried out through all members of the Rules of Procedure. It is clearly stated in Article 96(2) that the infringement of the Rules of Procedure does not consider the decisions of the President of the National Assembly to be made on the basis of the discretionary powers provided for in this Rules of Procedure. It also applies to the giving of replicas. Otherwise, despite the fact that you had no basis for calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Stevan Ž. Guduric has the authority of the president of the parliamentary group for this point, delivered to the Secretary of Parliament. (Zarko Obradovic: I am not satisfied with your response and I ask that the Administrative Committee meet. You do not have the right to meet the Administrative Board, as you are calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is the discretionary authority of the chair. The Rules of Procedure say that discretionary powers are not considered an injury by the chairman. In the name of tolerance, Mr. Radovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25993	Mrs. Comic hurt the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the provisions of Rule 96(6) of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the Administrative Committee be made known. We have an interesting situation here: we have an authorised representative of an MP group and one who is deputy head of the parliamentary group, so compared to who needs to, he comes out to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25994	Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The promoter doesn't want a word. Do any of the other authorised participants, since they have the right to move to order, want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to a debate in order of MPs according to the application for a word in principle to review the law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. The first to be reported was MP Vladimir Garcevic, followed by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25995	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, we are today in the process of considering one of the essential points of further functioning of Serbia-Montenegro's newly created state. Surely we weren't satisfied with that country that was created, but between the two evils - the separation of Montenegro and some extension of the search for a solution in the future, we have defined that this is less evil. Everyone has the right to their own opinion and view. Dear Socialists, I think it's time for individuals to break up more, on the one hand and on the other. Left orientation is our future. Dear Zarko, you sent orders to throw me out of the window, whether you or those others; you had orders in India, Belgrade and the flat village. You've maligned a common membership. Therefore, the party's leadership should end more with the attack, because the Socialists and the Socialists' ideas are above you and above all of us. (President: I ask the MPs to listen with respect to the speaker, and the speaker to return to the agenda topic. ) Here are fellow MPs who deserve respect, who carry an advanced idea with them, and we are obliged, and not only by the Socialists, but also by the others, to work in the interests of Serbia and Serbia's citizens. Those who are not ready, let them seek other ways. This idea and this Rules of Procedure, we'll back it up. I mean, on October 5th, they all ran away and asked me to come home from school to go to the list. I am grateful to the leadership of the Socialist Party of Serbia who put me on the list, but I have put my authority in my city, as well as every single one. You have no right to take away what I have done and created in my city, not you, Zarko, not Angelkovic, not another.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25996	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, a replica. I ask the National Assembly in silence and respect to listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25997	Without a doubt, DOS and the Democratic Party enjoy this most, as they know what it looks like when problems arise in relations within the party. However, this is about the fact that the SPS is denied the right to have its mandates. A colleague who spoke before me told a notorious lie and was not worth talking about, but, for his sake, I considered my duty to go out and say it publicly. What gatherings, what coppers, what other things. When someone tries to get inside their own party, falsifying data, taking over party management, and then giving a moral lecture, it speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25998	This was a replica. You don't have the right replica. Excuse me, MP, if you'll excuse me. [[A voice from the bench: I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] There's a word from MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u25999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, and the others who are here by the will of the Administrative Committee, and not by the election will of the citizens, I would agree with one finding in the opening section, that the essence of this law that we are talking about today is politically conflicting. Unfortunately, it is not only politically conflicting, it is conflicting with both law and justice, and with the electoral will of the people, both with the people and with the intelligence. The conflict is the essence of this law, i.e. the law is conflicting with itself. Look, Article 3 says that political parties and political organisations are participating in the assembly's mandate distribution, while Article 5 says MPs are elected in proportion to the number of MPs who have MPs, etc. Today, on the Legislative Committee, I heard another beautiful thought about what the electoral will of citizens is and whether it is determined only in the elections or between elections. I'd like to hear how it determines the electoral will of the citizens between the elections. It, however, is changing, because the political map is changing, that is, related in society and so much faster if the government misrepresents its function. But this increases conflicts in society and therefore serves to reduce conflicts, to reduce tensions and to adapt the political map and relations in parliament to relations in society. What are the relationships in our society? I'm sure those relationships don't keep MPs together. Just look at the election results, especially at the bar the last few days, and then you'll find such paranoid headlines in newspapers, such as "The Night Cut of Dopers," I won't say in what city. It's just the election will of the citizens. This election will of the citizens is exactly what we are trying to change, or manipulate by day. This law is obviously based on one clearly set task. The task is to do a method of obtaining a congregation majority in the congregation. In doing so, legal norms don't matter at all. This law is proof of that. The parliamentary groups, I'm sorry, are merely technical assistance for the functioning of parliament, and certainly not the owners of the mandate. The mandate gives people to parties and coalitions in the elections. And, change and manipulation of parliamentary groups between the two election cycles certainly does not reflect the will of the citizens. So, the people didn't choose MP groups, especially the phantom groups. The tendency for the assembly majority from this parliament, as it is, to copy parliament or the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly to represent a typical manipulation of citizens' will. Such manipulation by the will of the citizens, as I said earlier, leads to a conflict society. The conflict, I guess, is enough for this society. That is why, on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I appeal to the adoption of amendments to order these laws, which will be respected as a criterion of results from the December 2000 elections, regardless of what is said here, in the opening statement, that these results cannot be accepted as criteria. Then what are the other criteria? Other criteria would be new elections. However, here some new choices are afraid of the devil of the incense. When it comes to parliamentary mandates, we have had a terrible transformation. At first, in this congregation, I'm sorry, with the MPs wiped the floor, they changed faster and more often than some change their underwear. Now, all of a sudden, MPs became sovereign owners of their mandates. Under the same electoral law that hasn't been amended, such an act, ladies and gentlemen, leads to the deepening of the conflict, which is not good for this society and leads to what we from New Serbia are sure to do, because if we were carriers of October 5th, we will be the bearers of a new movement for October 6th.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26000	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. The first registered speaker in the afternoon session is Zoran D. Nikolic, and after that, MP Milos Lukic [[After break - 15.45.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of today's session in the afternoon's debate in principle according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word regarding the law on the election of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament. Before I give my word to the first registered speaker, I would like to inform you that the 39th session of the Justice and Administration Committee will be held at 5:00 p.m. on the second floor. So that we can work on the Rules of Procedure, I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to work on. I understand we have a quorum to work with. There's a word from MP Zoran D. Nikolic, not in the O.R. ) The word has a People's MP Milos Lukic, followed by a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic. I ask the MPs, who enter the hall after the quorum has been established, to enter without distraction from order, without incursions, and with the possibility that the MP who received the word should be addressed to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26002	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the bill on electing MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, one issue is being passed through all discussions all day today: whether it violates the electoral will of citizens through the application of this law. I will state several reasons in favour of violating the electoral will of the citizens. First of all, citizens voted in favour of the DOS Coalition -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica -- and no one disputes that. No one expected this coalition to last so briefly, because we saw the MPs elected on this list, as well as the committees in the bar, swear, and even in the church, which is why this religious institution is significantly compromised. Which is why they received that percentage of votes clearly; because it has been promised that Yugoslavia will, above all, be preserved; then Kosovo will remain in Serbia-Yugoslavia. After that, we had a promise that six billion dollars were coming, that they were already at the border and that they had already arrived, as far as I could tell. Then we have a promise to revive production, and statistics show something else entirely. We also had a promise that there would be foreign investments, that we would get the rule of law, legal certainty. A new constitution has been promised. The election was promised within 12 to 18 months after October 5th, which was declared a revolution. It was that in a year, a year and a half, new elections would be held at all levels. It was also a referendum against Slobodan Milosevic and the previous regime, which no one tried to dispute. This is when students were abused, the Resistance was abused, trade unions, refugees and many other categories of population were abused. Now Serbia's citizens are most disappointed among those who voted for DOS, because, of course, others who did not vote for DOS did not hope for anything better. We are witnessing that the Constitution is being violated at every turn. We have an example in this assembly, where several laws have drastically violated the Constitution, such as the Omnibus Law, and also the Constitutional Charter, which was adopted here in its own way; it has practically annulled the federal constitution and violated many of the provisions of the Republic Constitution. The consequences are already visible. We have growing separatist tendencies in eastern Serbia by Bulgarians, Romanians, and then we have an example that Vojvodina is already acting as a separate state, bringing its constitution, its laws. The Raska area is also waved. It is clear that the electoral will of the citizens is certainly not what it was when it entered this congregation. With this proposed solution, we have general legal uncertainty, because we have one absurdity. The centre for entry into this assembly was 5%, and the censorship for forming a five-seat parliamentary club, so we have an absurd situation that one SPO, for example, who did not enter this assembly with three and a few percent votes, is marginalised in relation to some parties that would not get a half percent that went to the polls on their own. In any case, the Serbian Unity Party enters the joint state parliament with five MPs, regardless of whether mathematics will be such as to count that we have 14 or 13 MPs. But in any case, we are against the fact that this solution remains, because it would mean that the race for MPs, shopping and sales continues; and whenever it is necessary to preserve power, it will be a phenomenon. We also advocate respecting the citizens' will expressed in the December 2000 elections, when MPs with four lists entered this assembly who had the courage to participate in the elections themselves and who received their MPs. That is why the Serbian Unity Party cannot support this proposal, but has tried to remove these shortcomings, which are obvious, with its amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26003	The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by MP Zoran R. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, even during a discussion on the adoption of the so-called Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as the law on the implementation of the Charter, presented its arguments against a number of solutions under the law. Some also referred to the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, above all, with a fundamental interest in deciding who would be the MPs of the assembly. The Proposer here foresees the possibility that MP groups in the Republic Assembly decide on whom, based on the budget through Dont's method, they will propose, based on the quota they received, to call the assembly. In this capacity, MPs of this assembly or MPs who are already in the Federal Parliament may be present. We do not know, and neither does the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the Parliamentary Group as a Proposer of MPs. In the election, when parliament of the Republic Assembly was elected 2000. In years, four electoral lists received mandates: DOS, the Socialist Party, the Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian Unity Party. Only they could delegate, because this is a pure delegate system, MPs to the Serbia-Montenegro Parliament. Everything else is not the will of the citizens. If DOS is given 176 terms of office, let the number of MPs it belongs to share with its coalition partners the way it thinks they should and how they can agree. I cannot have some non-existent parliamentary groups, such as some National Socialists, some "Serbia", some Demochrist Party, and I don't know how many already there are here, I don't think anyone knows how many MPs there are now, to delegate some MPs to that parliament. In addition, Article 16 discusses the vote of the summary electoral list and is said, among other things, that the Republic Election Commission, based on the voting minutes, consists of a report submitted to the National Assembly and a public vote for the summary list, using an electronic voting system. Who will sign that record, who stands behind that record and what if the Republic Election Commission does not watch the direct transfer of this assembly, and we have been in a situation multiple times to use fake cards. And not to mention the fundamental problem of this House, which is sitting in it by people who are not MPs and do not have the right to vote. Will the republic's electoral commission stand behind the minutes and the number of MPs who voted to elect MPs for Serbia-Montenegro's parliament. The whole of our discussion is that if this law is already passed, the law on election of MPs for the state union must return to the fact that only those who submitted the electoral list, who participated in the elections, can propose MPs, that they cannot possibly be parliamentary groups. In this regard, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted all amendments and although we are in principle against the delegate system, if the law has already been passed, it should at least be corrected in this way so that citizens' will still be designed in that parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26005	The word was requested by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on selecting MPs for the assembly of the state union that you have offered, will be undemocratic, illegal and illegal. He is undemocratic already by the fact that the elections are indirect. There's no democracy in indirect elections. It's a democratic political theory that's already cleared up a long time ago. Only direct elections can be democratic. In Europe, the principle of exclusive acceptance of direct elections applies. What you're applying here, it's like when the Americans offered the Indians glass beads for their gold. The irons, the irons of Novakovic, that's what the iron is called in Thessaloniki. Why weren't you allowed to go to direct elections? Because you're afraid of the will of the people. You are aware that there is nothing good to expect for yourself in these elections, and we understand that. If democracy can't be useful to you for the preservation of power, you'll rather end democracy than get out of power. We know you, that's who you are. Why is this gonna be illegal? Because you have questioned the people's will expressed in the 2000 elections. First of all, it's about elections for the state community. If they are already organised on an indirect basis, according to a key established based on the results of some previous elections, it would have to be the key to the previous federal elections. You have abolished the federal state, you say there are no more legal consequences of federal elections, but then it was meant to be the only key to the republican elections. And you made papaziania. The MPs from the republic's elections may, as well as from the federal elections, which you have not inserted into the AVNOJ council. Why can't the council of the Second AVNOY? May I? Then why isn't it in the law? That's understood. You didn't provide for the law, and you might want to, as you're not required by the law to steal other people's parliamentary mandates, but you do it if you want to. That's your logic. So there's no legal consistency here. If indirect elections are put in place, then their foundation must be solid. The election may be the basis for the AVNOJ's second session. This was done by communist party cells on the ground, there was no choice. The foundation may be the last federal elections since September 2000, as well as the December 2000 republican elections, but cannot be a mixed foundation. You can't build a skyscraper, you can't build a part of the foundation to be of armored concrete, you can build a piece of brick, you can build a piece of broken wood, you can build a piece of glued straw. He can't, and that's exactly what you've done with a legal project like this. Furthermore, here we have a statement from the legislator that there is a discrepancy with political practice from the previous 13 years. One is the discontinuity of political practice; it happens every time the government changes. It's political discontinuity, but it's not legal discontinuity. Legal discontinuity exists only, this is from a stenogram, when you abolish the previous electoral law. You haven't abolished it yet, and it's a valid law. This law, which you are now passing, cannot be older than the previous electoral law for the republican elections, because it is a generic law. It refers to all elections for the Republic Assembly, and this is the back of the specialis. It applies only to these elections, because the Charter already stands next, if it is a state union at all, it will be direct. I know you like back specialis, but smart countries are afraid of back specialis, avoiding them as much as possible. You say you're tying these elections to the will of the people of December 2000, but also to what was going on in the meantime. In the meantime, there was only crime and the worst kind. This is Article 88. The law on the election of MPs, which is clear, ends the term of office before the end of time if its membership in the political party or coalition on whose election list is elected as MP. The moment his membership in the political party ceases, he remains without a parliamentary mandate. All earlier opposition parties stood up for this principle. Why? Because the socialists used to take our mandates. And to you, Cedomir Jovanovic. What was your name at the C Market, Radulovic. They stole his mandate, so he defected to New Democracy, so they stole another mandate. They stole Batic's mandate and something else from the Democratic Party of Serbia. He stole it himself with the help of the Socialists because they didn't want to take it apart. It was in the DSS, Batic was your MP here, a prominent MP, you swore to him, only you seem to have no historical memory. They kidnapped radicals, kidnapped SPO and some other parties. At that time, however, the legal provision was much more vague. That theft was easier than it was today. All opposition political parties insisted precisely on this provision. I have to tell you a secret: before we handed this law into the procedure, in October 2000, I had consultations with Zoran Djindjic and Cedomir Jovanovic and they fully supported the law, because the law was in full compliance with what all the Serbian opposition had demanded in the past ten years. It's no longer a secret. It wasn't even a secret back then. I told them something else -- don't accidentally get attacked, because evil could happen, and they did, after all, try it on my warning, one crowd in front of the Assembly, so the first bullet in the air was enough to get the crowd out. Is that what happened, Chad? No Chad quite developed historical memory, but it doesn't matter. This is the law around which a consensus of radicals, socialists, DOS and SPS has been reached. This isn't the law of the old regime and old times. We radicals were the bearers of the initiative, and the four most powerful political groups were uniquely behind this law. Under this law, extraordinary December elections have been called. Don't say you're making a discontinuity with this. Then it's discontinuity with Djindjic and Chad Jovanovic, and then you need to be laxtrated from here. Is that what you say, Gordana? Something about a chandelier reminds me of that chandelier, that chandelier. Whenever they say lustration law, I see you hang people on chandeliers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26007	Since the MP referred the question to the chairman of the Assembly, I am obliged to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26008	After, when I'm done. This isn't a quiz to answer my question right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26009	Since we both respect the Rules of Procedure, I'll answer you now. The lustration process implies, after the law has been passed, subjecting the examinations by the authorised commission of all the procedures of those who have been in public affairs. The law is in the process of the Serbian Parliament and only when it is passed, then there will be discussions on how all those who need to be in the lustration process will be subjected. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as soon as you ask the question, the chairman is obliged to answer. (The chairman turned off the microphone. People's MP, have we made clear what a lustration procedure is? Please proceed with your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26010	According to the Rules of Procedure, you had no right to interrupt me, except when the business provisions were fulfilled. In order for you to answer me, you have to take your word for it, leave it to the other vice president to run the session, go out for the pay phone and answer me, not like this. You abuse the seat of the chairman of the National Assembly so that they can take advantage of me. That really doesn't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26011	In cases where the MP speaks to the chairman, the MP is obliged to listen to the chairman and no one has the right to interrupt the speaker except the chairman. It's by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Go ahead with your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26012	This really doesn't make sense. If you stop me again, I won't know what I was going to say. No more. When I ask you a question, I'm not asking you as chairman, but as a prominent MP and a respected lawyer with a proven reputation, even though you haven't finished law school. You know so much better right than those who have finished. You see, these are the reasons for illegality. When the people voted in September 2000, they voted in favour of the Federal Assembly. When he voted in December, he voted in favour of the Republic Assembly, given the jurisdiction of the Republic Assembly. If he wanted to vote for future federal MPs back then, then he should have been told, told, and then his will would have looked different. The worst thing is when you're making this artificial combination -- I can also make babies, I can make frogs, I can make frogs out of the line of grandmothers, so much and so much, so much from the order of frogs. But what you're going to call that mixture after, that's the problem. It's impossible to mix until you mix them. It takes a mixer to create a mixture. You know, I have to explain this plastic to you, because it's about big legal problems, and I feel like you don't understand these problems, and you don't have enough will to get into them. Further, you say, "The distribution of mandates in the Assembly is attended by political parties and political coalitions, and by other organisations represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." This is Article 3. What does that mean? Who can be represented in the National Assembly by political parties, coalitions and other organisations? Only the one who went to the election. If the union goes to the election, the church can go to the election. Anyone who meets the legal requirements and goes to elections, gets a certain percentage of the mandate, can be represented, but can't have political parties that didn't participate in the elections at all. That's the problem. The party participates in the elections, either on its own or within the coalition. If the coalition in the meantime broke down, as was the case with DOS, it's your business, we don't interfere with that. If you had predicted by contract, and not as far as I know, who leaves the coalition will be without a mandate, then you would have the right to remove his MPs. But you predicted by contract that every owner of his mandate, that's your contract. Someone tasteless this morning called for experience with Nebojsa Covic and Selakovic. Nebojsa Covic and Selakovic had a contract -- the first two years Covic's MP in the Assembly was this lady, the second two years Selakovic's MP, or he himself, because his entire party makes him. Covic wanted to play him, cheat on him, so that his candidate, his MP, stayed for four years. This one complained, the Election Commission and the Administrative Committee found that there was a contract, that the contract was valid; last two years, Covic's MP left, Selakovic's MP came, he himself as the only member of his party. So there was no dispute. However, in Article 5, you say: "Employees are chosen by a proportionate number of MPs who have parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". This is where the question of parliamentary groups is raised. It is clear from this Rules of Procedure who can form a parliamentary group: a party that has participated in the elections can be a coalition that has participated; and the coalition can tear itself apart into several parties that have created it and formed several parliamentary groups; but they cannot renegade from one party, which form a new party, to form a parliamentary group. We, Serbian radicals, could now form four parliamentary groups. (A voice from the O.R.: Who's defending you? ) You are now easily speaking for who is defending you, but that means that four bosses would have the right to speak for twenty minutes, then four groups per minute, etc. Then you'd make chaos here again. Not according to the Rules of Procedure. Then how can five apostates from one party be singled out, register a new party and you recognise it as a parliamentary party. (Kedomir Jovanovic: New Party.) It is a new party, but it is not parliamentary, it was not in the elections. And what about the parties that were in the federal elections, so now you don't give them? The SPO alone won one term, but one mandate, the JUL was in a coalition with the SPS, but the SPO won one mandate on its own, now cannot be parliamentary, and Ivkovic formed the party yesterday, and then it was a double parliamentary party. You know, it's useful to you, but it's too small for you to see how dangerous the serious consequences are. You're destroying the legal order for a small benefit. It's a small benefit, because it can be measured for months. They need you for a few votes here, and then what? Then you'll all be changled, which means hanged by a chandelier, which you did because there is no worse violation of constitutional rights and freedom of man and citizen. We'll take a nice list and we'll see who voted for this kind of thing, it'll be changled, if there's enough chandeliers, and I doubt there'll be enough chandeliers, since the state doesn't have enough money to retire. I call upon you not to be hasty with this. As it is, to correct this and to comply with the basic principles of the constitutional order, to choose only MPs from those parties who have proved their legitimacy in the elections. (A voice from the O.R.: We'll go with the coalitions.) With coalitions? If the coalitions have fallen apart, let each go on its own, that's normal, that comes out of this. If you have an agreement with each other, show us an agreement that you can kick someone out of the coalition, that the discard pulls away the loss of mandate and everything is fine; if you have such an agreement. As far as I know, you haven't even registered your coalition as a political organization, as much as my memory serves. If you had registered as the Vojvodina Coalition in the last term that was registered... Yes, Vesenov cheated on Chanko, but these mutual frauds are their business, for us it was legal - if registration and everything right, everything from the Justice Department, all court-certified. It was clean for us, and the fact that they're cheating on each other, that's their thing, that I would go into it all the time. I know both of them, I wouldn't trust both of them to have one nut on me, let alone run the country, but that's your thing to whom you trust. So these are your reasons. ). You know, Shandor, who I'm at peace with, no one puts it together alive anymore. Why this isn't legal - this law is not legal because it puts into question already existing system laws. This law calls into question the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. You can't, this law can't align your violation of the electoral law, because this election law is older, it's more general. His degree of generality is incomparably higher than the degree of the generality of this law. The law on selecting MPs is a small constitution. The election of MPs shall be treated in constitutional law. It's not parliamentary law, it's constitutional law. What you are bringing here now would be, in some sense, in parliamentary law, as well as in the assembly offices. So it's in any case a lower degree of generality and a lower degree of legal force. Even if in the legal procedure of this law you would now predict that this and that member of the electoral law change, that should be strictly stated here. Then this law would get a higher degree of community, and you don't mention it. If you pass this law, you have two conflicting laws in legal practice. The older one - the older one is the Law on the selection of MPs. Unfortunately, we don't have a Constitutional Court. This morning someone made a statement that this law on the election of MPs was challenged in the Constitutional Court, and then someone said, I think, Cedomir Jovanovic, that the Constitutional Court challenged him. That's not true. Someone challenged the Constitutional Court, and that doesn't mean anything. You can challenge anything, you can argue that I am alive in front of the Constitutional Court, but I will live until that moment until the Constitutional Court declares me dead, so perhaps after that. Just because someone's arguing doesn't mean anything. Don't play real. This legal science is five thousand years old and not everyone can play with it like that, who hasn't even learned about it. There are certain principles that must always be consistent and coherent. Otherwise, you're making a mess of the legal order, total chaos. It's a far-fetched legal order, and we're getting worse. There's been a lot of falinky before, a lot of problems, but it's getting worse and worse. You bring laws of retroactive force, you bring laws of reckoning with political opponents, you bring these, you bring such things, lustrations, omnibuses, miracles... (loud from the hall: Shinobuse)... I wouldn't be surprised if you even installed the Shinobus in the legal order. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I like to make fun of this payphone so I can draw your attention to what I'm saying, because otherwise no one here listens. The parliamentary majority comes on a mission to raise their hands to vote and nothing else interests them, but that's why the state breaks down, the state is being destroyed. Parliament must work on other principles, you must pass laws that will suit you when they change their roles one day. I have repeatedly warned the Socialists from this and from the Federal Assembly's pay phone that they must pass laws that will fit them one day when the relationship of power changes. It did not enter their heads; especially those -- election units; and 27, and 29 election units in federal and republican elections. And now everything's changed. Now that someone suggested it, they'd faint. When it was right for them, they brought it in. Don't do worse things and do them. And tomorrow, when the power ratio changes, someone's gonna set up yours like that. When are we going to get out of this kidnapping of MPs and MPs? There have been two serious crimes, very serious crimes. A bomb was dropped on Zivko Selakovic's house and the mandates of MPs were kidnapped. They're both very serious crimes. In my opinion, it is a much more serious crime when someone, after the elections, artificially alters the people's will by taking parliamentary mandates to parliamentary parties, than when someone throws a bomb at a house, especially when there were no wounded or killed. In my opinion, it's a much more serious crime, and that's two serious crimes. (Glass from the O.R.: Dosed bomb. She's probably dosed. I said, if the government doesn't find out who dropped that bomb by the end of this week, we immediately know it's the government, because Zivko Selakovic was under police protection. It's not the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26013	It's 20 minutes, MP. You've had ten minutes in dialogue, and three minutes added to you, that's 23 minutes in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26014	Before, Jovan Glamocanin was under police protection, and Miroslav Dereta, and that Dusan Boskovic, and diverse. They were under police protection. And where they are today - shame on them, children, and grandchildren, etc. You know, all the excuses here remain written down for all time, if someone again bulldozers the revolution and burns the archives here, as it was burned in the Federal Assembly. That's what's left of it. Only what's written remains. That particular interest of yours, which forced you to break the laws, will be quickly forgotten, and the fact remains that you violated the Constitution, that you violated the laws, that you took parliamentary mandates, that you artificially created the congregation's majority, that you were so artificially anti-constitutional in power, etc. A whole series of negative facts remain in your political will.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26015	The speaker, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26016	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, so that everything else is not in a straight joke, since it seems that only a joke can be politically broad enough for some MPs to perform for the assembly speaker, I would like to tell you that no one in this assembly debate has so far listed a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that has been questioned, broken, even though it is disputed by the law on the election of MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly. No single member of the Republic Constitution has been questioned by this law. From which legal act this law draws that kind of legitimacy - from the Constitutional Charter. It comes from the Constitutional Charter, not the Republic Constitution. Article 20. The Constitutional Charter very precisely defines the frameworks in which we, as Parliament, can and can move without questioning the very Constitutional Charter. The member said MPs are chosen in proportion to the number presented in the republic's parliament, that the elections are indirect, not democratic, but indirect. We can talk about whom more or less corresponded indirectly than direct elections. We as the Republic Parliament must respect the documents we have adopted. We adopted the Constitutional Charter with Article 20, and thus defined the framework in which we move. The question of the electoral will and the legitimacy of this law in the part in which the delegation of MPs, or the right to that delegation, is defined, is also not questionable. There is no man in the Serbian Parliament who did not directly or indirectly participate in the election campaign held in December 2000 and who did not draw the right to be on the list. So any MP sitting in the Republic Parliament today can be proposed as a representative of parliament, or a party proposing it through a parliamentary group in the Serbian-Montenegro National Community Assembly. In addition to the republican MPs, MPs from the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic can do so. Not based on the September 2000 election results, when elections for the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic were held, but again on the political forces of the republics sending their delegation to the Serbia-Montenegro National Assembly, as it is clear that one part of Montenegro's political public did not participate in the elections. We're trying to solve problems, not make what's our reality a farce or make an even bigger problem. Those who were in power until 2000 are responsible for the political divide that appeared between Serbia and Montenegro. If they've tried such a thing to overcome, it's no longer a topic of debate. The political divide and the gap is so great that only through the Constitutional Charter can it be overcome. This solution is democratic, because democratically expressed will, or democratically, was voted in parliament. Ten months have been done on the document and the absolute majority in Montenegro stands behind the document and stands an absolute majority in the republican parliament, at least when it comes to the Constitutional Charter, and this legal legitimacy that we are talking about comes from it. As for the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, in no way can I correspond to one another. This law came out as a decision of the previous regime, it is true that we have been consulted on this, but only one question: was 24, as far as it was foreseen by the 1993 law. Years, or one constituency; we have always advocated a proportional system and one electoral unit as an opposition; that is what we have accepted. The essence of the law was one electoral unit. Article 88. The law, which gives the right to a coalition, or party to have a mandate, also makes me think that we should seriously consider it as a coalition. I think the party's proportional system must retain some control of its mandate. The Copenhagen document doesn't rule out such a thing as a possibility. There is parliamentary control of the mandate in modern democracies in Europe, and we are in favour of such a thing, but in a situation where the parties appear in the elections and they are the bearers of the election campaign, if it is a proportional electoral system. If it's a majority electoral system, then let it be MPs. Since individuals are elected here and it is clear that there are serious problems within individual parliamentary groups and that one can seriously consider that his right has been questioned, if in a month, two or three MPs think to change the parliamentary group. We want to make something like that legal impossible. How? By modifying the status of Members. This is the legal discontinuity of Article 19 in relation to Article 88. Law on selecting MPs. It's not political, it's political, it doesn't mean anything, it's a declaration. Legal discontinuity is shown through a change in status that is confirmed by law. When we as a parliament, and I believe we will, adopt this document, it will not be possible for the MP to move from one party to another, so that the party will take away his mandate. So take care of those you choose, and afterwards DOS will not be able to take over from other parties, nor will other parties be able to take over DOS mandates. Nor has that been the case so far. I think that's the most concrete way to confirm the kind of legitimacy that must exist in this decision. We draw this legitimacy from the Constitutional Charter, not the Republic Constitution. In addition to all the difficult words that mark our debate, it would be good for someone to say, who is a member of the Constitution injured. It would be good for someone to say that this parliament has delegated its representatives to the Greater Republic for ten years and who it was when it was the bearer of business. Always a group of MPs. We can also agree to propose an amendment allowing three MPs to propose candidates, but most will again decide on the character of a delegation that goes to the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly. There is no way that Serbia's political majority can become a minority in the National Assembly. So behind the story of democracy, of legality, of legitimacy is actually an attempt to bring chaos from this parliament that has been defeated, but that exists into this new one. That's impossible because we don't politically agree to it. We are ready to talk, and only one party has been damaged by this division of mandates. That's the SPS. We can ask who the SPS is today. Are these MPs of Mr. Ivkovic, who are still awaiting the Supreme Court's decision, whether it is the SPS of Mr. Angelkovic, whether it is someone third, it is a political damage that has resulted from the dissociation in your party. We'd like to help solve it, but it's not possible in any way. This is maximum, and I think it's clear that everyone but the SPS has no argument for what they're saying. The mandates, both in the case of other opposition parties and in the case of DOS, remain at the level at which they are at no matter who the promoter is. The withdrawal of the term of office is not possible because of a decision by the Constitutional Court to open a debate on the constitutionality of a member of the law that allows such a thing. That's the clearest thing. I don't see any reason for any new tensions on this matter. Perhaps it would be more correct to engage in an analysis of the members of this law and see what is controversial that can change. We cannot pass a law that will make the majority a minority in the second congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26017	The word has the People's MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26018	Ladies and gentlemen, we as a parliamentary group and as an SPS in this House for the sake of this law, following the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, have proposed a law that would imply that the electoral will of Serbian citizens is respected in the September elections for the federal parliament. Given that this is the parliament of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, at the level of what is a factual continuation or parliamentary life at the level of the former federal state, it would be most logical to take the number of parliamentary mandates or the voter's will of the Serbian citizens in September. Of course, here we learned that this was not done because of the fact that a number of political parties in Montenegro did not go to elections, so in that case the political parties would be damaged. Of course, we don't care about that, and it doesn't make any sense. This is about the Republic Parliament and the obligation of the Republic Parliament to adopt that law that it thinks is the most honest and correct towards the citizens of Serbia. Of course, the more favourable version of this was something that we in the whole debate on the Constitutional Charter represented, which is to go to direct elections. It is said here that there is no need, because the indirect elections in some way are the representation of Serbian citizens, in principle of a fair approach to how many citizens voted for what political option, and that it has been two years since the last parliamentary elections. I remind all Serbian lawmakers and citizens that we have both had shorter mandates in both the Republic and the Federal Parliament. There were mandates in 1990 and 1992 for two years, then in May, the federal elections, and in November, again, only six months, not to say that in 1993, after a year, there were republican elections. So, the duration of one term is not limited, it is not what prevents the elections from being organised and the proper election will of Serbian citizens to vote in Serbia-Montenegro's state union. After all, if we truly want this state community to survive, then it is more logical and in a fair way that the electoral will is determined in the Serbian citizens' elections, by direct vote. Of course, the parliamentary majority has, in some ways, prevented it here, i.e. She doesn't allow it, she won't let it, she didn't agree or disagreed, however you want, to go to direct elections. There was a third solution, that the election of federal MPs or MPs in the state community was chosen as of December 2000's election will. That's not a problem either. It's not even what the law says. Here is the problem of political practice and disrespect for the previous laws of this parliamentary majority. If these previous laws were respected by this parliamentary majority, then we could talk about the proposed electoral law as something that could be acceptable even for all the political parties in this House. That's what this is about. It is said here that, therefore, the Constitutional Court does not know what to judge, so because of the fact that it does not know what the court will judge, then some current relationship of power in the Republic Parliament, rather than what the citizens of Serbia will do. If it is sincerely wanted to create a real relationship of strength in the federal parliament, in that state community, then some will of Serbian citizens must be respected. There is no respect for something that is being violated and on these rotten foundations to build a state community. This is not about what is within the Socialist Party of Serbia. What is within the SPS, the Congress has resolved, 4,000 delegates have said, voted their leadership, said what the SPS is and it is quite clear; it is clear to those who talk about it. This isn't about Article 88. A law that, like, needs to challenge the Constitutional Court, or -- the Constitutional Court has launched an initiative on that. The Constitutional Court has launched an initiative, and it can and does not have to discuss it, it can take a year or five, but in that time the law has to be respected. Imagine now that we are initiating the constitutional process, and it is launched, in terms of whether the president of Serbia i.e. whether the acting president of the Republic of Serbia is able to sign documents adopted by this assembly, or we say - has no right to sign those documents until the Constitutional Court has decided whether or not it has a right to do so. It means that no law that would be passed here would be valid. Of course you can't do that. By the time the Constitutional Court challenges the right of Natasi Micic to sign documents adopted by the Assembly, she is the acting official and performs the post. Therefore, until the moment of article 88. The law on the election of MPs does not dispute, it is valid and it must be respected. That means - it must be respected when someone resigns, that it is verified and that it can no longer be an MP, and that is 13 MPs who are not legitimate; and it must be respected if a political party throws someone out of the party, that he is no longer an MP. That's what it says now, and what's going to happen tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, so if something is decided by the Constitutional Court, then, of course, this assembly and the citizens of Serbia will act as well. according to that. Therefore, this is about previous theft, and this law seeks to make another theft, permanent theft, to ensure both the current and permanent majority in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro for the next two years. That's what this is about. And it is now being defended through a new principle -- that, for the first time, the principle of the security of MPs is introduced, that the MP is independent of his political party and the parliamentary relationship of forces, that he can, whether he is or is not excluded from the political party, remain an MP. What's the point? The promoter is fully aware that five SPS MPs, former SPS MPs, will have to give up services very quickly, and that they will have to stop the mandate. Since they are aware of these facts, then those two mandates, which will be won in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, are now ensuring by law that they will remain and thereafter in the parliamentary state union MPs DOS - Serbia's Reform; thus, this part of the DOS within the government provides a secure majority in the state community. It is the essence of this story that for the first time a democratic relationship of MPs is being created, that he is sure that he cannot be deprived of his mandate in the state community. So it's not about the MPs. It is due to the fact that if someone were expelled from the party and left without a mandate, the DOS would also be left without the parliamentary majority, which it wants to create in that parliament the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. That is why the debate here is whether or not this law can be passed, because it has long-term consequences not only for this parliament but also for the false majority that will be created at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. That is why we, as the SPS, have proposed an amendment i.e. We have proposed respect for the election will of December 2000, and in this case, it would respect what the citizens of Serbia have said -- well, not indirect elections, not the citizens have gone to elections, but the last election will check is being verified in this parliament and MPs are therefore elected. You know, the security of MPs in one parliament can be and if he's elected in the majority elections, if he was like a name and a last name, regardless of being in front of a political party, put on the list as a councilman, which was so far before this Law on Local Elections, and then he won because then his name won. And as some of the messengers here won, they didn't even know they were on the list for MPs in the SPS, so they weren't rounding them in December of the month, but they rounded my name, of course. My name was first on that list, and they were about 79 or 230, and now they're MPs and now they're sure they can be MPs. [[jamour in the O.R.]] It can't be like that. That means, of course, they were bought from the one who needed the parliamentary majority. It is of course known in the world, it is not unknown that the parliamentary majority, in order to ensure security, buy the appropriate number of MPs, but it is possible and easy when the majority elections are, when the MP is a political party and the MP is a citizen by winning as a name and last name; and when he is in a group of 250, then he is a political party MP and there is a very clear thing; it was appropriate for you when you were an opposition, and of course now I am absolutely certain that you are fully aware that it is only politically correct, only legally correct, but it is important for you to provide a parliamentary majority in the state community of Serbia-Montenegro, and therefore you have proposed this law, which is objectively not at the will of the citizens, nor of the political mood, nor in the interest of this assembly or the future of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26019	The word has a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26020	Today, the most controversy has obviously raised the question - who should be the owner of parliament's mandate. Whether they should be political parties, or coalitions, or whether they should be MPs. The DSS also believes this is what it proposed in its draft law, which is not put into practice, and also in its amendments to which it will be discussed in particular, to respect the law currently in force, the Law on the selection of MPs, under which the owners of the political party's mandate or political coalition are, if they are registered with the competent authorities. I would like to reiterate that DOS has never been registered as a political coalition, so in a formal legal sense it represents an election list supported by 18 political parties and one union. The owners of the DOS mandate were also other exclusively political parties, who, besides, supported that list with their seal, because the seal could not exist so far. Of course, we have heard a different opinion here today. We have heard the opinion that individual MPs can be the owners of the mandate and that is the solution proposed for the new parliament as well. The solution is based on a procedure initiated by someone at the Constitutional Court of Serbia, but the Constitutional Court has not yet taken a position on the issue, it has not yet assessed whether the Law on selecting MPs is contrary to the Constitution or not. The DSS is known as the party that has always advocated the rule of law, respect for rights, legitimacy and above all respect for state institutions. If such an important state institution, such as the Constitutional Court of Serbia, decides that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, currently valid, unconstitutional, we will be ready to accept such an interpretation of the Constitutional Court, but in that case all mandates that have been taken from its constitution to date will have to be revised, because we all know that there have been cases that the mandates have ceased to the MPs because of the exclusion from the party. I'm warning the promoter in advance that he can get into a situation where what he's proposing right now doesn't fit in the way he thought it would. That is why the Proposer has the opportunity to accept our amendments, to adopt the Law on the selection of MPs, by which the owners of the political party's mandate are and somehow get out of this situation which can be very controversial. The law proposed by the DSS has, of course, some similarities with this law, but in those most important things it differs. However, the amendments we have submitted to the bill are still possible to correct the whole matter. This is where some of the fundamental differences between the laws that we have before us and the law that the DSS has proposed are: in addition to the issue of ownership of the mandate, which I was talking about, the difference is whether the number of mandates will be counted on by Dont's system, which, as we know, favours the rule of the big party, or by the system of the largest remains; this is, in our opinion, a much fairer system, and we are proposing this system. Because if someone has 3.8 MPs, and someone else has 4, 2, it's much more logical that the first one is closer to four than this other five-digit number. It's fairer to have a new MP first. In addition, by law proposed by the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group, the Administrative Committee is scheduled to take care of the electoral procedure to conduct the elections itself for the new state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The Democratic Party of Serbia therefore proposes an election commission that would be composed of all parliamentary political parties. They would all have one representative per commission and she would simply deal with this election process, which, given that it is a summary list, is more like a verification than the choice itself. The MPs, in our opinion, must have their own replacements. Because if we look at a member of the law, it's Article 19. We can easily conclude that in the first days of the new assembly, there may be an end to the term of office for a wide variety of reasons. That is why it is necessary for the proposer, meaning the political party, to make his proposal and replace it. The replacement may be as much as there are MPs who are elected, and it may be less, depending on the assessment of the promoter himself. Finally, there is, in our opinion, another issue in Article 19, when the MP ceases his term. We believe it is necessary to include in that member a provision to suspend the term of office under the Law on the Election of the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia, which many here have already spoken of, so I would not want to take up time. Furthermore, I must say that the members of the DSS in the Constitutional Commission and, in general, the DSS, as such, advocated, above all, for the democratic principle of choice, for the democratic and European principles that are contained in the Constitutional Charter itself, which means a direct choice of MPs. Perhaps those who have followed the work of the Constitutional Commission will remember that we have struggled bitterly until the last moment to elect MPs in the Assembly in this way. However, because of the ultimatums set up by some of the parties in Montenegro, and some in Serbia responded to this very ultimatum, the survival of the future state union was at stake, so we accepted a compromise, i.e. Such an indirect choice of MPs. But an indirect choice under the law that we have proposed or if the amendments we have proposed were adopted. Unfortunately, the way the discussion was going, I do not believe that these amendments will be adopted. There will be a major infraction on democracy again, on the citizens' electoral will. In addition, the proposer himself, the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group, recently changed its name a few months ago, so she deleted from her name that adjective -- a democratic -- and became only a reform of Serbia. Is that because he's about to reform, for who knows which way, just this time in a different way, the electoral will of the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26021	The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Urošević, and the next declared word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26022	The Honorable Presidency, brothers and sisters of Serbs, respected representatives of national minorities and ethnic communities, respecting the principle that the quality of what is said is not measured by the number, nor by the speed of spoken words and without the intention of using the speaker of this high home for verbal exhibitionism, let me say that according to my humble legal knowledge, the provisions of the law should be precise, clear, which means unequivocal. Therefore, it is also surprising that the provision in Article 3(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies. A bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, which reads: "The political parties and political coalitions participate in the distribution of mandates in the Assembly." Everything would be fine if that's where the act was put. But here the sentence continues -- "and other organisations represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". If we put this article in context with the first position of Article 5, which speaks - MPs are elected in proportion to the number of MPs that the sending groups have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - a logical and perhaps a bit strange question arises, whether under this "and other organisations" the committees formed in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should also be understood. Particular attention should be paid to Article 5 of the law, which, in the opinion of the Serbian Unity Party, is to legalise the end of the electoral will of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens did not vote for parliamentary groups, but for certain political parties and post-election creation of parliamentary groups is a matter of political combinations. Without the intention of undermining the creation of any parliamentary group, nor contesting their right if they are formed under the current Rules of Procedure, except for the formation of phantom groups created by ad hoc for DOS needs, I believe that this category of parliamentary groups, as a parameter for selecting MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, is very unstable. In addition, it endangers the security and legality of the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, as it is easy to transfer MPial group creation syndrome to the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. Isn't this proposal in this article also preparing and announcing a new law, that the next election could be run by a parliamentary group, which would also be a political nonsens. Otherwise, as far as the Serbian Unity Party is concerned, we, with 13 or 14 MPs, belong to the five mandates of the Assembly of the Communities. However, we consider the investment of amendments to be a constructive activity aimed at improving legislation. Out of all the above, MPs of the Serbian Unity Party will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26023	The People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and the next is the Messenger of the people, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26024	In this proposed law, three things are essential and most important: it is the choice of MPs, the submission of the list and the mandate of MPs. When it comes to selecting MPs, this system that proposes this law may have been for many of us a long time history related to the history of communism. The communists last time, on these premises, in these parliaments, had a delegate system. They propose delegates, delegates represent what the Central Committee has made as a decision and are blindly held to it. Here, that period is coming back through a law like this again. No wonder internationalists are the creators of this law. These are members of this new Socialist International who forget to address each other from this pay phone with their comrades and friends. That's why you'll be punished in that international. Just play along, you think it's a fashion trend, how you know you're using it in politics, so no one's gonna punish you. What's controversial about the proposer's explanation? He says the future composition of Serbia-Montenegro's alliance parliament reflects the political will and mood of Serbian citizens. The method or methodology of elections by means of indirect means, through delegates around, according to the proposings, will now reflect this state of mind and mood in Serbia as well. The only argument behind that, which is used, is political reality in Serbia and nothing else. If the electoral election system in the federal assembly is correct, then we must question the way in the Republic Parliament. In the proposal for a mandate, as provided for by the legislator or by the motion for this act, political coalitions, or political parties, groups of citizens, and we have even in the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly, which regulates the work of the Assembly, in Article 24, to form parliamentary groups. MP groups can be formed no later than seven days before the assembly president's election, and the remaining text refers to the formation of party parliamentary groups and political organisations that participated in the elections. We have a precedent here, as the legislator predicts, that newly formed parties are treated as parties with full authority to propose MPs and parties that participated in not the elections. That's precedent. We can understand that within the DOS, the parties participating in the elections have the right to propose their MPs, but what will you gentlemen do with the party headed by Vuk Obradovic. The Constitutional Court has given him the legitimate right to have the mandates of his party, and you gentlemen have established a new party in the meantime. What will you gentlemen do with the Socialist People's Party? How are you going to explain that? These are newly formed parties in this House. Where's their election victory? It's coming true now. Their biggest election victory is that they will have two, three or more MPs in the federal parliament, which is out of their minds. Who has the mandates of these MPs, who are chosen from the summary list? Most of them in the Assembly. Whose majority? Right now, most of them are DOS. Who's DOS, no one in Serbia knows that yet. You're arguing here who slept during the adoption of the Resolution, who went where, if he knows where he's going. Serbia can't cheat like that anymore. Political reality and reality are in Serbia: Serbian citizens are looking for new elections. And you just run away from those choices, you'll be forced to sign them. If you have time to sign them, you won't obviously have time, enough of the citizens of your Marriettelu, your thieves. And our proposal, the Serbian Radicals, since it is a delegate system, is best to simplify everything, is cheapest for Serbia-Montenegro: let Serbia propose Zoran Djindjic, Montenegro Milo Djukanovic, add Kostunica and Peđa, and there are four of them, which are agreed with beer or coffee, this will be done by Serbia-Montenegro, and you Serbs remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26025	The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, and the next declared word is MP Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to point out the futility of adopting this law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament. I think this is just one useless job. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro without a customs union, without a common currency, without a common market, and there is no state. Today we need to pass a law on a common state, which is not trusted by the entire state leadership of Montenegro. After all, we have been familiar with Filip Vujanovic and Milo Djukanovic's statements several months ago. A few days ago or the day before yesterday, Milo Djukanovic, Prime Minister of Montenegro, said that after two or three years there will be a referendum and Montenegro will be independent and independent. Today, by adopting this law, there are still those naive in Serbia, who believe in the good intentions of Javier Solana and other international factors. If the international community, the most significant European and American factor, truly wanted a modern and modern Federation, they would have made Milo Djukanovic, but also a good part of Serbia's people do so in just a few days. This is a waste of work and is not the right president of the Cedomir Jovanovic parliamentary group, who just said those in power until 2000 are responsible for the break-up with Montenegro and Milo Djukanovic. Milo Djukanovic has since 1997 been an instrument in the hands of international factors that have all done to break this country and will do everything to further fragment Serbia. In addition, the most recent statements by the Vice-President of the Vojvodina Assembly, I do not know his name, which says the Vojvodina issue will certainly be internationalised, or these latest developments in southern Serbia, where we are witnessing armed riots and terrorist acts. And a few days ago, by adopting the Constitutional Charter, we talked about the need to change, I think, Article 9, where minority and human rights are spoken of, about individual and collective freedoms, and where you here, most of you, have adopted that these rights cannot be reduced, restricted or suspended. We asked for it to be entered as an amendment. In fact, it wasn't an amendment, but it was a story in principle, because all serious states have such provisions, both America and Britain. What will we do when this happens, what is already happening in southern Serbia? What will the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly be like in the first place, when we know what the future government will look like? It's a government that doesn't rule, it's ministers who have no authority, no authority, no water, no policy, no laws. They're just coordinating, so it'll look about like that future congregation. We had our own proposal and we felt that the proposal was good, that MPs were chosen in proportion to the results achieved in the September elections. If the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is in some way a continuation, conditionally speaking, of the federal state, then the principle should be applied, but in this situation certainly the DOS would not have an estimated majority. The Socialist Party of Serbia would certainly have 30 or more MPs. That didn't work out for DOS, and then it started with this solution. Of course, there were some reasons. Very often DOS can say - the voter's will has changed significantly from September to December. What do we say today, how much the voter's will has changed since December 2000? To this day, early 2003? Only now is the voter's will and as changed and I am deeply convinced of the rest of the DOS, along with Kostunica, would it have nearly 50% voter support, which is necessary for the exercise of power. So the only real solution to this situation was either direct elections or, if it's already going to these indirect ones, to tie ourselves to the September 2000 election results. DOS went with a December 2000 solution. We know how these choices went, that it was the time of the lynch and the hickey and that these election results were not a reflection of the real situation and the real relationship of the forces. However, DOS does not even accept this, the election results of December 23rd, but are talking about the state of play in the Assembly. This current situation in the Assembly is very disputable. We don't know if DOS is unique now, from the rest of what's left, if we have any special parties. We have a series of these smaller parties with 3, 4 MPs: the Democratic Center, the Vojvodina Reformists, the Alliance for Vojvodina, who knows what's in there. These are such small parties that even their family ropes in some elections would never vote for. Therefore, it is not a true reflection of strength. For us, the representatives and MPs of the SPS are certainly the most painful issue of the mandate of the national Socialists. Simply, people have formed their own party, and they have not been in these parliamentary elections and by no logic can they have MPs in the Republic Assembly, nor can they have MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. It is the very question that is said - parliamentary clubs are the minority owners of the mandate. That's not true. MP clubs can't be the owners of the mandate. The owners of the mandate can only be political parties. Now some appeal to certain international conventions has no basis, because we did not agree our laws with those international conventions, under which mandates always belong and remain Members. When, eventually, a certain alignment is carried out, then we can also talk about this new method. But it is clear that in these conditions every political party will take care of whom it is running for MPs. They'll make sure that these people have to be people of morality, credibility, not naked flyers. We're not voting for this law, because we don't think this law leads to any good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26027	The word is made by MP Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26028	Dear People's MPs, Article 20. The Constitutional Charter was one of the key problems facing the Constitutional Commission. It's easy to talk about pure legal solutions. When the Constitutional Charter was written, it was anything but a legal solution, especially a theoretical legal solution. Its writing had to reach for certain political compromises in order to preserve Serbia-Montenegro's unity, at least in this initial part, with the hope that within three years it will grow and that after three years we will bring a valid constitution that will regulate relations between Serbia-Montenegro and the state union. In another way, it was not possible to resolve the issue of choice but in this way as the Constitutional Charter had regulated. It's simple, even though it's right that the indirect election of atavism in the 19th century, something that's completely undemocratic, we've tried to find a solution, to make such a system that will satisfy both mediocrity and directness. It can be combined, it can be seemingly rhogobatan, it can be reminded of both grandmothers and frogs, but hopefully, and we were confident when we built that solution in, that it would come to life. What is not clear in this law; I will start with Article 5, which is: "Employees are chosen in proportion to the number of MPs that MPs have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". This means that you take a certain moment as relevant, which is when MPs are elected. How do we know it's the will of the voters, and why take this moment as the will of the voters? This is unsustainable on the one hand, if we see that MPs in the future state community will be federal MPs who are directly elected, and the fruit is the will of the voters since September 2000. So two different time criteria are completely different. Second of all, what is a group of MPs? No matter what article 3 says, I can suspect that someone, for example, can invest money, buy certain MPs that they form a parliamentary group and call it the name of a party or party that has not passed the censorship. At that point, there would be a party in the Federal Assembly, and we're not going to name it, for example. A party of flying yoga, which did not participate at all in the elections, which exists as registered, and would be represented in the federal parliament if someone here had declared or found five people who would have formed the parliamentary group. That's one thing. The second thing is, I'm not clear on the position of Article 2. He partially repeats the Constitutional Charter and says, "A candidate for MP may be a national MP, and in the first elections for MPs of the Assembly and a federal MP for the Council of Citizens, or the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly." What are the first choices? I must say that this member hides one danger within himself, that we choose MPs for the other day, that we should take federal MPs as ambassadors of the state community, for example. in a further procedure in the national community, no specific body is formed, e.g. Council of Ministers. If that doesn't happen twice, according to the Constitutional Charter, the assembly of the state union is disbanded and going back to the election. This means that within a month or a month and a half of this procedure, someone could cause a particular crisis by completely excluding federal MPs who are now in the federal parliament from the work of the state union parliament. I must say that in this way certain MPs, who are representatives of certain political parties, can be forced to always be loyal so as not to cause a crisis or to make early elections. If this interpretation is so, then the new elections within two years mean that only MPs from this Parliament can be MPs in the parliament of the state union, for example Dragoljub Micunovic, Mile Isakov, Perisic, Covic, Batic and Obradovic would have fallen off. I do not know what is behind this Article 2(3) position but the correct interpretation, at least as we have written the Constitutional Charter, is that in the course of two years there can be only one election for the federal parliament, and if elections are held in the Member States, this proportion will only affect the proportion of MPs in the parliament of the state union. That's what's completely causing the misunderstanding. In my opinion, Article 3(2) is a kind of pressure to accidentally avoid early elections in the Republic of Serbia, as this is a Republic law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26029	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, representative of the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26030	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is an objection that deserves a comment. It wasn't our intention as a proposing that we condition anyone, but it was practically the position of Article 2. Proposal for a law on selecting MPs for the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly stemmed from Articles 20-2 and 3. Constitutional statutes. The Constitutional Charter defines who may be the candidate in the first elections, which are intervening for the new assembly. Direct elections were said to be organised in two years. In the period of those two years, no one thinks about the possibility of organising any new elections. They may occur, but only during a period of two years can there be extraordinary elections (I am not talking about elections for the assembly of the state community), and only if the authorities of the state community are not established, or if one authority loses the trust necessary for the smooth functioning. It is true that in this case those MPs who are now candidates for MPs will be disabled, due to the status that they have in the SRJ Assembly, but this has been established as a norm of the Constitutional Charter. I don't think we can, through the law, change something that has been established by the Constitutional Charter, but we just have to adapt to it in law. The Constitutional Charter was unanimously adopted. So no vote against was, as far as I know. I'm exempt from one minority party, which has left the Constitutional Commission's timely work, as well as parties that did not want to participate. This has been established by the Constitutional Charter and I don't think there is a practical possibility of abuse. As for the election will, Article 20 also told how elections are organised, how Member States can and must do so and what will happen during the first two years of implementation of the Constitutional Charter, or the functioning of the state union. There is no room for any legal freedom other than that shown in this document, because it is literally translated from the Constitutional Charter. Election will and whether the 2000 elections are a criterion or not - it is nowhere in the Constitutional Charter. The 2000 elections simply cannot be a criterion, except for the criteria on which the republican parliament rests. Since changes have occurred in the meantime, these changes are not due to the will of the Constitutional Commission or to the proposal that through the law, the Assembly changes the composition, but rather to the expression of our reality, which has nothing to do with this topic. We can do nothing but say that there will be representatives of the parties and coalitions that participated in the elections. The candidates for MPs are indeed only the persons who participated in these elections. In the meantime, making new parties or new parliamentary clubs makes it difficult for our situation, but it does not delegitize them, because only the Constitutional Court or this Parliament can actually do such a thing if they make a concrete decision. But we can't make that decision, because in one case or another, we would violate someone's right. The electoral will comes from the electoral model. It is also indirect with this indirect model, among other things, the electoral body has been established. That's us 250, no more than that. This electoral body actually elects MPs, i.e. delegates our team in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly and does not really question any right, since it is clear that certain rights are disputed, but completely under another legal mechanism and in other situations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26031	The People's MP Stevan Guduric (a replica to the presentation of MP Tomo Busetic) came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26032	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we talk about those who participated or did not participate in the elections, that they would sit here with the right, and if we talk about morality, I think it was the wrong interpretation. I know I've been very involved in the elections, and I've already said it from this pay phone once, and if the Socialists had done their best in other areas as in Beocino, it would have been different here in the Serbian Parliament since December 2000. And don't let a moral sermon be held by those who don't have that result behind their backs. Today, in my midst, I'm supported by socialists. Well, my colleague, I don't think that you, as before, are being supported by socialists in your area. When we check the election, we'll get the same result again, because where I come from, and when it tries to take power, it can't be kidnapped by power in Sreme so easily, it can't be kidnapped by anyone. And then, when we re-election, we get that part of ourselves that's out of the way again. So we have some of them talking about how they have IDs, and some don't. There's also a question of morality. Let's cut the morale issue, we should be careful who interprets it, because if we keep talking about some counterfeits and forged signatures, then someone really got it wrong and got it all wrong. And besides, when the time comes to be the first elections, here's the 23rd we'll see what it looks like, not only in relations between us in the SPS, but also with others in Alibunar, so we'll see if those here today are talking about who the socialists are, that some of them are illegal, who have been entertaining this assembly by mistake here, and they're sitting there by mistake, and some of them are days and they're very much worth it. Before the break there was one comment here, when I said I was giving up the story, we're going to lunch, someone said "we're not equal." Well, we're not very equal, because, like what he said, from day one, I've been in that SPS, just, working for the SPS, yelling my shoes, and he's the Mercedes. Well, we weren't even in it. We have similar years, and when I started working in my life, I started working as an engineer, and he didn't, so we're not even again. Because if we mentioned all the other things, we'd go a long way. It's best if some of you keep your mouth shut, 'cause maybe that silence is to let someone forget what they've done. What they did, it's hardly an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26033	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this parliament should radiate with law, radiate with legality, to prove itself to be a parliament. What has been announced in previous elections by the known DOS coalition, hence the former DOS coalition, which came before the parliament to do the most damage to Serbian voters in this way. It's too bad it's been done to voters. You, DOS gentlemen, bypass the voters, because you've seen that it's not working out for you, you've made sure of the Leskovec case, and you can't go out early, and you won't get out easily, perhaps even in the regular elections that you have to make. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in these areas of this lawlessness was not from the Romans to the Royality of Mark. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in the Rules of Procedure and in the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, it is written and determined, normised in which cases the Members of Parliament ceases office. Among other cases and reasons, the MP ceases his term with his resignation and those other reasons and death. When the MP resigns, he can no longer call off his resignations, and this team before the MP, who is also a professor of law school, says - I was in legal error, you know, sorry, I was wrong, I was deceived, I will return to the republican parliament. It can't. When the deceased can't come back from the grave for this pay phone, neither can the one who resigned. Only this House can do that, in the majority part. How do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that you have a homogeneous, single parliament, when you should elect 91 MPs from Serbia and 30 MPs from the Republic of Montenegro to the community of the states of Serbia-Montenegro? So somewhere around 28 parties should be elected by 130 MPs. Give an example of a comparative right and give an example of whether it exists in Asia, in Africa, whether it exists in North America, in South America, whether it exists in Europe, and in any part of the globe. There's no case like this. Ladies and gentlemen, ten months have been spent, billions of dinars spent on making this charter constitutional. A lot of taxpayers' money has been spent. Those who wanted to build and participate in making this charter from Belgrade to Podgorica a hundred times and spent heavy taxpayers' money on special planes, special cars. Eventually, after ten months, they dared to come forward with a proposal like this. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this will be what the people say, "Keep the water while the masters leave." What's going to happen to this country you're building? Many voters and many citizens tell you that they have nothing to expect from those who have made such a charter and those who today violate the basic Law on the selection of MPs and other laws by such a legal act which, absolutely, cannot be accepted. The SRS is against this kind of solution. No one can single out two MPs now and say, "I have a group of MPs now." Gentlemen lawyers, professors, dear colleagues, are not the same electoral list and parliamentary group. Make a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26035	The word is from MP Zoran D. Nikolic, followed by MP Bora Stanimorovic. Availability time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26036	Since there is little time left, I will talk faster, all about two thesis or two aspects of this law. First, for me, this debate is inseparable from the Constitutional Charter debate we had here a few days ago. I think we are witnessing quite absurd situations and the largest number of parties here in parliament, in its programme efforts, has the Serbia-Montenegro community as its fundamental and state-owned commitment. When it was due to vote on the Serbia-Montenegro community, to extend its century to at least three years, many political parties have deviated from their political commitment to living together two republics and two peoples and voted against the constitutional charter. This is nothing new, it has happened that the parties deviated from their programmes, giving primate to other interests. Nothing unusual. It is unusual for the parties who voted against the Constitutional Charter to now take a huge part, when it comes to the law under which the Constitutional Charter is being implemented and convince all of us who voted for the Constitutional Charter, for the community of Serbia-Montenegro states, to implement the law on electing MPs. Some parties even authoritatively do so, simply racing to get into the institutions of the state against which they voted a few days ago. I don't think that's a bit principled. It seems that principle here is not a stronger side, at least for some. As far as principles are concerned, many of these speakers have attacked the decision-making way, that is, the way MPs will be reached in that future state, particularly in the face of political parties and who should decide on mandates and not parliamentary groups. Indeed, I cannot blame many MPs for such an attitude and that is legitimate vision. I can blame those I've shared well with in this House by yesterday, and I've implemented similar laws with someone. I must remind you, I think the analogy is absolutely valid, the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, whose delegation we are deciding today, is absolutely identical to the Greater Republic that we had in the Federal Parliament by yesterday. As we have decided here in this House to elect MPs in this larger republic. I will quote to you the 1992 law, passed by this assembly, which said in Article 5 that a candidate for MEPs in the Greater Republic could propose a parliamentary group in the National Assembly. The 1993 amendments added that the parliamentary group can propose as many candidates as the MPs are elected in the Greater Republic. Finally, the Law on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly of April 2000 in Article 7 says a proposal for the election of MPs to the Greater Republic is submitted by a parliamentary group in the National Assembly. So, this... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... It is not the first time, but always when the National Assembly was determined for indirect elections, not direct ones, the parliamentary group was the bearer of political activities, not the political party in the National Assembly. This has made no exception, but only the continuity of looking at indirect elections, from the constitution of multilaterals in Serbia to today. Finally, after my time runs out, with those who laminate over the fate of the people's socialists and portray us as the doss of the majority or minority, or Djindjic's government, I would just like to say the following: let them look at Article 189. Rules of Procedure. There they will see that at least 20 MPs can raise the issue of no confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Since several parliamentary groups, opposition or positional groups, I don't know, there are more than 20 MPs in this House... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... Let him raise that question. That way, they will determine what the people's socialists think of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26037	The word has been issued by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform. I ask the assembly to listen to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26038	Dear Mrs. Komic, respect, pursuant to Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... Can we listen to each other? Dear colleagues, since it is our obligation to complete this work tomorrow and it would be truly solidarity and collegiate to share this time today, based on Article 81. [[Sagar.]] Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that we extend the session of the background for which we have been late for the work of the board today, which means no more than two hours. I also have a proposal that, on the basis of Article 133, the amendment debate lasts only three minutes. I ask the Parliament to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26039	The proposal to shorten the debate in particular can in principle be submitted when the debate starts in particular, but we can put in two separate proposals now. So, the first proposal is for the Assembly to continue its work for another two hours after 1800 hours. It is my duty to inform that the time is at the disposal of MPs registered for another 78 minutes and that 50 minutes is available to the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, which is 128 minutes and represents approximately two hours. I ask the Assembly, do you agree that we continue the work of the Assembly today in another two hours? For 100, against 47, a abstentioned one, did not vote 46, out of a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal from the MP Sinisha Mitrovica that we are working today until 20.00 hours. I put the second motion to vote - that the debate in the details of the amendments takes three minutes and I ask the MPs to plead. For 88, against 78, the abstentions were not voted 27, out of 193 MPs. In order for the decision to be taken, 84 MPs are required, so I ask the secretary to correct me - the decision has not been taken. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted a decision to shorten the time of the debate for discussion in particular, and remains under the Rules of Procedure to discuss the amendment of five minutes. The word has a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, since the proposal to extend the working time and to cut down on the discussion has partially succeeded, I will seek to shorten my discussion in order to meet this requirement in some ways. I think it's all the time being about some way of choosing MPs, and especially when I first read this law and when I found Dont's system, I didn't get it very well, because it was a printing error, so I thought it was probably a calculation or calculation of MPs by DOS system. However, I was wrong, as the SPS under Dont's system would have far more MPs in the parliament of the Serbia-Montenegro community than it is under the DOS system. Secondly, when there's a lot of talk about stealing and stealing MPs here in parliament, I think "The Head of Sugar" Milovan Glisic is just a fairy tale compared to everything that's going on here. The most misunderstandings were among the members of the 5th Law on the election of MPs, which was most discussed, and it reads - MPs are chosen in proportion to the number of MPs who have parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that such a proposal was present at the time of the drafting of the Charter of State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, and then it is no accident that a number of signatories of the Belgrade Agreement did not come to the ceremony of the new common state; perhaps because of that member. However, some may not have been informed, but it is precisely the people who have signed the Belgrade Agreement and have not come to the signing of the solemn charter. the declaration of the common State. Only the prime minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic, came, but he was in a difficult role. He had to explain why he was the only one who came from the signatories and why the others didn't come to the signing. Milo Djukanovic probably hurried to prepare a referendum for the separation of an independent Montenegro, and the most joyous was Javier Solana, who is also the most responsible for breaking up the SRJ, the man who sent the bombs to this country, and it is certain that if she disappears, he would remove all responsibility from himself; of course, if the state does not have it because, in the end, you have to admit that there is nothing to bomb if it does not exist. Then, the law on selecting MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro community and the Constitutional Charter is in collegiate. In fact, Article 2 of Article 2 of this law reads that MPs are elected for two years. In the Constitutional Charter, which would require implementation in relation to these other laws, the term of office of MPs is four years. I know what the reason is, but probably the writer of these lines had to make something more favourable, and that would fit the Constitutional Charter and the law itself. Next, in Article 20. The Constitutional Charter says MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are elected in fact to all European and democratic standards. There's no one else out there. If it is according to democratic standards, then the election of MPs would be done directly, and if it is by law. The European Union's guidance, then certainly the ratio of strength would be different, so it is probably a stumbling block, which in this case does not mention what is most important. And the bottom line is that this community we created is the state union of Serbia and Montenegro. Some say it resembles the Austrian monarchy from the period from 1867 to 1918, and the difference is only with the shape and place of administration headquarters, i.e. certain services. The Austro-Hungarian monarchy was actually with the emperor in Vienna and the emperor in Pest, and this community of Serbia-Montenegro will have the president of the community in Belgrade and the president of the tribunal in Podgorica. So if you look a little deeper, it's not even a community, it's not even a union, it's more unique, and it means something that's nowhere but with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26041	The word has a People's MP, Miodrag Jacimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26042	Dear MPs, how many MPs do we actually have in the Serbian Parliament? (Glasses: You don't know.) We don't know, of course. If someone unrelentingly resigns and the Administrative Board accepts it, and the Assembly finds it, I guess that's the right resignation. They say these MPs didn't know what they were doing. How could MPs not know what they're doing? Is there a bigger noise that you don't know as much as the Assembly has MPs, and it should have, we know, 250. That is why MPs should be appointed for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly according to the 2000 elections, and the people's will was the same. As for the Administrative Committee, I was in one session that was a disgrace and a shame, when the chairman said he accepted the Constitutional Court's decision to return 22 DSS MPs, to say in a second sentence -- he suggested that all 45 mandates be taken away immediately. So he accepts the court's decision to cancel that acceptance in the second sentence. Can he undo the Constitutional Court's decision? Since the Management Board had a majority of two votes, they adopted the proposal and then all the DSS MPs were excluded. That was June of the month, I guess. June 12th. That's what I said, and then some media released it, and it all looked like the trial of Draža Mihajlovic in 1946. Taking all parliamentary mandates to the strongest party, because we had 45 then, and the Democratic Party was 44, I guess that never happened in the world. How is it possible that New Serbia with eight MPs, by yesterday, has two representatives in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, and that those with five MPs also have two MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. This is a kidnapping. I don't know if it's shopping, whether it's money or housing, as they say, but this is really embarrassing and embarrassing for the whole people. What happens if another parliamentary group is created and we already give MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly? Will the number of MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly be disturbed? Or if another third, fourth group appears, so we will never know how many Serbian-Montenegro Parliaments have MPs, as we do not know how many MPs here. I guess we need to establish the number of MPs in both this assembly and the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. That is why I am proposing again, and today there have been many stories about this, as I am now saying, that only the mandates that were won in the 2000 elections should be taken into account, because this must be a real criterion for the MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament. These were the right choices, directly, and these MPs have some legitimacy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26043	The word is made by the People's MP Aleksandar Vukic, followed by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26044	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group, as announced, will be opposed to the bill on the election of MPs from the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. If it were the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, even if Azerbaijan had won. We're against this law for a few reasons. The first is to act against the will of the people, to create the will of the people. On behalf of the people, representatives of the people and citizens of Serbia are determined, at least the 91 that we need to delegate, as you say by European standards, I don't know where else in Europe is; you are trying in every way and at all cost to get your listeners into that assembly, people who have no basis or in no way deserve to be found in that assembly. We heard the argument of DOS parliamentary group chief Cedomir Jovanovic, the legislator, who says - all the people who will be in the Assembly of the state community, it is no longer a state, it is some community, some world miracle, participated in an election campaign. Well, as it is, Mr. Sabic, you are the minister in the Serbian government, which is the argument -- they participated in the election campaign. In which law it says - they participated in an election campaign; so they will write: one was glued to posters, the other was running from local television to local radio, and he deserved to be found in the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly. That's a funny argument. It is nowhere in Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's legal order until yesterday and today some new state unions. It doesn't say anything, it can't be a legal basis. You made it up because there's no other argument. Because DOS has to provide most, in any way, then it will deal with the kidnapping of parliamentary groups and then gives them the right to appear there. I have one of the amendments to the MPs here. Whether the Labour Party will appear in Serbia-Montenegro's state union. And if the people didn't think I was crazy or making something up, I hadn't gone crazy yet, some Bratislav Đuric was an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, here's a man, if he can catch that camera, stamp the Labour Party. Will we have members of the Labour Party in the Serbia-Montenegro community? What party is that? Where did that ever vote for them? Who voted for the people's socialists, the international socialists, who voted for it? (Glasses: People. I don’t know who else you’re going to put in the congregation. The people didn't vote for them. The people voted in favour of the assembly election lists DOS, SRS, SPS and SSJ. No one else. These are, apparently, ovations, genes in a man who participated in the separation of the state and the creation of the community. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] What do you do, that's the kind of time that's come. As far as the SRS is concerned, for people to understand, I speak primarily to the ordinary people of Serbia, we do not have any particular reasons or particular interests that we are fiercely opposed, because I am going to lose something to God. There were no traitors in the Republican congregation, nor were there in the Federal Assembly. They're nowhere to be found. You failed to kidnap us, it seems to me to be the only of the opposition parliamentary groups, not one single term. You're not gonna make it because we're holding on tight, brave. But now I want to point out to you what the problem is, I simply know that someone will read what we said in the Serbian Parliament: why the government in Serbia, why the ruling majority -- at times when the state has a lot of problems, when we're running out of state, there's a community, when we have problems in three municipalities in southern Serbia, Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, when we have a lot of problems in Kosovo and Metohija as a state, when they're trying to impose problems on us in Vojvodina, when we have problems with lawsuits because the state won't react to what used to happen in the former Bosnia and Herzegovina area -- why does the state just want to deal with its political opponents? I will pass a law where those who have never been MPs will appear in the state community, so when I don't have enough then I will throw political opponents out of here because I don't like them. In every way possible. First we're going to law on selecting MPs, then the law on chandeliers, but after these chandeliers, you have to know that there's guaranteed a law on gangbing, and you have to be sure that the banders will be the ones who invented chandeliers, too, because that's how it comes back. Shut down that Pandora's box, try to make the normal political system work in Serbia, that democratically, through direct elections we decide, that the people decide on their representatives, who will represent it in national representations, and not in this way, just kidnapping and only political opponents put away, destroy, kill, hang on to the chandeliers or I know nothing to do with them. That's why I call on you not to accept this law, and I'm sure everything that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party tell you, we don't have much time, and that's why I'm ending up, and I don't think it's gonna be too late, one day you'll understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26045	The People's Messenger Branko Ruzic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Vukosav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26046	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on the election of MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is only one of the latest acts in the disseminating and atomising of the common state. One of the indicators, perhaps irrelevant, but very important for that is the almost finished football game, where even with the football giant Azerbaijan, we managed to play the draw. That's enough talking about the Charter and the state you're preparing here to carry out in one way. As far as the law itself is concerned, I must say that he is, of course, contradictory. This can be seen in the case of Article 2, which says that MPs are elected for two years, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter. And then Article 23 says, "If elections for MPs are held in the Republic of Serbia prior to the end of the term of office of MPs of the Assembly (which, of course, is a member of the 2nd definition, lasts two years), elections for a new assembly of parliaments will be held in accordance with the procedure laid down in the provisions of this law following the constitution of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter. "This word "if" really doesn't need this Article 23, or you want to tell the citizens of Serbia that perhaps these elections, even within the legal deadline, so at the end of 2004, will not be. On the other hand, you may already know that this scandalous state community will experience a fiasco before the two-year term ends. It is also clear in Article 5 that MPs are chosen by a proportion of MPs who have MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you are referring to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. Article 19 lacks one position, this is not mentioned, that the term of office of the MP ceases before the end of time and in the event of termination of membership in the political party or coalition from which the electoral list was elected, although it is decadently in Article 88. Law on the election of a MP. Of course, this should mean that a new anti-legal formation of phantom parliamentary groups is being prepared and in the new assembly of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. Article 15 defines what is the quantum ambassadors who can elect MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro National Community Assembly, which basically means that 64 MPs, unfortunately illegal, are elected by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro's parliaments, and thus cannot be legitimate. We have heard from the legislator that law and law are not relevant, and that political pragmatism and multilateralism of the executive government are practically the basic criteria for political action in the current and future political moment. In political theory, the synonym for it is macarovelism and it is known to the maximum that the goal justifies the means. Of course, the desire of the current executive authority to rule in such a way as to compensate for the deficit in support of the Supreme Political Arbitraries, which are in every democratic state exactly the citizens of that state, is legitimate, but certainly there are no points of contact with democratic principles, which, according to the declared objectives and these authorities should be ultimately integrated into the regulation of society. However, this manner of political treatment towards citizens, above all, is not a good recommendation for any desire for European integration, where democratic principles, as the current government's representatives teach us, are respected. It is not really clear why the proposing such a contradictory legislative proposal justifies the alleged political reality, for the simple reason that the executive power has just produced such a political reality, with the help of certain beneficial, amoral human creations, which have formed certain phantom parliamentary groups in this House. Of course, against constitutional and legal provisions. In fact, if the political reality and changes in the trends of the electoral will of citizens are truly wanted, and even the will is built into the laws of this type, it certainly cannot be done to the administration of the Serbian Parliament. The only democratic way to do that, and we all know that, which no one can dispute, is the elections. I don't understand why you're running away so much from this most democratic way of determining the will of citizens, if it's true, as you say, that you have the majority support of citizens. However, if that is true, then you really wouldn't need this Administrative Committee of the Serbian Parliament to determine, or forge, the electoral will of citizens. Unfortunately, it seems to me, as you say, that it is indeed in a legal and factual error, because the people have started to keep quiet, and you all know what comes after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26047	The People's MP Vukosav Tomašević has the word, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitutional Charter has established indirect elections for Serbia-Montenegro's first assembly. How is it possible in this way, through indirect elections, to establish that assembly and that it has legitimacy, so that this legitimacy has a state community? Only in this way, if the will of citizens from both members of the state community is authentically transferred to that assembly. What is the mechanism to determine the will of citizens, their political mood, the strength of political parties, coalitions and options? These are the only results and only the results of the last direct republican elections in both member states of the state. Only in this way, if we fully authentically transfer that will to this new congregation, that congregation can have legitimacy. In any other way, by applying any other criterion, regardless of its motive and basis, the Serbia-Montenegro state union assembly is losing its legitimacy at the beginning. This is where the legislator's problem arises. The problem is: those who have a majority, an illegal and illegal majority in this assembly, want absolute authority in the Serbia-Montenegro community. That's why they need a majority in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. You'd be happy to do that if you could, we know it, in this legitimate way. However, there is the core of the problem. When you apply this mechanism I was talking about, you cannot get any more than 45 MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. To have a majority there, it takes at least 46 mandates. In that situation, you enter into this story that you offer us through this law. So you are aware that in the beginning you are delegating that assembly, but you are doing so to impose a sufficient number of mandates on your coalition partner from Montenegro to hold power in the future state community. What's up with that? MP groups have been designed as the basis for calculating the mandate. That can't work. Gentlemen, MP groups are not a political or legal category. They're not even in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, they're not in the legislation at all. Parliament groups are not members of parliament's mandates, they are not authorised to legislate those MPs in any way. Parliament groups are technical bodies in this National Assembly, designed and through the Rules of Procedure only to facilitate the work and bring order into this assembly. It is theoretically possible to establish 50 parliamentary groups in this National Assembly. It's also possible that their numbers and compositions change here every day. That would mean that we and Serbia-Montenegro have daily changes in its composition in this assembly. As a result, it is legally unsustainable that MPs serve to draw the number of mandates from this assembly for this second congregation. From all of this, it is clear what the objectives of the legislators of this law on the election of MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are. So, these goals are: firstly, that all illegalities and illegality of the composition of this National Assembly are transferred and fixed in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly; secondly, to create the basis for further delegitisation of this National Assembly to reflect directly and on the already established Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, which was mentioned by counterpart Jocic earlier; thirdly, to prevent early elections in Serbia. What effect does this have on Serbia-Montenegro's state union? Someone has already said in the debate here, "what a hump is born, life doesn't make right." So instead of building Serbia-Montenegro's relationship on sound grounds, instead of reaching a political consensus, instead of building this joint future house in the right way, we are already starting to push dynamite into its foundations. You know who's gonna make the most of it? Think about what I'm about to tell you. The most profitable will be your future coalition partner, Milo Djukanovic. Here's how. The moment he decides to break up that future community, you know what he's gonna say. They'll say, how am I going to make a state with them when they faked it at the beginning? It won't be Milo telling you the moment he thinks he needs it as an argument. Be safe. That's clear, as clear as there's one more thing. Now, after such a law, it is also clear who insisted and who made it clear that indirect elections are established in the Constitutional Charter for the first assembly of the Assembly. Milo Djukanovic, who he is, has no reason to fear direct elections. He wins those direct elections in Montenegro. Who's afraid of direct choices? You're afraid of those of you who have that thin bought-out majority here. You were the ones who happened and insisted that the elections be held indirectly. Misko Vukovic and his team were only contractors, and you supported them as well. That's the whole problem. If the Constitutional Charter had set up direct elections, you would not today be concerned with whether you have 45 or 47 MPs, but would have talked about eight or ten MPs, because that is how much you belong based on the ratings you have in Serbia. Look at the research, from eight to 12%. Of that 91 MPs, eight, nine or ten MPs there. It's the end of the whole story and it's completely clear. It's not good, and it's not right that for the sake of power, for the sake of personal interests and goals, you're destroying the state, that what's just been conceived, which isn't even born yet, which is yet to be created and born, in the beginning to be condemned to death. That's not good. Think about it and be aware of the responsibility you have for it. At least learn some of those who were before you. And they thought it would be forever in power, and here they are now. You can't run away from the people's will, you can't escape the election. The election will take place, even in autumn 2004. And we'll wait for that. We've endured Sloba for 10 years, and we'll hold you for another year and a half, and we'll see your back. It's clear to you and to us. You realize you can't win the election and you won't be able to steal it, all right, because we won't let you. And that you will. Sloba couldn't steal 40% of the voter's vote. Therefore, you will come down from power, and consider the consequences that remain behind you. As for us at the DSS, we'll never think of proposing, nor voting anything that's unconstitutional, illegal and illegal. So we call upon you, let us grant this law, that it may be lawful and legitimate. Accept the amendments we have proposed, especially this key to Article 5. Then together we can lay down a good law and rightly base this state union. If that doesn't happen, of course, the DSS can't accept this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26049	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, the promoter, has a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26050	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is an absolutely amazing skill that MPs can sit in the Assembly for eight hours without reaching any facts spoken for by the assembly speaker. Maybe it's because there's no joke, some joke, but this isn't as banal as everything was banal that preceded my date for the assembly pay phone. So these are the phonograph notes from the 39th session of the Commission to draw up the draft structure, starting principles and definitions and other solutions to the text of the Constitutional Charter, of 29 December. The Constitutional Charter was adopted unanimously in front of the Constitutional Commission, of those parties that have delegated their representatives to the Constitutional Commission. The DSS was supposed to say it did not want to participate in the work of the Constitutional Commission and then, as socialists and as radicals, criticised the Constitutional Commission proposal, but on 27 January, the DSS voted in favour of the Constitutional Charter and Article 20. The Constitutional Charter, which defines the choice of MPs through the indirect model of choice. And, not Milo Djukanovic in this assembly, the DSS voted, along with the DOS coalition partners. Disputeing your own work is something that is a completely legitimate thing, but you are talking about yourself, not DS or DOS supporters. The election will of the citizens of December 2000 is not protected, at least not by the electoral will of which you have come to the Assembly, because you have been protecting the choice of will that was the rival election will of the voters who elected you to this parliament all day long. You protect the electoral will of those who supported the SPS, the radicals, the SSJ, but that was two years ago, when you got the votes, they were your political opponents. And if they're your associates and allies today, then you don't deserve anything but this kind of criticism, which is completely unnecessary, because it's the consequence of your unpreparedness to accept anything. On the Constitutional Commission you voted in favour of the charter and I think one state union, whatever it is, is much more valuable than any function. And if we need to talk today about whether it's worth changing the state union of Serbia-Montenegro for the function of one man, then it should be openly said: we think we should. Because the lives of 10 million people are more important than the political fate of one individual, who was not ready to respect the interests of that 10 million. It's a political reality and ignoring that reality is something we don't accept and don't agree to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26051	He has the word National MP Tomislav Nikolic (replic).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26052	I think, Mrs. Comic, that you should follow the debate, and whatever you belong to the parliamentary majority group in this House, you should especially remind those who lead the parliamentary majority in this parliament when insulting Serbian citizens. It turned out, according to the criticism Mr Jovanovic directed to the predecessor, that the electoral will of those citizens who supported the radicals, who supported the Socialists, should not be protected. That's exactly what Mr. Jovanovic said, you kept it quiet. The election will of every Serbian citizen should be supported, regardless of who he voted for. Whoever got fewer votes, he's in opposition. But, Mr. Jovanovic, if you said this morning that your sanctity is every voice that is directed to any political structure in this country, or even to the opposition, then don't, now that you've fallen a little into the fire, when you've been scratched by someone on the surface, to reveal in fact the true structure of your behaviour in the National Assembly. We are worthy of election will and of those who voted for you. On the change of that election will we count on the next elections, and you respect this assembly, you do not have to do with Peru, Micah, or Lazu, but respect the MPs who sent the electoral will of the citizens to the assembly. And when we prove to you that you're over it, we prove it to the arguments, not because we hate citizens who voted for a particular political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26053	Because of the principle of equality and due to the careful listening of all speakers, and agreeing with you that the electoral will of all is equal for respect, that is the only reason why no speaker is interrupted (you can look at the stenograms), except for speakers who directly addressed the chairman. The theme of this session is that it implies the widest possible freedom of argument and all MPs are using it abundantly. By the end of this principle debate, unless the speaker speaks directly to me, I will not interrupt the speaker, and those who listen and watch us will judge. I repeat, it is an undeniable obligation for all of us to respect the electoral will of the citizens, whoever they voted for. There's a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26054	First of all, Mr. Jovanovic, you don't have to yell from this pay phone, we hear you very well. Save it for your party and family. (Dada Jovanovic, from the place: Fatty.) I would ask you to calm Mr Jovanovic, he is speaking rudely.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26055	As you address me, the Rules of Procedure oblige you not to communicate with the MPs of the people, and the MPs of the people in the bench not to communicate with you, so I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure and you have no reason to speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26056	The second thing, you know very well that there has been the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, why it has occurred, and that, unlike some of those sitting in this room, there is something called the State's interest and what is called the preservation of state territories and the halting of the process of disintegration in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. The DSS is only managed by that interest. Presidential candidate Vojislav Kostunica's platform in the 2000 elections, and then the coalition that took place in the elections for both the federal and the assembly, was the preservation of the Serbia-Montenegro common state. Our interest, the interest of the Serbian state, was to preserve the common state in order to preserve Kosovo, Raska and the north of Vojvodina. We felt that it was above the interest of the party, the abuse of power and the personal benefit to achieve it. The main obstacle to the preservation and creation of a state community -- which would have stronger institutions, would be better consolidated, with ingerences and in the area of finance, with greater intelligence in the area of the military, where the military would have its property and everything else -- is the agreement Djindjic-Djukanovic. And we talked about it a lot. If you have the right to tell MP Tomasevic that he has been sitting here for eight hours and has not heard the facts, you have also failed to hear the facts that were brought here and which no one has disputed. You can see that from the stenogram you quoted. Look at the stenogram, how the debate was going. There are other MPs from this assembly who participated in the work of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Sikimic, and there is Mr. Mujo Mukovic, who can confirm what was happening. If necessary, we will read a full stenogram at this session, but to see who stood up for a strong state, for state institutions, and who stood for the political, or party division between Serbia and Montenegro, for the division of prey. It is precisely the property of the military, state institutions, customs and everything else that is considered to be a division of the state's prey between Djindjic and Djukanovic, which should rob what Milosevic left for them. They should leave it to those who will win and assume that they are responsible for this country, not the way you have done it, prolonging the agony that Milosevic has dragged us into and led us for 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26057	The word has the People's MP Zoran R. Angelkovic [[Replication right, the party mentioned]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26058	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPS isn't looking for any lawyer, nor does it want anyone to be an SPS lawyer here, or wood, or rubber, or anything. We're not interested in hearings of DS and DSS either. We're interested in the will of the citizens. We are not looking and it is not about whether the SPS will have 12 or 14 MPs in that state union parliament, but about ending the December 2000 electoral will of Serbian citizens. We're talking about this election will, we're talking about respect for that law. And if you don't respect it today, then it will apply to you tomorrow. It is not only because of the election will of the citizens in December, but rather because of the end of the power relationship in the future federal parliament of the state community. The whole story is being run here on this very basis, whether most DOS - Reforms in the federal parliament will be 46 or as it is by law and by the people, which is 45. Whether the SPS will be 12 or 14, as per the people of December 2000. This is what needs to be the essence of this law, and everything else is a matter of political debate and attempt to convince the people of something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26059	The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26060	Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about facts now. When a multi-party was introduced in Yugoslavia and Serbia 12-13 years ago, I thought I would never be in a position to listen again to some electoral systems based on delegations, ignoring the only democratic way to choose people's representatives, indirectly, through some quasi-democratic institutions. But then I was still a high school kid, and maybe I didn't understand all that stuff well, and maybe I was mistaken. When professors of law school can be led astray, then why can't I as a high school student and as an ordinary lawyer. After 13 years today, we are again in a position to see the fact that we are attracting some indirect elections, some indirect way of choosing MPs. Whether it's a relic or a continuation of the actions of those who lost their positions 13 years ago, so in the meantime, they changed their uniforms, changed their uniforms and got into some kind of party, who knows what kind of party. With respect to the political will of all and the political functioning of all, but I really think that in terms of the development of parliamentary democracy for this country, whatever it is called, and we all know very well that it is called Yugoslavia, it is a bad step back. At first, I left out a very important fact, which is that the disappearance of Yugoslavia, which we pointed out in the debate on the adoption of the Constitutional Charter as a fact, will bring very many problems about how international entities will react to international contracts in which Yugoslavia was represented as a foreign contractor. And that our fears were not without reason also confirms that today in Bulgaria some major Bulgarian projects are emerging, which require revision of the Najski Agreement based on the revision and return of so-called. Western Bulgarian provinces; they wrap or involve parts of eastern Serbia. And that it was not without a foundation is confirmed by numerous examples from other backgrounds in our country's border areas. What is it? It's here. We have the situation as it is and the fact that Yugoslavia no longer exists, that what the great powers have been up to since the early 1990s has been true. On professional matters and on facts, I must point out that this law on the selection of federal MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is being implemented under the law, more specifically from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the electoral law on the selection of MPs. For the sake of reminders, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 45 provides that the National Assembly has 250 MPs, and this is very suspicious of you, that MPs are elected in the direct elections by a secret vote, and that elections and the end of the mandate of MPs are regulated by law. The aforementioned Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" since 10 October 2000, as we have recently learned more precisely in the context of this debate, with agreement, by consensus of the then large political parties from the opposition, and between them and the DS, there has been an adoption of provisions in article 88 on the way the MPs' term of office ended before the time he was elected. So, in order not to read all these ways, I think the most important point of point 1 of Article 88 is that the MP has ceased his term if he has ceased his membership in a political party or coalition on whose election list he has been elected as MP, rather than in coalition agreements. It is clear that the way in which an MP's term of office is set and terminated must be determined in accordance with the provisions of this law. Now, as a cake cream, comes this law by denying all the positive democratic provisions on the election of MPs, which should also be passed on to this law on the election of federal MPs. We are coming into a situation imposed from abroad and unchangeable, so that we must approach the revision of the electoral model, that we must pick Members in an indirect manner and reflect the state of political forces in Serbia, as it is in the Republic Parliament, which is very, very burdened with the debateable views of the Administrative Committee. In doing so, several questions are asked, and first it is regulated by Article 3 who has the right to mandates. Are these parties or are they MPs? As far as we can and in political parallel practice to check, the answer to that question is in very close contact with the electoral principles. So, if the elections are conducted in a proportionate manner, parliamentary mandates belong to the parties, as voters of the electoral lists, and thus is regulated in the current Law on the Selection of People's MPs. If a majority election principle is applied, then the mandates are primarily for MPs as holders of those mandates. However, a compromise solution seems to have been found here. In doing so, no valid experience in parallel law has been used, let's say that in Germany 50% of MPs are elected in an indirect manner and 50% in a direct manner. It has resorted to a way to preserve the majority in the Republic Parliament, which is very much in the mood to listen, again point out, to listen to non-conversation orders from abroad. As a result, we have as a solution the instruments provided for in Articles 3 and 5, that political parties and political coalitions and other organisations that are held in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia participate in the mandate. Again, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, some parties who did not submit the ballots in the 23 December 2000 elections emerged artificially. As such, according to the bill, they will receive mandates in the new assembly. Why? Because you need them to secure a half-dominated majority in the new assembly, the Federal Assembly, if you can call it federal, Serbia-Montenegro. So, as a way to achieve this objective, the procedure for proposing and the fact that the parties cannot be legislators of the mandate is meant to be parliamentary groups. Why can't they be parties? Because there were only four electoral lists in the 23 December 2000 elections and because many groups, represented today in the Republic Parliament, would be left without a mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26061	People's MP, time at your representative's disposal has expired in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26062	Another example of the primacy of politics over the law that has not brought good anywhere in any country, and I think it's really important that we call to our senses, more specifically, to call upon you as the power of reason and not accept such a law. In the end, allow me a little dyspression, on behalf of the SPS, I congratulate the glory of the Holy Tri-Jerarch SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26063	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Marsicani. He's not in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26064	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after almost a year's work on the Constitutional Charter, here you can assure us that it is in Serbia's interest, within 24 hours, by an emergency procedure, to interrupt an extraordinary session, to pass a law on the selection of members of Serbia-Montenegro's parliament. And, to be clear, when you have in your hands a bill like this, then you know that no MPs are elected but that, at the very least, the cabinets of Zoran Djindjic and Milo Djukanovic are elected. Anything called an MP should be chosen by the people, directly by the people. I guess that's the basic democratic postulate in the elections, which modern Europe has been applying back 50 years. And those who are calling for some law on selecting MPs in the Greater Republic, which have been in force since 1992, will not say that in 2000, the Constitutional Court declared all those provisions on the selection of MPs, and that afterwards we had to change the SRJI Constitution, that we went to direct elections for federal MPs, and that even for the choice of SRJ president, the entire SRJ territory was a single electoral unit. We have here two important members of this law, Article 3 and 5, in direct collegiation. Article 3 says political parties and political coalitions take part in the mandate distribution in the Assembly, and Article 5 says MPs are chosen in proportion to the number of MPs that MPs have in the National Assembly. Now, I'm interested in you, Mr. Jovanovic, you wrote this bill, you know very well this matter, you know the law from A to S, which you didn't write in Section 3 that parliamentary groups participate in the mandate distributions. This would then be in line with the wish of the legislators: Article 3 of the mandates shall be attended by parliamentary groups; Article 5 - composition and the selection of MPs shall take place according to the power of the parliamentary groups, and then it shall be made clear. Then it would be clear that you cannot appeal to Article 20. A constitutional charter that is clear in the first reading, not when you are even more detailed in it. And he says in position 2 -- during the first two years following the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, MPs are elected indirectly, proportionately to representation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now, I'm asking you, what kind of representation is this? Who's... (votes-factual) There's no actual representation. Who is the bearer of the mandate of the MPs, to whom the Republic Election Commission, according to its final final report, has assigned mandates: to the electoral lists. So on this basis, it would be the applicant for the election list who determines the candidate for MPs, and the electoral lists to have MPs in the Assembly relatively his representation in the Serbian Parliament. Because that's the will of the citizens. The last, clearly shown in the 23rd direct elections, and it seems to me on 10 January, when we had another addition of parliamentary elections to the Serbian Parliament. It's four electoral lists, and you can do it all that way. We have gone a little further to the amendments, we have tried to tell you that it is not important to choose only between 250 MPs; that all those on the electoral lists, as they have the right to be MPs in the Serbian Parliament, are entitled to be MPs in the Assembly of this calling state. Because, we'll come to that, some MPs would have to resign for the people on the list to become MPs. And why is that? We could have dealt with it in a much simpler way, since, as we interpret this bill, the termination of the MP's mandate will not mean the end of the term of office of MPs in the Assembly of the Communities. It is obvious because they will be able to be messengers in the congregation and those who are not messengers of the people. So, they will not be bound by their mandate, and the mandate should be immediately bound in a delegate principle. If you delegate from the National Assembly to the Assembly of the Communities, then when his original mandate ceases here, the mandate he received on the basis of his original mandate should stop. But, well, it's not that controversial. The dispute is that this composition of parliamentary groups, which will decide on equal representation, differs from the electoral will of citizens and you cannot deny it. The electoral will of the citizens was DOS - 176, SPS - 37, I apologize if I make a mistake, we - 23, the Soviet Union - 14, that is the electoral will of the citizens and we are not interested in how you, within the framework of the DOS, will share the mandates, never interested us. Neither who will be president of the assembly nor chairman of the board. That's the right you gained from 176 terms of office. These 176 mandates were divided by 250, which is a percentage of which DOS, the DOS electoral list, participates in 91 terms. And what it is: sixty or what I know, it's your mandates. You can't have 70 seats now. If the election results guarantee you 60, that's it. What you have managed to do by ending the electoral will of several parliamentary groups, and now that these parliamentary groups are participating, because they should be evenly represented, it has nothing to do with the elections, it has nothing to do with democracy, it has nothing to do with parliamentaryism. I thought this depletion of your strength, expressed in these two years, would teach you some order and brains. You remember the first day of January 2000, you couldn't get into this room, because you were magnificent, winners, you can do anything, you can do anything. You remember how the Martian cut down the MPs of the opposition. Today I enjoy what you're doing with DSS MPs. It's a manner that you've all applied together on sprawl radicals. Now, listen and watch what it looks like from the DSS when the MP's majority of the ossions and the boasts and when he doesn't respect the Rules of Procedure. And, when she's just waiting for the opportunity to vote what her will is, and this seems to be the opportunity -- to vote something that is your will and not the will of the voters. What if the composition of the parliamentary groups is changed after the election? It should always reflect the proportionate representation of the assembly of your community of states. And what if they spill over, and from one of the MPs' groups go to another or they form a... Here are the Labourists forming a group of 15 MPs. They come out here with a proposal to be represented there with two or three MPs in parliament so-called. community. You'll say no, we've made the election, but they're looking for a proportionate representation guaranteed by Article 20. Constitutional statutes. I resent you not calling that day - election for MPs. And you said -- the president of the National Assembly is calling a session where the election of MPs will be held. Well, he's got to call elections for the community of states. It's the day the election is held. Just because they're circumstantial doesn't mean they're not choices. The elections are solemnly marked. But, as it wasn't a ceremony when you declared the Charter, only Zoran Djindjic laughed, and the rest of you didn't realize what he was laughing at, so so do you. And Article 7, here I am finishing, because I don't know if I've timed out, he says, "The proposal for electing MPs on behalf of the mandated proposal is submitted by the president of the parliamentary group in the National Assembly. "Who's the authorized promoter? Who shall be the authorising officer if the proposal is submitted by the president of the parliamentary group. What's the name of this authorized promoter? What function does he have? Is it just a name or is it based on the function it performs? Is that the applicant for the election list? Should the president of the parliamentary group have the authority, the authorized authority before the electoral commission by the author or the applicant of the electoral list. Is it just a name or is it based on the function it performs? Is that the applicant for the election list? Should the president of the parliamentary group have the power to be certified before the Electoral Commission by the author or applicant of the electoral list? Furthermore, Article 10 states: "The proposal for a parliamentary group is being delivered to the Republic Election Commission". Who submits a proposal from the parliamentary group: a parliamentary group, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or the Administrative Committee? The proposal is being delivered. But who delivers the proposal and who will answer if he doesn't deliver the proposal? Of course, in the debate on amendments, we will point out some other shortcomings to you and to Article 19, which has prejudged the Constitutional Court's decision and expelled the provision of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament to suspend the term of office by ending membership in the political party or coalition on whose election list he was elected as MP. It has to be in this law. We gave that amendment. If the Constitutional Court considers it unconstitutional, it will be deleted from both laws and from the original Law on the selection of MPs and this implemented, indirect law on the election of MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. In this way things would be quite in order, by never counting on some great legitimacy and legality until we have made the first direct elections and for the Serbian Parliament. I accept the part of your discussion in which you say that it is now reflected here and shows some other will than the one shown in the elections. But I don't accept that this is how the Assembly is supposed to work. The assembly, until new elections, should do what the people wanted in the last election. We are not owned here to overcome the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and if they wanted one political party to have 30 MPs, so many MPs must have until the next election. Because you're not an election committee here, you're not a people here, you're one majority here, you want to cement this way of choosing and transfer it to the Assembly, let's call it a common state that's going to last for two years, and maybe it won't last two years. It is only to remain in power, not to keep the state and parliament functioning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26065	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula, after him Dragan Shormaz. It is the last reported mountaineer in a row of MPs in the principle debate. The time available for the DSS Parliament Club is 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26066	Key institutions - President of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - are valid. The Serbian government, based on very thin public support, and the press already points out that such a bill has played out betting quotas, noting that there are transfers of lists and transitional deadlines in Serbia's parliament. Under such a proposal, the mandates of the Members of Parliament are taken away. This represents an artificial end to the electoral will of citizens. The DSS MPs' club is in favour of electing MPs, according to the state that existed in December 2000, after the election for the assembly. So we defend the principle of acquired rights that cannot be ignored. The assembly of the joint parliament should express the will of citizens, which was expressed in the December 2000 election of MPs. The relative representation of political parties held by MPs must be taken into account, according to the state on the day of the Assembly's constitution. The term of office of the Members has been acquired by the elections. The right acquired cannot be abolished or violated by new norms while the term of office continues. Legal security requires that legal rights are not violated. It is one of the postulates of sound legal logic and legal policy. Non-compliance with this principle leads to a deficit of legitimacy or a reduction of support. I wonder if this sudden tension in southeastern Serbia should help restore government support to an emerging semi-trailer. This bill has a hidden retroactive fact, as if it wanted the parliament of the common state to look like this assembly, and this assembly is increasingly a place where only the voting button is pressed, and it decides nothing. It's decided elsewhere. There's no parliamentaryism here. I have the impression that this bill returns to the theory that the true will of the ruling class.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26067	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26068	Dear People's appointed MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I have prepared, with an excellent party lawyer, five pages of densely typed, printed, to try to explain here why this feathered law is illegal, which is why it is illegal, which is why it is not good, which is why it is bad. But unfortunately, this debate today has led me to scrape half of it and try to say something in plain language, so that people who watch the transfer understand why the DSS proposal is the only valid basis for the indirect election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly to use and exploit the results of the 2000 elections and the assembly of parliament in that period. This whole day's nervous behavior of the bill promoter has made me think about trying to figure out why I'm so nervous. It seems to me that the first reason is that this bill, first of all, is a violation of the pre-election promise, which was made in 2000 to the citizens of Serbia, when it is told to those same citizens who voted for us: choose us now, we have joined together, 18 of us, to bring down Slobodan Milosevic, to bring system laws, the most important ones, to bring the new Constitution of Serbia, within a year and a half to discuss new elections and then each of us to be represented in parliament. That's where it's gone. We didn't all lie. The DSS has been calling on parliament to do so since day one. Unfortunately, these others did not accept such a thing. It's done exactly the opposite. These others are, of course, the rest of DOS already now. What do you do all the time? Well, of course, like any government, and this executive government in Serbia is trying to create a good environment for itself, and only then, with such an ambience, will it try to do more in the next election. And people do what they do. But one thing is not clear to them. I will try to tell them simply, with one sentence to address the rest of the DOS, in the same way that the self-called prime minister addressed us here, and otherwise by our law, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia -- you will never have a good result and you will never win the election, whether they were in 2003, in 2004; they will not win you people. You're free. I was really surprised by Mr Jovanovic's last appearance, because as far as I know about democracy, the electoral will of every citizen is sacred. It is sacred to every member of the DSS and for us is the electoral will of every citizen, who voted for you, too, sacred. It seems to me that Mr Jovanovic has failed all those citizens with whom and for whom, when he even had a rare courage to walk with a dozen people along the street in Belgrade, he defended someone's electoral will. This is a classic example of how a man can be corrupted by power. I fought my way, Mr. Jovanovic on mine. I respected what he was doing, but he seems to have forgotten very quickly what he was doing. I'd have a question for some political parties who support this, to think about it, before they vote tomorrow, why would they vote for a proposal like this, to think about it tonight, until tomorrow, because the morning is smarter than the evening. I understand why the PDS will vote for this law, what few there are, should Perisic be a member of parliament again, not to lose his mandate, not to lose his immunity. What happens when he has to go to court? I understand why they will support the Civil Union of Serbia -- they have more functions than they have party members. But I don't understand why they will support the Democratic Party of Serbia. For example, today came out in the daily press -- 70% of Serbian citizens anger independent Serbia. They are the only political party to advocate it. When is the better time for you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party of Serbia, if not now to discuss elections and go out on your own? I don't know when you'll get a better time, if not right now. You knock us all out in the election, win, and you're the power. What if you had a few ministers, if you could have the whole government? That's why I urge you to consider tonight and vote against this bill tomorrow. I have one question for the great legal experts from the Democratic Party. One of them is the chairman of the Legislative Committee and the other is the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Pajtic and Ristic. We now have these MP groups "Serbia" and the People's Socialists, so I am interested if one of the people's Socialists, who is a member of the Republic Parliament, in this way, if your bill passes, becomes an MP in that federal parliament, resigns for health reasons, which lists and by what law will the MP be replaced by in the Republic Parliament. For example from "Serbia", Mr. Zivko Selakovic is an older man, the heart is a weak thing, something happens, who will and from which lists in the Republic...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26069	Please, People's Parliament, pay attention to the way you address other people's MPs, with the full understanding of the emotions that carry you. Good health and a desire for good health all of us understand. Not in a joke, not in a metaphor, please don't use such examples.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26070	It's clear to me that the first time you broke the laws, the Constitution, you weren't punished, you kept doing it, you do it every day, and you think you'll never be punished for it. I'll tell you some sentences, which of course aren't mine, some smarter and smarter people wrote them, so try to think about it by tomorrow: no one has finally fallen without being able to come back. There's hope for you, too. There's hope for you, you can come back, you can become people, but a man has to be responsible for what he does and that responsibility is...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26071	Please, MP, you are addressing the entire National Assembly and the expression that anything should be done to make the National Assembly a gathering of those "who become men" inadmissible and I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26072	Repent, and you will not be punished. If you do not repent, that you will be punished by the people, that is nothing, you will certainly be punished in the first subsequent elections, but those other penalties I think you should be more careful.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26073	You have no right to a replica, and I ask you to move on. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search whether they want the words of the pedestals, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not yet used his right under Article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word wants a National MP, Nada Kolundzija, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Democratic Toolernativa.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26074	Dear Mrs. Comic, distinguished fellow Members of the People, we can of course always choose a corner from the point of view of our party interests, broader, narrower, more suited to us and always someone is dissatisfied, but it is a little insult to the intelligence that those who have made laws that have no "d" from democracy are not satisfied, and now they call us and teach us about democracy. So we can say that this law may not reflect in the best way what the electoral will is, but it really raises the question of what is the citizens' electoral will on the voter's list of coalitions, as measured, how many percent to whom it belongs. There is no dispute that some know exactly what the electoral will is that they have won in the elections, and no one has questioned this law, as far as I know. No one, therefore, is at risk. Of course, we've been called all kinds of names here, and I just don't think we should comment. They're talking about themselves, not us. It's also a big problem for us, like a parliamentary group who's trying to contribute to what's some kind of joint effort, and we appreciate everyone's efforts to do something better here, to sit here and listen to the ugliest things that have been telling us those who've done ugly things to us for ten years. That's why lustration is necessary. Unfortunately, we didn't do it, but I really hope we do it all the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26075	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26076	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the government has given support to the bill submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The written report you received, and I did not go out with the intention to explain it more, since the debate has caused a lot of participants, various arguments have been made and the fact that the Government is supporting the promoter does not, of course, mean that the law will be passed because he needs your support. So I dare try, respecting all the arguments that have been made, to remind you of a few things that are important to decide. We're facing indirect elections. I don't want any of you. I believe, therefore, that there is little one, even if no one in this room was to be elected to that assembly in the indirect elections. It was the cost of preserving the community with Montenegro. Unfortunately, we must make such choices. So it's an indirect election. We can't decide today. As soon as we accept that fact as such, as something inapplicable, if we look openly and honestly at everything we are faced with as a consequence of this fact, we have to accept one thesis that a colleague Jocic rightly said, that it is a fundamentally adventurous instrument and that calling for the real will of the people in the indirect elections is simply not realistic. It's not an indirect election mechanism for showing the true will of the people. What was the real will of the people was shown in the elections for the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. But these countries are gone, these congregations are gone, and we are creating a congregation of one community, I repeat, in indirect elections. Therefore, the 2000 elections were the will of the people, the last of which we know, but we also know that it is not such a will anymore, it is different. However, I repeat, we are facing indirect elections. Gentlemen, let me remind you of one more thing, since there is a lot of talk about the people's will and talk about the subjectivity of the parliamentary groups. Every time this parliament, and for a long time it has done so, elected MPs or earlier delegations to the Greater Republic or the Greater Republic and the provinces of the SFRY, or SRJ, this has been analysed by counterpart Nikolic, each time the proposings under the current laws of Serbia were just the parliamentary groups. That's all I remind you of. A colleague, Nikolic, had just correctly quoted the legal provisions of several laws. Of course, by the will of most you will decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26077	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word comes from MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26078	Ladies and gentlemen, today has been enough to say about this law. It's probably a lot of it's exhausted or everything's exhausted. I wouldn't have taken the end of the word if a few questions hadn't been raised in this debate. When there are no arguments usually, and almost from the same mouth, there is always an argument from the same individuals about what it was in the past ten years and from those who should first discuss in their party what their leaders have been doing for the past ten years. If someone here in the O.R. was supposed to discuss those ten years, then no one in the state and party functions was like the leaders of those individuals who have been talking about the past ten years here at the pay phone. It's very well known to the lady. What's been the past ten years can't be compared to these two years. We're talking about these two years now. Minister Sabic here told one truth, and that is what we have proposed as a law, that the electoral will of Serbian citizens to elect MPs in the state community is treated compared to September 2000, which is for the Greater Republic and the Greater Citizens. That's right. Of course, the argument that it is not respected is the fact, firstly, that we have received many MPs and it does not match DOS, I am not telling the Ministers for you. Secondly, as a public argument, it is that the DPS did not participate in the elections in Montenegro, so that it would not participate in the election of these MPs either. The Constitutional Charter does not prohibit the September 2000 election will being taken. We didn't insist on that either. We just insist that one electoral will, if not September's, then December's, respects the end and takes care of that election will. There was also an argument here that the election of MPs to the Greater Republic was done in this way. I must say that the election of MPs to the Greater Republic, as well as the committees of the Assembly, was mostly carried out by the agreement of the heads of parliament clubs based on percentages of votes received, except for those who did not want to participate. It's a second question, as no radicals are now involved in the committees. In principle, by agreeing with the heads of Parliament's clubs based on percentages of votes received. That's absolutely certain. At the very least, I took part in it as head of the Parliament Club. Tomo, you know that very well, we took part in it together. This led to the schedule of the number of mandates received in the committees as well as in the Greater Republic. That's the point. I've seen that we've been denied some amendments here with an explanation that they don't comply with the Constitutional Charter. It's in Article 3, where it's just about respecting voters' will in December's election in 2000. That's not explicitly forbidden in Article 3, as it's written here. It is not prohibited in Article 3 that political parties, which received the appropriate electoral authority and the appropriate support of voters in December 2000, propose candidates for the election of MPs. That's not in Article 3 at all. It's only explained here in Article 5, where it's given to the Administrative Board to decide how many MPs they're going to have. Given the experience with the Administrative Committee in the last five or six months, which in fact chooses and determines the number of MPs, it is hard to believe or, better say, it may even happen that some parliamentary groups are represented and are not giving MPs. That is why we think it is important for the parliamentary majority to see the need to respect the amendments in Articles 3 and 5 and to accept that the political will of the December 2000 voters is respected in the election of MPs for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26079	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. I know this is near the end of the afternoon session, that there is both fatigue and a fall in concentration, but I ask you to listen to the speaker in silence and with respect. Ambassador, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill of this law has caused certain negative passions. The only reason for that is contained, in our view of the matter, in Article 5 of the Law on selecting MPs. So we point out once again that MP groups cannot be political entities. MP groups are not participants in the election. They're forming. If the parliamentary groups do not represent the electoral will of citizens, then the election results are somehow faked. For this reason, the New Serbia parliamentary group will not support this law unless most of us accept our amendments. Our amendments concern the imitation of Articles 5 and 3 of the proposed law. Of course, other interventions would only be of a technical, lexic or linguistic nature. Once again, we point out that it's really not good for the current government to start looking like the old one. Let the government be authentic and let the people's will be respected to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26081	Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ( b) Proposer? The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who proposes the act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26082	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there is still room for argument, despite everything that has been said during today's debate. In all these attitudes, I recognize one fundamental problem, and I will ignore everything that is much more of an inaccuracies than congregation dialogues. Therefore, the only serious obstacle on the way of the Assembly's consensus on this law is not in the status of the proposing party, or whether the proposing party, coalition, parliamentary group or MP, but is in fact the only serious parliamentary dilemma that will be taken as a criterion for the division of mandates. There is no mathematical model that can be shared through parliamentary groups, MPs, parties or coalitions, and that this outcome is different in one or the other case, depending on the proposing, whether the parties are proposing, whether the coalition is a proposing MP. The existing parliamentary relations will always be reviewed, as for such views and such decisions, the majority will vote. The only serious question is whether the December 2000 situation or the situation at which these indirect elections are held will be taken into account. We, as legislators of this law, have defined ourselves for this second solution, so for the situation which is characteristic of this moment, first of all because we think it produces less damage than binding to the date of the Republic elections, so for December 2000; less damage, very concretely, because of the following facts -- those MPs are right, explaining their position and binding it to December 2000, said that at that time RIK had only verified four lists: DOS, SPS, SRS and SSJ. Given this weather event, it is clear that today, as authorised proposings, only authorised representatives and four electoral lists could appear. Therefore, not the authorised representatives of the parties who made up the electoral lists, but only the authorised representatives and the four electoral lists. In parallel with that, we proposed another model, a model that binds to this moment, so for existing congregation relations. Just as binding this decision for December 2000 has its bad consequences, so is the binding of our law, or the criteria for this existing moment, has its negative consequences. In both cases, we must use political pragmatism, because both decisions have been legally established - the December decision as a criterion is legally founded in the electoral will of citizens and in the decisions of the RIK, which confirm certain electoral lists. The decision we are referring to for the current moment is based on the Constitutional Charter and the illustrating of the existing situation would actually result in new conflicts and dilemmas within the existing lists, given that there has been a division in the meantime. So in both the first and second cases, there is absolutely no acceptable solution. So today a reasonable question is being raised, not even politically anymore -- whether we can create a future based on the past or on what is our reality. We'll make much less of a mistake if we create it based on what our reality is, than if we stick our head in the sand and make decisions that we'll be bound by a political past and relationships from two years ago. In both cases, only one party was practically damaged, and during the debate it was seen to be the SPS, which has been solving its problems for a year, partly before Parliament, through the Administrative Committee, but which cannot finally solve its problem in Parliament, at least until the final position of the Constitutional Court of Serbia is obtained. Because it is impossible for one party in parliament, whether it is the SPS, the SSJ or New Serbia, to recognise that it is the sovereign owner of the parliamentary mandate, not the MP who carries it, and in the other case, in the case of our coalition, such a right to exclude and take away that kind of freedom that we give to someone else in this House. At least in that case, the same principles must apply to everyone. If the DOS gave up that right and respected the need for Serbia's Constitutional Court to reconsider the constitutionality of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, in its Article 88, then at the same time we cannot be asked to accept a different principle as a basis for others. And as long as we're the parliamentary majority, as long as we're the majority of the board of directors, the same archaic will apply to everyone. So the only reasonable and comprehensive proposal is that the mandates in parliament can be held by parties, coalitions and political organisations that participated in the elections and presented in the assembly. That was just said in Article 3. I have noticed observations and alleged contradictions with regard to Article 5, but Article 5 defines the way MPs are elected, i.e. the proportion of which MPs will be represented in the new assembly of the state union. Is all this the happiest solution? We said it wasn't, and that's what we said when it was supposed to be said, so when the Constitutional Charter was adopted. But this parliament has received the constitutional charter as a document that can be accepted and rejected. Acceptance offered, we believe, a quality option. The rejection offered nothing more than deepening problems that had become unbearable anyway. Therefore, in all that has been said, only the need for reformation and the state union and Serbia, i.e. confirmed the need to exist, is confirmed by the existence of that parliamentary majority who is willing to do the job. Fearing DOS Serbia with the people and citizens is a wasteful job in advance, because we are confident that we are doing all of this precisely in the interests of this people and these citizens. To remind us of what we used to do was also a useless job, because we were actors of these events, and those who talk about it today, someone was describing and convincing it, because they were nowhere at that time. Neither when we were 10 in the Republic Square, nor when there were a million of us in front of the Yugoslav Parliament, never those people who are out of this political business today benefiting from any benefit were there beside us. And since we were able to finish this job both in 1999 and 2000, we are ready to finish it today and to tell the citizens of Serbia -- yes, we have taken responsibility for solving the chaos that was inherited, which is due to the most different influences, not just the wishes of our predecessors to destroy this country, and in this business, unless we have support, we expect at least a fair relationship, which will not be setting up unnecessary obstacles. Because it was enough to say in December 2000 that you didn't want to be in DOS anymore, because you were in DOS just because you wanted to take it down as soon as possible, it was enough to say that you didn't want to work on the Constitutional Commission on the Constitutional Charter, because in that commission you did everything to make sure that the Constitutional Charter was never adopted. It was enough to say that you did not want to vote for the Constitutional Charter, instead of voting for it in the Commission, and then tried to bring it down here in Parliament on 27 January. And today you are again trying to tear it down just because you think the political fate of a man or a party is worth how much the political fate of the two republics, Serbia-Montenegro. Once again, we owe an apology to those citizens who think their electoral will is hurt. Our intention wasn't to challenge anyone's right to vote, quite the contrary, but on existing occasions, it's really impossible to measure that electoral will after three years, especially within a coalition and say - who voted for it on 23 December and what he voted for. On December 23rd, did someone within our coalition vote for what we are creating today or for what could have been created, we will determine in the first direct elections for this state community in two years; and give it an opportunity for those who want to work so that they can do something, because it is enough without you. If it depends only on your problem, make sure we do everything anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26083	The word has a People's MP, Zoran R. Angelkovic, mentioning the party, a replica on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26084	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to say that the only damage is to the SPS, and it is particularly not enough to say that the issue cannot be resolved until the Serbian Constitutional Court discusses Article 88. Whether or not the Constitutional Court will discuss this article in 88, we are not interested in it at all. We're not asking for this member to argue at all, nor are we looking, nor are we interested in it at all, nor was the Constitutional Court discussing it. As long as that member of the law is valid, this parliament has an obligation to respect him. That's the point. DOS gave up his right to change his MPs. For what reason? From your lack of courage or because someone from abroad called and said, don't do it, or because they can't agree. It's your business and we don't care. You're saying you can't ask us to respect Article 88. The law and return your mandates when we don't do it for us. What you don't do for you, that's your business. Return our mandates, because these are our mandates. And you, if you want, throw out whoever you want, that's your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26085	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Shormaz does not have the right to reply, a definitive decision by the Rules of Procedure. The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, who is entitled to replication based on the mention of the political party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26086	I really thought that Mr Jovanovic's statement, that only the SPS's mandate had been lifted, had simply been lost because of his youth and carelessness. Since he reiterated that statement for the second time, I warn him, let him make a good calculation: Mr Jovanovic, you have suspended the mandate and New Serbia with this bill. The fact that you now feel with post-wise intelligence that individuals are the owners of the mandate is simply a matter that we now dispute. We're just pointing out that New Serbia owns its parliamentary quota. Simply, this habit of kidnapping and such petty stealing within the family took some condition of the epidemic. First you cut us off in the Federal Parliament. We had Mr Jovanovic and three MPs in the federal parliament. One's gone. You took our seats in the City Hall and now they're gone. Here all MP groups of minor importance, i.e. the DOS parties had quota 9, as well as New Serbia. Only one New Serbia's mandate has evaporated and there is 8 left. Now you're reducing it to five. We only warn you, don't do it, keep those mandates, but keep our parliamentary quota for good relations and for the sake of honesty. Finally, your party placed one jump in some fair elections. Were you kidding?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26087	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the deputy president of the National Socialists Group, MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26088	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I think it's already the end of the debate on this bill. There's been a lot of talk here about election will, and it turns out in the good part that it's a private property of individuals. He forgets what the election will really means and the right of someone to vote for a list. The thesis has changed, and when it comes to the Socialists, certainly no one voted for Zoran Angelkovic, which is one fact, because we were all on the list whose carrier was Slobodan Milosevic. Zoran Angelkovic usually collects 200 people, and that's how he manages the entire party. The five of us don't agree to be his private MPs. When the Supreme Court or any other court decides on this, we will respect the will of the state, but not the will of an individual who has survived in the leadership for years, and the number of voters who vote for the Socialists is getting smaller and smaller. It is not disputed that we have formed a Socialist People's Party, we have formed it for the reason that the Socialists can reunite. They are gathering again, and for that are indicators of the elections that are happening in Serbia. We have no intention of any rematch, but what we think and what we want, we talk about it publicly. The fact that others put us in their private or personal contexts is just their personal problem. The future will show where the Socialists will be, but they will certainly not be in the place where Zoran Angelkovic sits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26089	Replica, MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, a replica; the basis for the replica to be directly mentioned by name in the presentation of the predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26090	Of course, there's nothing personal here. Only one problem, unfortunately, and Dragan Tomic voted for Zoran Angelkovic because he was under one, so he had to round it up to be an MP. That's the first problem. On January 18th, 4,000 delegates and guests said what the SPS is. That's a fact and that's the point. And 515,000 voters voted the SPS in December. Whether it's little or much, we'd like it to be more, if it were two million. We ask those 515,000 to be respected by both MPs and those who are no longer, sitting in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26091	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a principle search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26092	Mrs. Komic, you have violated all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the emergency procedure, and in particular Article 159(5), which does not allow you to open a search in individuals unless you have a statement by the legislator, committees and the Government on amendments. For the second procedure, it is possible, in principle, to debate, if it is urgent, to run without a report from the Committee and the Government, but you cannot open the debate in particular until the draft act, competent committees and the Government have made themselves known on amendments to the draft law. This is an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26093	The opening of the law-searching process in particular is in agreement with Article 136(3) and MP Tomislv Nikolic quoted the provisions of Article 159 concerning the examination of the amendments. It may propose that the Assembly decide, but no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done by opening a review of the Bills in particular for two reasons. First, what has been done before the chairman’s notice, as regards the work of this assembly in search of the draft laws in particular. Secondly, what you can propose is that the Assembly be declared, even if the committees in charge do not submit a report within the set deadline for the draft law can be carried out in the National Assembly without reports from the Committee. The government made proposals and opinions on the draft law within the deadline set. The amendment to the draft law under emergency procedure may be submitted no later than the start of the search, and this has been fulfilled. Amendments shall be made by the legislator, the competent committees and the Government. The bill promoter is present in the O.R. and can declare himself orally during the session. The competent committees, i.e. One competent committee has sent a full report, we can get a report from the other committee in the course of the work, and you can make a proposal for the Assembly to make a statement as to whether it wants to wait for a printed report from the Justice Committee. Do you want me to... The MP in talks with the chairman from the bench says there is no member of the Rules of Procedure that states that the Assembly can wait. [[Comment by MP Tomislav Nikolic from the hall is not heard]] That's not what I said. I said that you could make a proposal that the Assembly formally declares itself on the draft law in particular, regardless of what you have information that it is about printing the report of the Justice Committee, and you received from the Legislative Committee. The legislator is there, and he can accept the amendments and refuse as a proposing. The government has filed a report for you. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Administrative Board to declare itself?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26094	If I'd known I'd put my finger in a hornet's nest with this proposal, I'd never have taken it out. Forget it, Mrs. Comic, everything I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26095	I thank and realize that the MP has accepted the wrong assessment of the application of the Rules of Procedure. So, we move on to a review of the bill in particular. The name of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija under the name of the bill. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Srdjan Sikimic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26096	Dear Members of Parliament, the idea to intervene in the title of the law comes from a formulation contained in Article 20. The Constitutional Charter and Article 5(1). The law implementing the Constitutional Charter, which regulates state union member states to elect MPs for Serbia-Montenegro's parliament. For this reason, we felt it was necessary to specify that this law regulates the election of Serbian MPs to the future parliament, and therefore our intervention is in the direction of precision of such a determination of the title of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26097	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment cannot be accepted and I'm surprised that it was proposed by someone who spent ten months of state money building a constitutional charter. The law cannot be called a law on the election of Serbian Parliamentarians because MPs in the Assembly of the United States can also be MPs of the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic, and this would mean that the title of the law is in direct collegiate with its provisions. And now I'm just seeing how this quasi-supervisal commission spent state money on its own spending.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26099	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 1 on which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The legislative break considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 2 on which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The legislative break considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 3 to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Petar Cvetkovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26100	Article 3 The bill says political parties, political coalitions and other organisations represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia participate in the mandate. The first position of this member is perfectly fine and in accordance with the positive legal rules. However, the second member of the proposal says - a candidate for MPs may be a national MP, and in the first elections, I underline - in the first elections, for MPs of the Assembly and federal MP of the Council of Citizens, or the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. Under this proposal, only in the first elections can the candidate and current MP of the Federal Assembly be. In accordance with this Article 2. The bill can only be proposed for the first time by an MP of the Federal Assembly, and according to Article 20, it is possible to replace a federal MP to whom the term of office has ceased. The opposite of Article 3 with Article 20 is obvious. It's a bill of law. The DSS has made an amendment to Article 3. A bill that completely changes the formulation of this member and correctly determines the election of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Community Assembly, which reads: "Employees are elected from the ranks of MPs and federal MPs from both council members. MPs are elected so that the political party that has MPs on the day of the call for indirect elections will be represented in the Assembly in proportion to the number of MPs who had on the day of the establishment of the National Assembly. The political party independently proposes candidates for MPs. "Unlike one incomprehensible and contradictory proposal of Article 3 of the Proposer, the DSS gives an amendment, i.e. a new formulation of Article 3, which is fully explained, clear and in accordance with the positive regulations and applicable laws, and in particular the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. The formulation that political parties, political coalitions and other organisations represented in the National Assembly are participating in the distribution of mandates is too declarative and thus too high. In addition, the legislator shall withdraw from the law in Article 5(1). The bill, which stipulates that the number of mandates is determined according to the parliamentary groups. I link this illogicality and our pointing out that in the election process for the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, only political parties and coalitions, not parliamentary groups, can appear and participate, which are merely technical organisation in order to facilitate the functioning of parliament. That is literally what the legislator himself acknowledges in his proposal, so attitude 1 opposes the second position of Article 3, as well as Article 20 of the proposal. The election of MPs in the National Assembly according to the mandates of political parties at the moment of the last elections held on 23 December 2000 is at least for two reasons far more just than the election of MPs by parliamentary groups. First and foremost, because this way of choice is legal. Because, according to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, belonging to a political party is the reason for obtaining and suspending the mandate of MPs. Then, because this would regulate and neutralise all the indifferences and illegalities in the work and in the composition of the National Assembly, which were created from the constitution to the calling of elections for MPs. We have also indicated that with regard to parliamentary groups there may be changes, and will come, here some parliamentary groups have been invented and formed precisely because of the election of MPs. After the election, MPs will disappear from the political scene and from the work of this parliament. Does this mean that, although it is practically impossible, it is necessary to re-change the assembly of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. I therefore call, for the sake of justice and for the sake of legality, for you to accept this DSS amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26101	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is made by the president of the DSS parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26102	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the proposed amendment to the DSS just wants the Law on selecting Members of the People to be complied with until the end. That's one thing. Second, to obey the Constitutional Charter until the end. To the proposed members 3. The bill says MPs of the Federal Assembly can only participate in the first indirect elections. What happens if, for example, the future federal state union can't establish its federal authorities, so that the assembly disbands, so it goes back to indirect elections. This means that the current federal MPs, from this call, will no longer be able to be candidates, since they are only talking about the first elections. This article is unclear and contrary to other members, contrary to Article 5, and therefore there is a great need for it to be brought into line, so that we do not have any ambiguity in the implementation of this law. Such ambiguities in the laws that we have previously passed, such as the Law on the Selection of Presidents of the Republic and other laws, have much and therefore we have the opportunity to interpret these provisions extensively, to use various analogies that are often unfair, both against the law and against the constitution. Discussing the provisions of this member by DSS MPs concerns clarification, precision and precise determination of how to run in elections and ensure continuity between the SR of Yugoslavia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In the first two years, no matter how many times it will be in the middle of the election of the constitutional Assembly of the state union, the MPs from the last assembly of the Federal Parliament of the SR Yugoslavia can run. Also, this member is contrary to Article 5 where parliamentary groups appear. This article says: "The allocation of mandates to the Assembly is attended by political parties, political coalitions and other organisations." It's probably meant by a union that's grown into a Labourist or some other party. But that's probably true. These two members are opposed, we don't know which member will apply and who will and how to apply. But it is obvious that the intention, as we have said, is to make this law as vague as possible and to leave to the parliamentary majority the possibility of tailoring itself to its own measure and interpreting this law, as we had the opportunity to see in the case of Natasa Micic and the unscheduling of the presidential elections. So our amendment goes in the direction of respecting the citizens' will expressed in the 2000 elections, to respect the citizens' will as it stands, because it is for us a reality. There is no other reality if we want to respect other laws and to define this precisely, in order to allow the smooth functioning of the National Community Assembly and to ensure continuity between the SR of Yugoslavia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26103	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26104	We've been here all day listening to DOS argues about how this law should look and who's to blame for the situation in the country. But both of you have an easy way of agreeing on Article 3. I didn't want to write an amendment to that member to correct you one more mistake, but I'm going to point to her now. According to article 3, the motioner predicted that in the first elections for the new Assembly, the candidate could also be the federal MP of the Greater Citizens, or the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. The applicants of this amendment deleted it, transferred it to the first position that it could be both national and federal MPs. Now I ask you nicely, since it is necessary to respect the will of the citizens: what you did not foresee for Vojislav Kostunica could be an MP. He has nothing to do now. It doesn't even have a function, it doesn't have anything. Which you weren't human to write: in the first, bar, elections and president of the SR of Yugoslavia may be a candidate for MPs. It doesn't make sense, really. They'd still put him on the job and education thing. It really doesn't make sense. You can still make it right. There is also a representative of the Government and a representative of the Proposer. If it wasn't for him, none of you would have been Prime Minister either. There's Pitiæ and Ristic. All of you were brought here by Vojislav Kostunica. Make him, at least in the first session, along with Micunovic, an MP, as much as Micunović, so much so that we can clear up with this DOS and get the job done.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26105	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the amendment to Article 3, which was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrović, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic together submitted together. The Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has a word from MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of SPS MPs have tabled an amendment to Article 3 of the decree on the appointment of MPs, submitted by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. It's not a lapus. I didn't make a mistake, because it's not about the law, it's about the decree and the appointment of MPs. By law, this can only be called by someone to whom the exercise of power lies so that it can only be carried out by naked force. By the way, it's a real decree about the appointment. If the billmaker had the courage, he would have gathered full courage and wrote in one sentence - MPs in the new assembly of the state community are elected by Zoran Djindjic making a list of MPs , and the president of the Natasa Micic Assembly and Mr Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Administrative Board, stamped the list. [[Sagar...]] This would be much fairer for the citizens of Serbia, because Serbian citizens realized that this would make MPs. Article 3, which we have submitted to the amendment, reads: "The mandates in the Assembly are being allocated by political parties, political coalitions and other organisations represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". This text has left room for manipulation, i.e. for everything Mr. Cirkovic has fantastically explained. So DOS first started off from the number of mandates he needed, and then he decided how to choose. Mr. Zirkovic drew it fantasticly today. This text of the law gives them a terrible opportunity to apply Article 88, i.e. to the terrible selection of that member. Serbian citizens know this fantastically, because they wonder where MP Selakovic, MP Karaičić, MP Tomic, MP Bajcetic, who were members of the PDS; at the moment when their mandate, when they were expelled from the party, sat down the Administrative Committee the next day and took the mandates under article 88m. Where MP Novkovic of the Federal Parliament, who, by analogy of members 88, left the Democratic Party and immediately took his mandate, was given to someone else. The daily withdrawals of office by analogy in the municipal parliaments were discussed by Mr Petrovic of the Serbian Unity Party. Every day, you can find three of the terms of office taken from you by article 88. We have proposed that political parties and political coalitions, who participated in the parliamentary and republican elections in 2000 under the corresponding electoral lists, were represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the day of the constitution. What did we want? We wanted to prevent the arrival of the majority and the parliamentary mandates of tricks, because DOS has in recent times been before the eyes of the entire local public, using tricks, made 130 out of 120 mandates, but for these tricks we only knew in the domestic public. The BBC has declared almost one show the most successful trick of the month the trick of David Copperfield, who made three out of one rabbit. They probably haven't heard of this trick, that one of the 120 MPs made 130. They may have heard, but they think since the Phoenicians invented the money, it's not much of a trick. So, the aim of this amendment was to prevent electoral mathematics, which Cirkovic spoke of, from reaching an exact way of respecting voters' will, or MPs from choosing not by parliamentary groups, but by selecting a list given by the election commission in December's elections. I hope you adopt this amendment. Someone said you had time to fix it, it's not too late, and you can continue your tricks in the Federal Assembly. It's no problem for you. I understand that power is not easy to surrender. So I have excuses for you, but it's a question of whether the citizens can understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-12-0.u26107	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) This concludes the afternoon work of today's session, with notice that the 39th session of the Justice and Administration Committee will be held at 10.00 p.m., in the second floor hall. We continue the session tomorrow morning, Thursday 13 February, at 10.00 hours, by discussing the draft law in particular - the amendment to Article 3 submitted by MPs Zoran Ćirkovic, Zlata Djeric and Miodrag Stamenkovic. Thank you.
