ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to pay our respects to our colleague, the late MP Slobodan Pavlovic, for a moment of silence. Praise him! I would like the chairman of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Zarko Obradovic, to give notice to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29361	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to inform you that today in Mladenov, starting at 15.00 hours, a memorial session on the death of Slobodan Pavlovic will be held in the Assembly of the Municipality, and at 1600 hours there will be a funeral at the cemetery in Mladenovec, so who can come from his colleagues and admirers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29362	I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 158 MPs. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs in order to determine the quorum required for the work of the National Assembly. I find that we have established that there is a quorum necessary for the work and decision of the National Assembly, since 147 MPs attend the session. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Meho Omerovic, Milan Radulovic and Kasa Jožef; (before noon) Predrag Stojanovic and Miomir Tadic. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with the logs of the Fifth and Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly this year, and since we have the quorum for decision-making and after checking in the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Committee, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has been sent in writing to the minutes of those sessions, we are moving to a decision on the logs. I am voting on the minutes of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 15, 16, 17, 18 and 22 April this year. For 127, no one with abstentions voted 55 out of 182 MPs. I agree that we adopted the minutes from the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. Secondly, I put to the vote the minutes of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003, held on 22, 23 and 24 April 2003. For 130, no one with abstentions voted 54, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Dejan Michael, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29363	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a matter of the Rules of Procedure. Since we were convinced yesterday from the RTS director's statement that direct TV is being broadcast depends on the decision of this assembly and if the Assembly makes a decision that they will be, I ask the question - when did the Serbian Parliament decide to abolish TV? Of course, a period at a time of emergency, where there may have been some need to abolish, but in a regular state, means in all other cases - when did the Serbian Parliament decide to shut down TV?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29364	The National Assembly did not decide to abolish direct transmission. On the contrary, the decision of the National Assembly is still in force that there is a direct transmission. I think we're going to reach a consensus here, and I think it's the interest of the entire National Assembly that there's a transfer, that we're available to the public, and in this regard, as chairman, I've scheduled a meeting with the committee responsible, which is the Committee on Culture and Information, and the representatives of RTS, to reach an agreement on this issue. That meeting will be held tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29365	I suggest that the Assembly declare today that there are direct TV broadcasts from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29366	People's MP, that decision already exists. The National Assembly has a decision that there is a direct transfer, therefore, as you know as a lawyer, cannot be decided twice on the same thing. Why should we make a statement about something that already exists? There is a decision of the National Assembly that is still in force. I think it's your interest that there's such a decision. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29367	Dear fellow Members of the People, I must say that I am reporting for the same thing. We know that in times of emergency, direct transfers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been suspended. The state of emergency was lifted two or three weeks ago, so if there is a decision, and I agree that twice should not vote on the same decision, a logical question arises -- why is this session of the Serbian Parliament not being passed on today? What does that mean - we'll make a deal? The decision exists as such and must be applied. If the congregation is to negotiate with others about something that has already been passed, it means that the apriors are to question whether it will be or not. It would be logical for today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be transmitted. The story of a difficult economic situation is a story for small children. This same assembly has, by a congregation majority, taken the decision to abolish the subscription, as the basic source of funding for RTS work. So the logical question arises, and you, the president of the National Assembly, are obliged to answer the National Assembly because you suspended the transfer - why is there no transmission today?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29368	I didn't suspend it, and neither do I. So there is a decision of the National Assembly that there is a direct transmission. Why isn't he here? We'll talk about it tomorrow on the board of directors. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29369	Dear People's MPs, I can't figure out what Mrs. Chairman was going to say. If there is a decision of the National Assembly, the question arises - who is older in this case, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or the RTS? As long as the National Assembly is the founder of Serbia's Radio-Television, which it is now, it cannot negotiate with lower bodies, or we disqualify ourselves as the National Assembly and as the MPs. Do as the National Assembly has decided and respect at least one of your own assets that you have chosen during the previous regime, which are transferred by a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and allow the public of Serbia to no longer be illegal but to be available to the public. So once again I ask the question, what's here older, the National Assembly or Radio-Television? How long will we humiliate ourselves and put ourselves in a position to negotiate with an ordinary service of Serbian citizens, with an ordinary means of information such as Serbia's Radio-Television? So I don't see any reason why we're still working in the illegals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29370	Mr. Pelevic, that's exactly what this is about. That is why there has been such a change, that the National Assembly is no longer the founder of RTS, according to the law adopted by the Assembly. That's why we want to make a deal with RTS. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, at the last session, I have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure and asked for direct transfers of assembly meetings, which is to respect the parliament's decision, which was made in time and which obliged RTS and the Serbian Assembly to allow direct transfers of assembly sessions. After explaining the chairman, Mrs Komic, in the morning part of the session and Mrs Micic in the afternoon part of the session, that there are no technical conditions, that the transfer will be, but when not known, I asked that the Administrative Committee be made known. Until today, the Management Board has not spoken of it, although it is in accordance with Article 96(6). Rules of Procedure, that's what you're bound to do. In light of the explanation of the chairman, we have now realised that the decision of the Administrative Committee and we have no reason why the Administrative Committee would have to say that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, because Mrs Micic has now said and confirmed what I said last time, that there is a decision of this assembly and that it must be respected until Parliament decides otherwise. We didn't decide otherwise. We didn't even discuss it. That's not what the vote was about. Therefore, I ask that tomorrow from 10.00 hours, respect for this Parliament's decision, if we want to respect the institutions of the system. There's no discussion here. None of this parliament nor its committee can pass on that it decides or negotiates something he has decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29372	I call on the Administrative Board to respond to the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic's remarks. Secondly, I call on Parliament member Gordan Pop-Lazic to participate in the security of transmission at tomorrow's meeting, to attend a meeting with RTS leadership. The meeting included a draft agenda for the session, complementing the agenda since 7 May 2003. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the scene: to make a statement about the decision. ) The decision of the National Assembly on the existence of direct transmission exists. The National Assembly cannot handle the same thing twice. I think we're done with that. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on a proposal to merge the debate. National MP Siniša Mitrovic, based on Article 86. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a discussion be brought together on the draft law on financial leases and the proposal for a concession law (points 1 and 2 of the proposed agenda). Does the MP Sinisa Mitrovica want a word? No, I don't. ) I put this motion to the vote on the merger of debates by the points that I have cited. For 109 against 96, the abstentioned were not voted by three, out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29373	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, I will remind you of article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, what does the Committee on Culture and Information do: it examines proposals for laws, other regulations and general acts and other issues in the fields of culture and public information, but proposals that go to the Assembly. Please, this House has not declared to transfer its intelligence to the Information Committee. If you want to do so, put the proposal to a vote. Allow the MPs and the National Assembly to decide whether to transfer their powers to the Committee in this case. This is possible when some survey committees are formed, including temporary working bodies, including permanent working bodies. Do not decide on our behalf, for you are merely the chairman of the National Assembly. You're not the National Assembly. The National Assembly are these 250 people sitting here. So, my concrete proposal is to put it to the vote, so that the Assembly declares whether our own information on further negotiations, if necessary, in order to ensure the decision of the National Assembly, is transferred to the competent information committee, or whether we consider the committee responsible for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29374	I repeat, there is a decision by the National Assembly on the existence of direct transmission. The Committee on Culture and Information solves a technical problem together with the leadership of RTS. Article 41 of the general provisions states: "To consider and search questions from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly", etc.... and to look at the state of policy in the area for which each committee is in charge and to do other jobs, the committees are educated." So, for all matters of Parliament's jurisdiction and policy-making. That's my answer. Let's move on to the agenda. If you are not satisfied with the answer, the Administrative Board will give you an answer. I'm scheduled a board meeting for today at 1400 hours. You'll get an answer. We're continuing to determine the agenda. I am voting on the draft agenda of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003 in general. For 113, against 58, the abstentions were not voted 39, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft agenda for today's session. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Financial Lising Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a concession law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law on the Guarantee Fund, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. The selection of a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We're going to work on a set agenda. No, there is no provision that MPs can make proposals under the Rules of Procedure, can harm the Rules of Procedure if you do. Find me a member that says you can make suggestions, there isn't, there isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29375	We have an interesting situation in the congregation: there is a decision on direct transmission, and it is not applied. In Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia say that, prior to the start of the debate, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to propose a longer debate, and I have come out to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the SPS - since two points of the agenda have been combined, which are not slightly related to each other, it is only what is said that the story of these two draft laws - double time, instead of five hours of discussing these two agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29376	I am putting on the vote by MP Zarko Obradovic to extend the debate on these points of the agenda in a joint principled search and that the debate lasts for 10 hours. For 99, against 105, a abstentioned one, six of the 211 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted a proposal to extend the debate on these points of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the draft laws proposed by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I would like representatives of the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists of registered MPs who want to talk about this agenda item. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Financial Lysing (Common principled search with the Proposal for a Law on concessions) I am opening a common principle search. Does the proposal's representative Goran Pitic, the minister of economic ties with abroad, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29377	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank you for understanding that these two laws go together. I must say, in addition to the normal reasons that some MPs are led not to accept a joint review of these two laws, I still have a brief comment -- these two laws and how they are connected and make up part of that reform law package that concerns creating a good business environment. Who understands what it means and how it understands why it is necessary to vote to discuss these laws in a common way. I'd like to spend the first few minutes dedicating the reasons for the adoption of the financial lease law, which you've had a chance to look at, to make certain amendments, to help us better consider whether there's room to improve this law and whether that's what we wanted when we started to come up with this law. This is a new law, it doesn't exist in our legislation. The topic in segments has been touched, especially in the Law on Liabilities, but nowhere in this way, comprehensively. The complexity of business involving financial leases as a new institute, a young branch in business, has been developing since the mid-50s, in a way bound by the US in Europe, has taken so much wave to impose the need for this important segment of business traffic to be regulated by law. It is indisputable that this law primarily means opening up potential for increasing investment in Serbia's economy. Financial licking is recognizable in modern modern market economies and the law on it relies on modern international achievements, on the one hand with regard to the creation of legal regulations based on comparative and legal systems, on solutions that have been achieved there, as well as on practices in all countries in our environment, where the area of financial lease is and how it has taken hold and contributed to the development of businesses in a faster way. The economic importance of financial lease business is that modern equipment is provided without the involvement of own capital and classical lending businesses, rather than giving space to those entering this three-dimensional partnership or the system of contracting between the donor, the supplier and the leaser, that the latter way without engaging their own capital essentially comes to modern equipment. Equipment, for which there is no lasting interest, essentially puts a function so that on behalf of the owner, the giver enters into a contractual obligation with the recipient of the lease, thus creating a kind of three-dimensional arrangement. When we entered the definition story of how to access it, when we opened up a series of questions about who could participate in these jobs, what is the treatment of cross-border lysing, which are some minimum deadlines for closing the lising, how we do the depreciation degree, how elements, what happens in the event of a contract breaking up, what happens in the situations that are scheduled, we had some basic reasons that we were going to do when we made the concept of this law. First, for the business traffic we want to create, it is important that there is legal certainty. This law intends to regulate this matter and thus ensure legal certainty for all participants in this transport. Secondly, this area covers or upgrades the financial services market. We all want to recognise in Serbia the concept of creating modern financial services, which would represent the positioning of Serbia as a potential leader of financial derivatives, as an incentive leader in providing financial services, and this is certainly a step in that direction. Certainly, one of the basic shortcomings in Serbia is the lack of capital investment. This is one of the laws that provides a chance to boost the inflow of capital investment in the economy. It is undeniable that the large segment in business activities, as a backbone of serious countries that want to create a flexible market economy, are small and medium-sized enterprises. The law is largely based on experiences in other countries, precisely affecting a small businessman, one who wants to work and a lease contract to resolve his question of engagement of equipment, essentially without hiring his own capital. It is normal for all of this to be in a function of increasing the efficiency of business traffic, aimed at improving the quality of production, towards increasing employment, creating new jobs, starting a business flow, which in the surrounding countries, when looking at comparative experience, has triggered the licking and stocking; I hope that all of this will soon come on the Parliament's agenda, because the law is finished and is located in the Assembly. So these laws have accelerated this business space and businesses have been launched significantly faster in dynamicising their activities. In addition to these reasons, I want to say something about some details, not at all trying to offend what you did when you read this law and repeat some of the solutions in the law. However, let me show you why we have identified ourselves in open issues for certain solutions and why, looking in the environment and in European systems, we have defined ourselves for what you have in this bill. First, this law, among other things, fills the gap in our legal regulation. The law on bond relations regulates classical legal affairs by its nature close to the financial lease, but does not cover all other institutes as financial leases. Although the Law on Liabilities also covers lease, loan and sale contracts with the retention of property rights, etc., when you look at what business and contract on financial leases do, you can see that it is a corpus of issues that remain uncovered by the Law on Liabilities, which are status and business and procedural issues, these are accounting aspects, tax and customs, etc. It was simply a desire to introduce legal certainty through the Financial Lising Act to enable those who wanted to deal with these affairs to find a basis in regulation. Normally, the issue of complex nature of the business of the financial lease itself, through lease, sale, credit, etc., required that this business be approached as a new law. In essence, most of the amendments apply to the fact that there is no distinction between operational and financial leases. I have to underline once again, this is a financial lease law, it has this three-dimensional property, so it defines two contracts: between the donor and the delivery guy and the lender. All elements defining the obligations of donors, suppliers and beneficiaries of the lease, as well as what happens in the event of appropriate damage to the course of the lease and the termination of the contract, are all covered by this law with defined consequences, if any of these occur within this part of business traffic. It must be important for whoever wants to get into this financial lease business to advance the interpretation of legal norms there are certain imperative rules. For this reason, it's important that there are standards in advance that someone recognizes when they enter the business of financial lysing. It is also important to know what norms will be regulated which is not regulated by contractual means, in the case of so-called so-called. dispositive rules. In fact, it was some of the elements that we must have been guided by when we defined this law. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'd say just a few elements-- example works, question minimum term. We've been looking for all the comparative experiences, which time limit to be taken when it comes to the minimum time limit on which the lease agreement is being concluded. There's one danger that we wanted to avoid, which is that it's not going to go to the kind of deadline that would lead to the possibility that one who essentially concludes the lease contract is going to the variety of buying and selling things. In other words, it must pass a certain period of use of the lising object in order for the job to exist without making the fiction of the existence of a lease for the purpose of achieving a certain purchase arrangement. In this context, we have defined ourselves as a two-year solution to how much licking is concluded, so as not to avoid the law, as well as that they can be subject to the lising of mobile non-consumable goods; because of the special regime relating to the immovableity of us, and the nature of the financial lease itself, they are not covered by the law. The law provides for elements of the contract, where they mainly fall under parallel legal systems, common elements of the definition of the lising. I think it's important to point out that there was a difference, it was one part of the amendment, the very business of the financial lease from the financial lease agreement. One more of the key things that make a distinction of the financial lease in relation to other forms, especially the operating lease, is that the licking is subsequently determined by the primary taking into account the depreciation of the continent or the most important part of the value of the lising object, which is the differentiation of the financial lease specifics to some other kind of lising. I wouldn't go any further in detail. You had a chance to look at the law yourself. As far as this bill is concerned, I would just like to say that the examples of Bulgaria, examples of countries that are in the accession process of Europe, show that through the lising, they were able to attract capital measured by billions of euros in years when they entered the serious process of reforming their economy and that the stocks were also among the pillars of the start-up of business activities and that, by linking that part of the financial market with the real sector, they ensured that the cash flow was launched, that the flow that exists on the side of the capital was launched and that in this way they accelerated the development of business activities. With this law, many Serbian citizens get a chance to participate in business; although they do not have a lot of initial capital, they get a chance to enter business traffic; they find their place in the segment of new employment. This law in a modern way represents relatively new flows in trade law. It will also have an indisputable impact on the acceleration of economic activity, and with very significant effects on the living standard of the population. It's about this law. Normally, me and my colleagues, with great pleasure, will follow your comments, and surely we will have the opportunity to discuss some questions, if it is necessary to clarify ourselves further, talk. The second law is the concession law. There was communication in the Assembly about this law. I think it's a shame this law wasn't passed in previous communication, but it's a matter of Parliament. So I want to kind of make a slightly different concept of the presentation of this law, not wanting to go into the details as I went the last time, a team that is in the concept of this law of the change that was made primarily in washing the text through the amendments adopted then in the Assembly and now we have one more chance to technically correct the law. However, I would like to say this: I don't think there's any need to explain the importance of the law on concessions. I think it was clear the last time we had a chance to talk about it. My, normally personal, impression is that, apart from some issues of more organizational character, there were essentially no big dilemmas as to how the concession law should look. Then we discussed the role of the agency and whether there should be something in the law, what is a dispositive character, what is not, but these things, in my view, have in no way indicated that there is any serious failure of the substance character in defining the law on concessions. For the economy and the population, it is important that the concession gives room for the good where there is a right to use, where the state gives the possibility to give up the right to use on natural wealth, on the public good, to perform public service with a certain fee and within a certain time period (can, not necessarily) solve the possibility of investing through concession forms, including arrangements - build, manage, manage and transfer - and all other forms of such arrangements covered by this law, with the elimination of the abuses afforded by the previous law, but not only because the previous law was good or bad, but because the investment area developed through these concession forms in a way that it was simply difficult to count them. The new concession law provides for a way to eliminate the kind of legal uncertainty that existed in the previous law. And last time I was saying: some things are certainly common whatever concession laws you take in the environment or compare with the previous law, but I also said that you can't change some legal norms, it's simply a question of how you're going to define yourself, and some things are technical. In the lack of a number of laws, especially when they are replicated, when these are not new laws, there are certain repetitions and that is when this new concession law is compared to that made in 1997. But when you look at the principles on which the law is set, when you look at the concept, the way and the process of selecting concessionaries, when you look at these three critical points, which define essentially the concept of the law, then you see that there are serious differences in the approach of the legislator. Today's legislator approached this problem in a way that respects a few basic principles or a principle, which sometimes sounds like a general declaration, but if it is translated into instruments that need to support these principles, then it shows to what extent the proponent's seriousness is to respect transparency, the principle of equal and fair treatment, the principle of freedom of competition and the principle of autonomy of will. That is, someone will say, general principles and it is true that unless there are instruments behind it that ensure that these principles are respected, then differences are not noticed. If this follows in the selection of institutes to ensure that these principles are respected, which is the primary institute of a public tender, then we come up with a situation to demonstrate the fundamental determination of the legislator. So neither the invitation bid nor the other possibilities, nor the direct negotiations in this way, but the Institute of Public tender ensures that the best wins on the basis of defined criteria, based on rules that will leave no doubt that the rules were not respected. So in law, you have all the elements of the tender procedure and the elements of the tender that should be respected. I'll just say a few more things. To avoid confusion again, the law lists areas in which concessions can be given. The ban exists only in areas where the law on foreign investment defines that a foreign person cannot invest, these are prohibited zones and the production of weapons. Everything else is given in the form of a dispositive character. So, not imperative, which means those areas can, but they don't have to be the subject of concession. To take another chance to repeat, this law provides for the most common areas for concessions, which does not exclude normal and others in which one can have an interest in a particular concession, but this country allows, because it wants to increase and improve the standard of living or because it cannot solve the investment problem in a particular area by other means. Just a few more items. Normally, we used positive and negative experiences, all those solutions from the parallel legal systems, which we thought were best suited to our system and in line with what we seek, with European standards. We've included those amendments that require the Assembly to say its word about so-called. We today believe that this can contribute to the impact of different forms of government so that what is given in the concession is given in a way that will ensure on the one hand that the population benefits, and on the other hand that there is one kind of mutual exchange of information and responsibility. There is also the involvement of representatives of the autonomous province, local administrations and the Assembly in the tender commissions, which will also be informed about how the tender procedure takes place. Finally, the law respects the principle of decentralisation which implies that local self-government and that it has responsibility and collects income for what is subject to concession in the part of the utility. It's left to local self-government. The system of participation of the representatives of the authorities in the tender commissions ensures that everyone is involved in a way that will ensure that there should be no kind of abuse, which would exist if this type of institute was not introduced into the concession law. So, the concession law itself, and this is again seen from other countries' experiences, gives room for certain investments to happen and those other forms of capital engagement, to activate those economic resources that can on the one hand help the standard of the population, and on the other hand the activation of the resources themselves, which creates this multiplier effect in the economy. These two laws, as part of a package of economic laws, along with the law on foreign investment and the law on stakes (it is in the assembly procedure), make a serious move forward in creating a piece of legal legislation that needs to ensure legal certainty in this area. Along with colleagues who have prepared these laws, as well as the Serbian government, I am convinced that it will contribute to the country's economic development.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29378	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do the committees want the word? No, I don't. Thank you. Is there an application for the word of the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) Please, the word has been delivered by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29379	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, how many times have we been from this pay phone from various ministers heard that this should trigger the economic flow, this law is precisely the one that is crucial for the creation of new jobs and that this law is the one that is crucial for the growth of production, the acceleration of business conditions and, in general, that will contribute to major economic growth in Serbia. Almost every other law has the same argument, which, unfortunately, remains only on it because we know what the consequences are. The consequences of all the economic reforms we have so far are that of March 2002. - in March 2003 recorded a decline in industrial production; in December 2002 - in March 2003, more than 14% dropped average earnings, and that over the last year the number of unemployed crossed the figure of almost a million unemployed. Are these data from successful economic reforms and good laws? We hear of every law that he is the key to the development of this country. These laws are, with less corrections, acceptable; and when I talk about new laws, I am talking about the guarantee fund law and the lease, the DSS will vote for them, and for the guarantee fund, where we have submitted amendments relating only to better control, i.e. that, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, since the guarantee fund with 600 million dinars is formed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is mandated by the ministry to control the funds that go into the Guarantee Fund. It's something that we think is necessary, given that at some point this fund will grow into a stock company, with this founding capital that can be increased. Since this is the state's participation, this type of control must be ensured by the state in the guarantee fund. Can such laws, which are acceptable and which are, in some ways, technical laws, replace the bad policy of the government? Can laws like this replace a bad environment for implementing reforms? Can such laws replace investments that are not available? Can bad laws like this replace various affairs with sugar, weapons that are happening in our country? Of course I can't. Key things are called institutions that don't work or don't exist. Industrial development and in general investment and industrial development, and just remember the story of the Privatisation Act. The law is key to launching that point of industrial development, an industrial production that should allow Serbia to launch all this, to change its owner and manage investment through privatisation and investment, where foreign people will invest in these funds, as a driving force. That's not gonna happen. What are the effects of privatisation? The decline in social production and the rise in unemployment rates. The rise in unemployment rate can be somewhat understood by rationalization, but where new jobs are opened. If we have a privatisation that was accelerated at the end of last and this year, why do we have a decline in industrial production? Are these the effects of these great laws that are presented from this pay phone and where each law is marked as crucial? I think more important than all these laws is the environment in which these laws should be applied, i.e. the absence of an environment that would guarantee legal certainty, strong institutions and an environment that would attract foreign investors. If only the Heritage Foundation and Wall Street Journal tell you that out of 155 countries that they evaluate and make a ranking of our country's economic freedoms in 2002, we should be concerned. If that's not the alarm bell, I don't know what it is. If by these economic freedoms this year, by some estimates, we've fallen even more on the scale, among the last few states, I don't know what we're talking about. We make laws to make those laws a dead letter on paper. Given that we expect foreign investments and another communication and financing of financial operations, these laws will be inconclusive because nothing has changed. We didn't do anything to build the environment. What legal certainty we offer investors when the Constitutional Court annuls as unconstitutional laws of the government. Can a government that proposes unconstitutional laws guarantee legal certainty? What legal certainty do we offer in a congregation that does not know who is an MP? What legal certainty does a state that doesn't have a president offer? What legal certainty do we offer? There is no legal certainty here and there is no possibility of creating an economic and economic investment environment. Those are the real questions we have to deal with. Jake institutions. Is this parliament an institution that can guarantee a foreign investor that everything will be the way it is on paper? He can't. This parliament is an institution that cannot ensure itself implement its decision on direct TV transmissions, and how can it ensure that a more serious law is implemented? What institutions are we talking about and what ambience are we talking about? The concession law was returned to MPs in an almost unchanged text, following a contract made in Novi Sad between the province's executive council or the president of the province's parliament and the government of the Republic of Serbia, where a political agreement was made. We here on a political settlement, not a consensus on improving the text of the law. In the middle of last year, the DSS presented its proposal for a concession law, which envisioned a different way of granting concessions, limited that right, excluded forests from concessions, and we expect the Ministry of Environmental Protection to be announced that way. What kind of political bargain or political agreement has been made? What political trade is behind the fact that now those MPs who voted against the almost identical text of the law at the last session, when it was voted on the concession law, will now vote for the law. Have them come out and tell them what they got. What's the price, what's the cost of the state? How much was paid to support a law? How much is their vote? What is the price of all that is brought in this congregation? Well, let's see why bad laws are passed. What does this look like? We have advocated in our bill that concessions should be decentralised, a concession agency and that a precise concession register be conducted, where everything will stand, and where the exact record will be and where one agency will carry out concession processes without doing so at the ministry. These are two different solutions. We felt that in the transition process everything should stand in one place, there is better control and that professional people who will deal with concessions need these concessions to lead. Now, you have to have a special service with each ministry to deal with concessions. The question is how professional she is, more or less. We believe that this can result in some harmful decisions and harmful concessions. As for decentralisation and the possibility of autonomous provinces and local self-government giving concessions, we believe this should be made possible. Finally, after the change of the Constitution, if there are regions and all other forms of territorial arrangements, of course they should be allowed, in their jurisdiction, to give concessions; but a single concession register must be conducted, in order for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to know whether five municipalities have given concessions to the water supply, possibly jeopardising water supply, by being one whole, independent of others and where concessionaries will have the opportunity to exploit it, or not. That's what our proposal was and stayed. We'll stand for it. Lising laws and the guarantee fund are not in themselves bad, they are acceptable. We have amendments to the guarantee fund law that are heading towards the control of the guarantee fund's funds, given that the 600 million-million-dollar stake goes from the Republic of Serbia's budget, so, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, the funds need to be controlled. That's one thing. Secondly, I'm afraid that these laws will remain dead letter on paper, since we don't have an ambience, that we have a decline in industrial production, an increase in the unemployment rate, a drop in average earnings below the value of the consumer basket, and, unfortunately, the definitions and donations will be less than they were before will mostly be used to cover the budget deficit and to grow industrial production, unfortunately, there will be nothing. All these laws we make are inapplicable, because no law can replace the poor economic policy of the government that we have today. I'm simply afraid these laws will have to wait for another government, which will otherwise look at and run economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29380	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29381	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, today the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is discussing two draft laws, one new and one old. This old man will be told more about my fellow MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia, and I will try to say a few words about the new law, the Financial Lissing Act. At first, I must say that we MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia feel that the bill is not good, that there are more weaknesses and indeterminateness and that we will not vote for its adoption. About the lack of a bill, I'll say something more later. Before that, I think it should answer one question - whether this law or even any financial lease law can achieve the objectives set in the light of the law, i.e. The reason for bringing him here? There, by the proposing government of the Republic of Serbia, it is said that the adoption of the law creates a significant basis for investing in Serbia's economy, its development and refurbishing towards the market economy model. It would be nice for Serbia and its citizens if that were the case. That would mean more to the standard of living. But it's not like that. No, because it is difficult to respond to what the economy of Serbia is today. The DOS, and thus the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has left the market law to stimulously regulate the economic situation in Serbia and the results are catastrophic. The lack of the government's systemic policy in the economy has produced a decline in industrial production, a months-long decline. The decline in production in the first quarter of this year compared to the same period last year decreased by 4.8%. The decline in industrial production will lead to a further decline in economic growth, while the government has made adjustments and itself said that the growth rate will not be as it was projected at the beginning of this year. It is well known that the unemployed in Serbia have more and more. In early May, that number reached a million. He's been growing back and forth for months. Government representatives also announce new unemployed. The privatisation minister announced several hundred thousand new people who would lose their jobs. Some 400 to 700 thousand people are mentioned. All of this is causing a further drop in living standards. What few people do, they get less and less pay. The profit drop was recorded in January. In February, he was slightly higher, so that in March the salaries would continue to be reduced. This is what the official data of different institutes dealing with research, that is, with this topic. The decline is 2.32% lower than February and 12.4% lower than December's salary. When it comes to employment income, frapantic data is that in March only 13.2% of employees received a salary greater than 18,000 dinars, which means that everyone else, and there are over 85% of them, has a payment less than the sum mentioned. Pensions will be down by 5.6% in the next three months. Investments have been stalled. High imports of foreign goods remain dominant. The foreign trade deficit, which has already passed four billion dollars long ago, continues to increase. Since the promised successful privatisation, there is nothing, let alone its stimulating production. That little company that's privatized, I say a little because it's almost negligible the number of customers from abroad, it's mostly domestic capital, moving from one hand to the other, practically money laundering, and immediately after taking over businesses by new owners, the production program is also changing. The companies that are being prepared for privatisation have not produced before. The effects of producing these companies are more modest, far below expectations. The country's borrowing continues to increase. I mentioned all this information for a reason to know what the state of the country's economy is and, secondly, to see that such a situation cannot be a good basis for applying the law on financial lease. The law will not achieve the objectives set, not because it is not wanted, but because it cannot be achieved in the current economic conditions. The law, therefore, is insignificantly inapplicable. The economic effects of the law will not be or will be very modest, but the government will, as so many times before, present the law as a salvation for Serbia's economy. Marketing and image will also be dominant this time, and for the poor results the reasoning will be found and given later -- the sooner the better for the Serbian government. However, despite the fact that the law will not be possible in the relevant economic ambience, because it does not exist in the Republic of Serbia, Serbian Socialist Party MPs believe the law has more inadequacy and will mention some. First, not enough wide-ranging content of business and financial lease items. The solution would lead to the possibility of rounding up the financial lysing process, which would contribute to a possibility that does not exist, that the lysing recipient buys and purchases equipment, facilities, technology, vehicles or the like, which is the subject-ling. Secondly, insufficient legal certainty of the recipient of the lease, which makes the financial lease business far less effective than it should be. Thirdly, too high a monetary share of the underlying capital, which can prevent companies from performing financial lease operations, although they meet other necessary conditions. Fourthly, an insufficiently clear time-limit between the donor and the leaser in the event of a delay in paying off the borrower's obligations, thus reaching conditions for the termination of the contract. The deadline cannot be now and immediately, nor appropriate, as it stands in the law, but must be made clear in advance. Fifth, insufficient and unequal legal certainty for all participants in financial lease business. The leaser can't be completely unprotected, and the leaser is so protected that he's not responsible for anything, only to charge interest and commission. The sixth, financial lease register to run a concrete institution, such as the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, as an association of business entities. Seven, there is no clear individual responsibility of the lender or the recipient of the lising, and not of the solidarity, as the law provides, if any of them fail to register the lease agreement, its alterations and additions and termination of the contract. So the Financial Lising Act is a way of making it easier to get machines and equipment and start production, but rather expensive, more expensive than getting them through bank loans. The government should provide greater financial and other support for the supply of equipment and economic development, since companies themselves cannot do so, because of the situation in which they are also low credibility among foreign partners. Dear fellow MPs, this bill suffers from a number of shortcomings. They can possibly be corrected by amending the law, by adopting amendments. Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia have submitted 15 amendments to the bill, of course, by making very concrete remarks on what and how it should be amended. We believe, even if this were to be done, that amendments would be adopted and the law would be changed, improved, economical environment in which the law should be applied, which is the economy of Serbia, is in such a state that it makes the law objectively almost inapplicable. Once again, I wanted to repeat my position from the beginning of this presentation on the Financial Lising Law proposal -- we will not vote for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29382	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I regret that you were the initiator to join the debate on these two laws. You've denied us the opportunity to look more closely at each law, but well, what's there. As for the financial lease law, this law, as well as the concession law, should be the basis for new investment in the foreign economy, for which our economy is crying out. Therefore, conditions should be created for foreign capital, first of all, to come to the ground, to fertilize and benefit us, and for those who have invested capital. We are a very interesting space and an interesting market for foreign investors, i.e. for capital owners, who need to place that capital somewhere and benefit from it. We don't have the capital, we don't have the technology, or we have the out-of-date technology, we have the infrastructure destroyed, the businesses destroyed, and the foreigners have money they don't know where they're going and what they're going to do, they have the technology they need to sell somewhere, and now our market is very interesting to them. What's this about? The World Bank knows very well that there is no other place for us to look for loans. We use these loans, unfortunately, to fill the budget gaps, because there is no money in the budget and we use spending funds, and we can't use them to invest in the economy. We also said for this last 80m-euro loan that we would spend on social contributions. So we won't be able to go into any investment. We're in debt, and I can see that we're already unable to pay the interest that we regularly receive. I think this is clear to everyone and it doesn't take much to convince ourselves. We all know there's no money in the budget. Minister Djelic said, "Everything that arrives today will be spent by 11:00 tomorrow." We see that two months' staff in the Federal Assembly have not been paid. This is where they pay off late all the time. There'll be 8-9 salaries over the year. What happens to pensions, how many there will be, how many are going down, we'll just see. Besides, we've got a rough year ahead of us. As far as agriculture is concerned, we can see that Minister Veselinov eventually established a form of contact with God and that he told him that this had to be declared a natural disaster and that peasants must in some way depriving themselves. (Siniša Mitrovica, from the place: He does not believe in God. He may not believe in God, but we do. Generally, this law is, according to us, for the benefit of the recipient, but the only benefit comes from a leaser. I don't think legal and termological is well done. We pointed out that in the amendments. We take care of the purity of legal style and the preservation of the legal system. These amendments should be adopted by the promoters if the law ever passes the assembly procedure, because we're used to your laws falling here. As it is a business of goods traffic, the question arises: why is financial leases, not regular licking, which has been in existence for a long time? It's regulated by the Bond Law. We taught him as students of economic and legal college. You yourself said in your statement that it was two separate contracts, and now we need to find an answer why at this point we need one law that will regulate something that is already regulated, given that it is two separate contracts, which are also fully legally regulated. So why are we introducing a third person between the equipment manufacturer and the leaser, when it's clear that the equipment manufacturer himself has an interest in selling its equipment, i.e. to lick it. I don't see why someone else should be introduced now, unless we wanted to launder the dirty money that exists in the country, abroad or in our environment. Two questions arise: who has money in the country, who has money abroad? There's nothing in the country but dirty money. That, I guess, we all know. There's no healthy economy, there's no health banks. There are those who came from the side. What's their status? We'll see in a few years. As far as abroad, there's money, there's money at the World Bank, there's money with other banks. Credits from these banks are much more favourable than they are in our country. So the interest is much less. What's gonna happen? There is no claim that this legal work has so far not been regulated in our legislation and that it is a specific legal job, that this requires a special law to be dealt with. You've already told us in the exposé that we're expecting a law that will regulate the stock. So are we going to have a buy-in law, a lease law, so that all the contracts that are regulated by the Bond Law can be re-regulated by special laws? That absolutely doesn't make any sense. I think we're bringing all the matter into confusion. You have the blackmail of those countries where there is continental law. They like there to be a law on everything and everything. You know that well. You're counting on their capital and now you're meeting them and you're passing laws like this. This could be seen from the content of this law, somewhat from your explanation. I don't think that's necessary. We could have achieved this financial lease without passing a new law, given the existence of the Bond Relations Act. This first contract, since you're talking about the triple contract law, is a classic buy-in contract. The leaser, as you call him, buys goods from the manufacturer and he has a classic purchase contract with him, with what he says - you don't deliver them to me, but to a third person. It's like when you call "Teleflora," so you say, "I'll buy a bouquet of flowers," but send it to that lady and that one. There's nothing else. You have another contract that's a classic lease contract. You're giving the goods to the leaser. He uses it and pays for it a certain fee. You've wrongly set some parameters here in law that you're going to pay for, since you're celebrating the contract here as an institute and you're saying it's forgotten. Let those who negotiate to make their own payments. Don't give them the parameters. That's the market conditions. The one who gives money and the one who takes it is well calculated and determined how much it will cost. So it's not about any specificity, it's about those countries whose capital you're counting on to have a special law. I think that's the point. We've had licking until now, and this financial one, because, let's say, the equipment that Chume used to pave the way for a classic licking, with him obviously being both a leaser and a leaser; it paid him off to be, since he paid less for the lease, for compensation than he made here, and for that difference, he profited nicely. But, well, I think the capital of such people as the plague will just be projected here in the business of financial lysing. In particular, you've provided for a two-year deadline here for how long this job can last, and we've also warned you through the amendment that there are seasonal affairs; you know, it shouldn't be a law to determine what time it is, but it could go down to six months. I want to tell you that we have tried amendments to fix it for you, but it remains our claim that the law is completely excess. As far as the fee provided for in Article 7 is concerned, I already told you that we should leave the full freedom to negotiate, and in article 10 you define who can be a leaser in full, it seems to me, an inappropriate way, because I would understand that you are asking a domestic person to register for this activity and to have this capital, a minimum share of the capital capital of 100,000 euros... (President: People's Parliament, do you use the next 10 minutes? ) Yes, not these euros, we say Europe, not Europe. But you can't prescribe additional conditions for foreigners under which they will deal with financial licking, since that's regulated by their legislation. It can't be any plus this law. In article 16 for material defects, you say - responds to the supplier. Please, it's impossible for the delivery guy to answer, because there's no contract between him and the leaser. Those who don't have a contract can't be in a legal relationship, not at all. You forget that the holder of the property rights is only a leaser, so it is logical that he is responsible for any drawbacks. Article 24, which I will look at in principle now, and in the discussion of the details of this, it is completely confusing, not only for us, but for us, it is clear to us what you wanted to say, but it will be confusing for the court, if the court comes, and there is inter-national arbitration, so we need to pay particular attention. Unfortunately, so much in the principle of the Financial Lising Act, and as for the concession law, we had it in the debate on February 19th, the debate lasted two or three days, the law fell in the Assembly, because the amendments of Mr Chanka, or the AP Vojvodina, failed; they are now installed here and there, and I see now that there is one amendment that requires 30%, not 5% to invest in the AP Vojvodina infrastructure, if the subject of concession is located in the province area. So, now some deal has been reached and we'll see if you adopt that amendment or not, I assume that by the last moment Canak will have you in the grip on the adoption of this law, or maybe you've agreed on the Constitution. In any case, some trade is at stake, it is not exactly the same as the previous one, there are certain changes, and we have looked back at these changes through the amendment solutions and proposals given in the explanation that the adoption of this law directly encourages the resuscitation of economic activities in Serbia and the development of the economy in general, asking for an answer to the question of what has bothered you so far to grant concessions. It's nothing, the concession law existed, and there was this tender, Mr. Minister, there was a federal law that regulated this matter, and it could also be through a tender to determine who would be a concessionist. There's not much difference between this law and the existing one in 1997, and even 80% of the matter has been adopted, by you throwing out the agency, which we think only makes sense to stay in this law, or to deal with concessions, given what kind of local self-government, what our personnel are, and that this agency could have been professionally serviced and done all these jobs, but why didn't you, it'll show time, everywhere you put them, it's just not here. The adoption of this law is one of the conditions for granting loans to the World Bank; it is one of the conditions of this previous law, and a question is once again being raised as far as World Bank blackmail goes and why we have put ourselves in a position to depend so much on the World Bank, that is, on credit. I will try to answer that question - because the state, we heard Mr. Tadic, the military minister, decided to drop the war damage claim before that International Court of Justice in The Hague against the 19 states that bombed the SRJ. That is what the minister said openly after talks in Brussels with NATO leaders. He said it was easy to meet the conditions for entering the Partnership for Peace, it only takes one of these small conditions to meet, and that is no problem at all. On whose behalf he's saying it, we don't really know, but in our opinion it's an act of high treason. How will concessions be given? It will mainly be given for the construction and maintenance of infrastructure facilities, thermal power plants, hydropower plants, mines, and those who destroyed that infrastructure and that economy, those who, by their policies, imposed sanctions, exhausted that economy and that economy, and now we need to create conditions for them to yet fertilise their own capital here. They've been doing all this to get to this point, that we depend exclusively on their capital. We essentially have nothing against concessions, on the contrary, we believe that concessions should exist. We object to our priority interest in granting a loan from the World Bank, because the World Bank will not grant us these loans, but to those who invest, or who take the concession. They come in opportunity to take money from the World Bank and want a guarantee from this law here. Here, therefore, is the completely downloaded matter of the previous law, with, to put it, small changes. The earlier law did not allow the conclusion of concession contracts if there was only one interested in the concession, and now it can, and in our opinion it opens up the possibility of abuses. In the current law, we had a logical condition that the concessionary had to meet, which is the rational use of natural wealth; if you give some concession for 30 years, it can completely drain the resource, and here in the law there is no protection against it. This is particularly important, especially when it comes to thermoelectrics, hydroelectrics; one that gets, say, hydrocentrals (how do I know who you're going to give the concession to and why you can give it to Gerdap) can export as much electricity as you want, and we can't protect ourselves from it. What's new in this law, the part that applies to areas that can be subject to concessions, is maintenance and use, reconstruction and modernisation of health institutions, that's what my colleagues will talk about; that's something we're not going to do, construction is fine, but all of this other stuff we shouldn't do right now, given the state of health as regulated health insurance is. It is proposed that the funds derived from the concession be the revenue of the budget as income of the Republic of Serbia, except for two exceptions made in the Privatisation Act, if you remember: when it comes to AP Vojvodina, 5% if the subject of the concession is on that territory, and 5% to local self-government, which we have really nothing against. It would be perfectly natural to determine the purpose of these funds. If it is already in the second position of the member who regulates the 5% Vojvodina, they are said to invest it in infrastructure, then why and the total funds that go into the Republic of Serbia's budget are not defined for infrastructure, rather than spending that money again on consumption. That's not gonna work out for us. Finally, we believe that concessions should not be decided by the National Assembly. The division of power exists: legislative, executive and judicial. We're here to pass laws, the government is here to implement them, so you go to the Serbian Parliament, you file a report and you say -- we gave these and those concessions under these and those conditions, we adopt or don't adopt the report, or that's why we're asking for the government to fall. We have no place to interfere and share responsibility with the government, on what concession to give, no matter what the concession applies. Let each of you do your job and be responsible for your job. Unfortunately, neither the Serbian Parliament can find a way to implement its decisions, nor when it comes to the direct transfer of the assembly's sessions. The director is elected by the government, so that's why we should be asking for the government to fall. That would be the only normal thing in a normal state, but this isn't a normal state. That's why we won't vote for this bill, not the financial lease law, not the concession law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29384	The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29385	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when proposing to bring together the debate on these two points of the agenda, we made sure that it was the regulation of two contracts in the economy, therefore, to carry out economic registered activities and, on the other hand, that it was an area and matter covered by an organisational and structural one ministry in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and given that these two laws should provide a much better and better economic environment in the Republic of Serbia. The Financial Lising Act is based on both the UNIDROIT Convention on Financial Lising and the Law on Lising Relations, which regulates through its specific provisions certain contracts which are partly compatible with the Financial Lising Treaty and with certain assets and provisions of parallel law in those countries where this form of contract has and how serious, significant and mass application. This contract contains the elements of a lease that could be called a pre-contract, a contract from which the lease was and is created; it is a sale contract with invoiced war payments, a sale contract with retaining property rights, a loan contract. The minister stressed, when he spoke about continental law, how important it is to define certain contracts more and more precisely, when we rightly have the fact that in the theory of contracts that are not contained in the Law on Liaison and called unnamed contracts, although they may be known in practice in some other sources of law. It was unusual for this contract to be classified in our legal order through a special law, namely the way this contract is concluded, applied, amended or supplemented. The principle of legal certainty is one of the basic principles which was respected in this Treaty. Practically, it goes through the entire text, from the fact that lising providers can be those legal persons who have a founding role of at least 100,000 euros, to the written form of this contract, a form that guarantees greater legal certainty than the oral form of which, in principle, our Law on Lising Relations sets out as a basic form. Returning the object of the lising in case the contract is annulled is faster and more effective than our Executive Procedure Act provides. When regulating this area and such a way of protection, there are risks - whether to allow a certain degree of self-authority or to adhere to those provisions legislated by an executive procedure that leads to the fact that, sometimes for months or years, this executive procedure is being delayed. The bill promoter is defined as the best solution, adheres to the strict provisions of the law, shortens deadlines and allows the leaser to be effectively protected from the unconscious behaviour of the other Contracting Party. Responsibilities for legal disadvantages, which the leaser, as the owner of things in the nature of things, bear, if a third party has pretenses or claims its right to deny or in any other way restricts the enjoyment of the things of the recipient, is also a provision to be taken over from the Law on Lising Relations, but also in a specific way to protect the parties to this contract. Practically, financial licking consists of two contracts. It consists of a delivery contract which could also be treated as a contract for the sale of goods and a financial lease contract on the basis of which the recipient of the lease acquires the right to hold and use the object of the lising, of course, with the payment of the corresponding fee based above all on the depreciation of the lising object, which also indicates fairness and which can also represent a significant moment in strengthening the economic movement, thanks to this mechanism. In a strong way, this law gives participants in economic - legal transport a mechanism that enables the development of the economy, allowing the World Bank's loans to be obtained. So, in many ways, it allows for the strengthening of the economy in the Republic of Serbia, and automatic and higher employment, greater economic development and, unusually important, the promotion of the initiative, and we seem to be missing the most in Serbia. In business movements, private initiatives, initiatives of legal and physical persons are needed to enter this contract and to acquire the right through this contract to use certain new achievements, new equipment, new appliances, based on which they can be built, without having to allocate large funds to buy and not have to bind the equipment. In doing so, when they use this equipment, they are primarily guided by the principle of economic benefit and at the moment when that equipment becomes obsolete, they can give up the use of these equipment, while in doing so they are intolerably sanctioned; they have come to be able to carry out a certain economic activity, which, by the way, requires much more resources. It is precisely because of such favourable conditions and because of the small material and financial base that participants in legal traffic in transition countries have had such a massive application and has been so successfully implemented in the countries of the former eastern bloc. Therefore, capital investments, economic development and employment are the basic directions in which this law is moving. The concession law, which this assembly has already discussed, which is fundamentally different from the proposed text of the law, allows for the right of use, of course, with the permission of the state, for a certain period of time and with a certain fee, natural resources, public goods and certain public services. When you compare the functioning of our public services by local self-government, primarily municipal services, with municipal services in Western countries, you will see that these are mostly concessioned activities, except perhaps water lines, but also very often they are concentrated. So on the basis of the principle of efficiency and rationality, very often local administrations around the world are determined to give concessions to municipal activities and retain the most only that administrative, administrative part. Legal certainty is also something that follows from the Law on concessions, both through the new concept that we see in relation to the previous law that allows for greater transparency and fairness of this process, and through the fact that Parliament declares that concessions are given to certain actions that have strategic or international significance. So, those actions that are of public interest are actions that, to be concessioned, will be confirmed as such, therefore as the subject of the concession, and in this Parliament, and this is an unusually important democratic flow of this law. The law provides for a wide list of activities, lists that are all works, from roads, through water, energy, mining, municipal services, which can be the subject of concessions. It leaves the possibility of expanding the list, i.e. leaving the possibility of a very liberal way of dimensioning and defining in which all areas of concessions can be considered. They are defined by this law by three principles, not only declaratively, as we have heard from the proposings, but all these principles are implemented through different legal mechanisms and in the legal text following the declaration of those principles. Therefore, the principle of equal and fair treatment, where it is always important in this legal job that information is equally and at the same time available to all potential participants in this legal work, that they all be pre-acquainted with the elements of the contract, with conditions that they must satisfy in order to conclude, with standards that they must comply with both the way and the procedure to reach the conclusion of the contract itself. The free market game, therefore, the definition that all legal and natural persons can participate in this procedure, is also something that allows this contract to be widely concluded, i.e. as many legal participants enter this legal business. And, the autonomy of will as a general principle of bonding and civil law, or contractual law, above all, is something that is never completely unlimited. So it's limited -- not only by this law but also by the bond law, it's also in all other civil legislation in continental law -- public interest. So if the public interest is not respected then the contract is annulled, not only in this law but it is a general principle in all laws. By decentralisation, therefore, the definition of revenue obtained on the basis of this contract, local self-government and autonomous province is practically made possible and provides for a democratic mechanism for the availability of funds obtained through the conclusion of this contract. When you compare this with the countries of Western Europe, Eastern Europe, even Asia, you will see that local self-government has benefits if there is a concession on certain activities in the territory and local self-government. This law provides for an inflow of foreign capital. This law provides strong mechanisms for the development of our economy and therefore the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform – will vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29386	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, the MP group of National Socialists.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29387	Dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament, most of this matter is a classic bond and it is contained in the Law on Bond Relations. This represents, in my opinion, another implementation of this matter in order to resolve one area, but the treatment of the area is not complete and for this reason we will not support it. What is the point of this father I want to tell you about this law? Lysing is basically the most used to avoid tax payments; one of the categories that is widely used in practice, the bonding category to avoid paying taxes, and I would say that it would avoid paying customs duties. I understand that one side and it is quite anachronous, undefined, shifted a little to the left or to the right as needed to sort out this issue in a certain way and it's good to concentrate matter in one place, but absolutely incomplete. You have here a series of examples from the regulation of this law that clearly sees countless possibilities to avoid paying taxes. I hope the minister agrees with me, since we have problems in the tax area quite a bit, that maybe we should take care of it. So here's a concrete example of what happens when a contract breaks down. Some wars have been paid, so there's been an interruption of the contract at some point. This is a classic form of lease. As far as we know, by law, the lease is the form in which the sales tax has to be paid, but in this case, when there's a break, and let's say there's a break before some court a month before the deadline, what's our business? To avoid taxes, and here are countless possibilities. In that case, the court will reach a solution, bring a verdict, determine the actual state of play, the obligations will not arise and can repeat a new deadline for licking. Nothing's stopping you from rebuilding, meaning another licking period in some way, trying to figure out that you've been paying and so on. I don't think on this side, tax, financial, legal, this was treated at all, and it seems to me that the biggest problem in this country is one part of the problem we're dealing with and which is now, I think, in quite an expansion when it comes to this matter and this area, so on. financial licking. He's in service for several reasons. The first and basic reason is to avoid bank transactions in direct relations by the manufacturer of a particular type of equipment or vehicle. It enters a financial lease with certain persons and thus credits are being done in order to obtain property rights within a period of two, three, four or five years. The outcome of everything is to acquire the right property. Obviously, we don't have that second part of the treatment in which we can control it in a certain way, and above all, the IRS, and here we're definitely legalizing tax evasion right now, and I don't think that's good. You know that mostly, for example, when it comes to motor vehicle traffic, the main reason for this type of traffic of motor vehicles is to avoid paying customs duties and taxes. It's a very big question for this country. What do we do now if we let this country have an unlimited form of licking companies that will work, and it's about leasers or suppliers who will do so, and 100,000 euros doesn't mean anything. These are small sums for the amount of legal work, i.e. the size of such a company can do or one legal person, from which there can be an enormous avoidance of sales tax when it comes to the transport of motor vehicles. I don't think this has been treated on that side and it's not good. I really don't think it's good, because next to that credit line, when it comes to the delivery of some of the basic assets that will be used in the manufacturing process, I can understand that, I can see that as a good form, it seems to me that the main conclusion of the lysing story in some future period is just going to be on the traffic of motor vehicles. So, I warn, really well-intentioned, and I draw attention that we will come to a situation where we have a flood of legal entities that will deal with licking business, with all the interruptions they can make at that stage, with new lease contracts. The highest legal act to be taken in this country and the oldest, with the strongest legal power, is an act brought by the court; whether it is a judgment based on recognition or a solution. When it comes to a solution, you come into a situation where lower legal acts, which are all others, including bonds that have the character of mutual will, have a lower character and thus you will get into a situation where you have huge legal jobs and tax avoidance. It can't be solved by regulations afterwards, because you have a form of law. You can't solve other sublaws, you can't get judges not to judge these legal matters, because they have to judge, they have to make decisions, they have to respect the will of the litigators, because it's a classic lawsuit. We can simply get into a situation where we have a huge flood of tax evasion. I really don't think this is treated well on that side. It seems to me that the ministry should take account, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of how this issue should be resolved in the coming period. We are obviously going to come into a situation where a huge amount of avoidance of customs and tax payments through this legal work, we can come into a situation that, apart from the first party that can create some conditions, higher effects of these kudikamo can be a financial benefit, not for the state, and especially for legal or other natural persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29388	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Radic Jokovic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29389	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in New Serbia believe that this law on financial lease should have been passed earlier, in order to ensure conditions for faster supply of equipment that would speed up the business activity of entrepreneurs, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises, which, unfortunately, has been getting weaker lately. So far, this matter has not been regulated by one law, which was not in the interest of potential participants in this business. By passing a special law on financial lease, he receives a priority application compared to other general laws, which gives greater legal certainty to the participants in the business and increases efficiency in the process of obtaining equipment to carry out economic activities. This law regulates the following jobs: a financial lease agreement, the rights and obligations of entities in the financial lease business, as well as a financial lease register. In this transaction, three entities which are linked to each other with two contracts which make their mutual relationship a whole business of financial lease. The first contract is a lease sale contract between the leaser and the producer, on the basis of which the leaser acquires the right of ownership on the subject of the lising. Here, it should be pointed out that the leaser obtains the object of the lysing by the lysing recipient specification from the manufacturer selected by the lysing recipient. The second contract is a financial lease contract concluded by the leaser with the leaser and on the basis of which the leaser transfers the leaser to the leaser the power to hold and use the leaser for a specified period of time, with the contracted fee paid within the agreed deadlines. Article 7. The bill proposes that the amount of compensation be determined on the basis of the depreciation of the subject matter of the lising. In order to ensure a leaser from the abuse of an unconscious leaser, in the event of a leaser's termination, he can recover the subject matter in a quick, legally secure and effective manner defined by Article 30. It's a bill of law. This article has been defined as holding the process of return of the lising case in the context of a court procedure with swift and effective court proceedings in the short term, in accordance with the provisions of the Implementing Procedure Act. Article 10 defined the financial leaser as a business company, whose minimum part of the underlying capital is 100 000 euros. We have submitted an amendment to this article, asking that the paid part of the underlying capital of the leaser be in function of the value of the object of the lease. We do not believe that the same amount can be paid by the share of the underlying capital for companies that are doing financial lease equipment, for example, for households, as for those companies that are registered for financial lease operations for industrial plants. We also submitted amendments to Articles 6, 16, 17, 24, 26 and 36. The bill of law, with a desire to improve the text of the law more precisely by formulating these members. There is an impression that no technical experts have been consulted in the drafting of the text of the proposal of this law, and hence there are a lot of inaccuracies or massive formulations in the case of material defects in the subject matter of lising, damages which may occur and maintenance of the object of the lising. As for the law on concessions, Professor Miodrag Stamenkovic will speak in front of New Serbia in the context of a principle debate. I'd like to join those debaters who have kind of criticised the government for losing economic activity. I think New Serbia is joining that. We need to do something urgent to repair this economic activity. Even in those areas where we had the chance, as we received certain preferences from the European Union for the export of sugar, by creating an affair of sugar, we destroyed practically the domestic production that we should have improved. Something similar happened to us last year about the arms affair. I have to remind you, since I'm from that area, that we now have 14,000 employees in enterprises dealing with the production of weapons and military equipment and that the capacities of these companies are much higher than the domestic army needs. So with this affair, we have compromised the existence of these 14,000 workers and the production of these companies. I would ask that the government take care of these things in the future and that people who are close to the government and who participated in the creation of the affair are in a certain way sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29390	Are any of the other authorised representatives or vice presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move to a debate after the application for a word in a joint principled search on the draft law on financial leases and the proposal for a concession law. The first registered speaker is MP Vlatko Sekulovic, followed by MP Stevan Z. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29391	Dear Madam Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the ministry, the Social Democratic Party, of course, supports this law and we are very pleased that this law, and I am talking about the Financial Lising Act, was found before the MPs. However, we cannot share an unwarranted optimism that causes certain colleagues to pass this law. This law is important in creating a legal framework that should encourage both foreign investment and further development of the economy. However, he is not a spectacular law. It's not a law that will do wonders, it's just another part of our economic progress and economic reform. So I think we should always follow the rules that we shouldn't create unwarranted expectations, and so does this law. I believe that with the adoption of this package of laws, it means the law on leases, concessions, on the guarantee fund, there are still a few legal projects to be adopted afterwards. It is certain that among them are the most significant bankruptcy law and the law that should regulate the entire sector of action that is important for the overall economy, which is the energy law. I think that these two laws have entered some additional legal acts, such as the Law on Stocks on mobile things, the Company Registration Act. This concludes and completes the legal framework related to economic reform and attracts foreign investment. After that, a much more significant issue will be the promotion and representation of the country abroad. We must make sure that Serbia is not only in competition with neighbouring countries, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, and even with those countries still in Europe, but is in competition with distant countries such as Taiwan, Brazil, the South African Republic, which are also the subject of foreign investors' interest. I cannot agree with the assessment that there is too much capital in the world today and that there is no idea where to place that capital, but I think there is also a somewhat excessive offer in terms of the offer of countries seeking foreign investment. We must be aware that the struggle in that arena of competition is very harsh, and that is why we needed this law, because that is why we are bringing ourselves to the same level with other countries. Of course, this law should not, especially from a legal point of view, be analysed. We believe that he is quite good, regardless of the provisions in the Law on Bond Relations, which allowed him to lick and apply to us during the previous period. We still felt it was necessary to pass a special legal act, which would define more clearly the legal relations that arise on the basis of this legal work. Therefore, regardless of our support for the adoption of this special law, and in previous work related to the creation of this law, we have also insisted on amendments to the legal acts that are accessory to this act, which primarily concerns the Customs and Tax Act. We believe that significant progress has also been made in this field with the laws that we have made in the previous period, so that licking can be applied in a legally secure way in our country, because there was indeed abuse of this legal work in the previous period, especially from the point of view of paying taxes, i.e. customs. However, we believe it is necessary to take an additional step, and this is related to the application of accounting standards. You know, at this point, we have a dualism, that companies run accounting according to our legislation, and that, if they want, they can run accounting and by international standards. We believe that the Accounting Act needs to be innovative in order to fully apply standards that apply in international economic relations. Therefore, we believe that this law, along with these accesor laws, not only opens up opportunities for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to reach equipment, machinery, but also enables easier replacement of machinery or monitoring of technological progress. This is, for example, an extremely important law for shipping houses, but also for ordinary citizens. We believe that this legal project will allow our citizens to use this legal instrument to get to, for example, cars, and at the same time we believe that this law prevents the emergence of malfeasances that were present in the early 1990s, related to lysing, when there have been various frauds from "Vinner Broker" and other enterprises and mechanics, who have abused this mechanism and deceived citizens. Therefore, in order for this legal structure to be defined, I consider it necessary to pass bankruptcy laws as soon as possible. We have information that this law will soon appear in the congregation procedure. We believe that it is important because the law is also based on the question of bankruptcy, i.e. it is necessary, in connection with legal certainty, to guarantee the rights of the lender, or the supplier of the equipment, that the object of the lising will not disappear in some acquired mass, but that it will effectively get out of the efficient mass and thus protect its rights, which should be regulated by the bankruptcy law. The last two remarks relating to this matter - as regards the Ambience and the World Bank, of course, that this law, along with some other laws, is a condition for the approval of certain loans by the World Bank. But it's amazing how irresponsible there is for individuals when they talk about the World Bank and not knowing about the World Bank, which brings me a lot of association to one of our fellow politicians, who was about to comment on the World Bank -- if it were a World Bank, it would open up in his hometown a branch where citizens could borrow. The observations of such a species simply do not stand and I find them irrelevant to the debate. But what's more important is the issue of the environment. Of course, laws cannot be the only criterion that contributes to creating a favourable environment for the development of economy or foreign investment. The laws depend primarily on their application. I am not going to talk about the concrete application of the law through the judiciary, but I am going to speak at all, and I am going to make one observation about the application of the law, which is why I believe that the application of the law is one of the aspects of a lot of abuse in this assembly. In fact, if we agree that legal certainty is needed for the development of the economy, we must agree that the application of the right is one of the basic preconditions of legal certainty. When the right is applied - either domestic law is applied or international law applies. In domestic law, and more importantly in the situation of international law, there must be no difference and no choice can be made which law is applied and which is not. That's why I think it's quite hypocritical when certain political parties talk about legal certainty, about the application of law, about creating ambience, and they make a difference when it comes to applying international law, so it's good to apply certain international conventions and not to some. This leads to volunteerism in the behaviour of the state, and to the situation of legal uncertainty. In particular, you cannot advocate on the one hand for legal certainty, and on the other hand be against those international obligations that this country has, for example, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. As international law applies in criminal law, so does business. As for companies, so do individuals. About that, gentlemen, and about the application of the right, about the necessity of law enforcement, about their need to improve life in this country, I think we all need to take a lot more care.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29392	The word has a folk ambassador, Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29393	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, a few words about the concession law. Let's start by saying that you in the government should once agree whether agencies are the best or the worst thing in the world, because in a number of laws that you're giving us here, the agency is the most needed thing, without which you can't live at all; the law says it's something that's wrong, that it's decadent, that it's like this anyway. It would be nice for you to come out in front of the MPs like the Government with the same opinion of one substance, not that you interpret the same thing in relation to some law, as it comes out. I made a joke with your colleague, Minister Vlahovic, when I read to him about the agency what was written in your law when we talked about the law on changes and additions to the Law on Privatisation. Agree on the government whether the agency is something that's right or wrong, so let's accept that it is, but unequivocal. Also, somehow you accepted it very easily, since last time it did not say it in the law, when you explained it a month and a half ago here, that you as a government share responsibility with parliament, that parliament adopts some concessions, etc. He should do every job he does; you should be responsible for what the government does, and Parliament should be responsible for what his job is. In this way, the proposal that was made was not particularly clever, so they gave you a good credential to share responsibility and to say - it's not the government's fault, it's the 250-smart parliament voted, that's how it should be, and the question is whether it should go that way. Something that is unequivocal to you, which is not good, in the government, is -- whenever you reach local self-government, and remember what you were saying about local self-government when you were an opposition, and when you determine what it's supposed to be like for local self-government, it basically turns out that nothing should belong to local self-government. So in this law, it was in the Privatisation Act, because those 5% are nothing, with what neither Minister Djelic nor Minister Vlahovic could explain, how to buy a factory and not pay taxes, and buy a piece of land or a house, put your head under the roof, and pay taxes on it. Also, those 5% in concessions will practically not cover what one who benefits from the concession will destroy in infrastructure. We're still not in a situation like a society where the communal sphere has an economic price and then we're going to give it to the fish thesis to benefit us from this and that and we're going to give it a concession for fish Tepsia, so we're going to separate only 5% for local self-government. It's best if we don't get anything if we don't get something worth it. This time it is not, so Mrs. Comic, as with that law, will not say - it is not a Beicen cement factory for two days for the Assembly, which she was. What you're about to give, let's say, to Lafarja, a concession for the exploitation of the lagers in the area of the Belican municipality and for the exploitation of limestone in the territory of the Sremskimitrova municipality, but to leave them alone, so I can only talk about where I live. The vast majority of that land was the orchards and vineyards of those who lived in Beocino, so our ancestors. They were bought at a time when we lived, realistically speaking, for the Tepsia of the fish. Now it turns out that we sold the factory to Lafarja for a fish tepsi, and then we'll give them a concession for a fish tepsi. It would be best if we gave them everything. Then we wouldn't be able to tell if we took their money. We gave them gifts, so let them go with the good God. This way, if the local community gets 5%, I think all the stories about how the local community is the most important, how it's going to be decentralisation, an empty story. Where's our money, what Mr. Canak's saying? I have so many years to remember when our money was in Novi Sad, the Beacon money, I don't remember anything better than now when it was in Belgrade. Neither could they meet in Novi Sad nor Belgrade. If we're talking about our money, our money should be at our house, and we should pay every penny for what it does to us. That's what you proclaimed when you came to power. In two-and-a-half years, no legal act has ever been observed. It wasn't even seen through the concession law. That 5% for the local community, or 5% for the province, with an undefined way of spending money, will destroy our Vojvodina infrastructure. She's not usually bright. It's a reality. I don't think that's a good thing, and last time it was all about that stuff. If you've been listening here, you'd better listen to that part, rather than share your responsibility with parliament about how you're gonna give someone a concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29394	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. After that, MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29395	Dear Mrs Comic, distinguished representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today's law package, which is on the agenda in front of the Serbian Parliament, the concession law and the financial lease, I would like to add the guarantee fund law here, is certainly that segment of the legal infrastructure missing the total infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia. They are the segment that needs to complete all the advantages that need to ensure faster investment in the Republic of Serbia, allow for the inflow of foreign capital, free up the disciplines of domestic capital, which exist on the market of the Republic of Serbia, and make our legal infrastructure more compatible with the European Union's total infrastructure, and a group of rich and happy countries that Serbia is seeking. Given that the Liberals of Serbia will support the overall package of laws, I have no ambition to go here in detail. I will in principle and very short with a pair of cartoons, which are based on the principles of liberal ideas, the stories I come from, try to give some of my visions. I understand the law package before us as a package of necessary institutional frameworks to promote capital in one community, strengthen investment freedom and competition. Institutional building of the state is established rules for the play of capital in the markets. The Liberals of Serbia are viewed in the country's immediate economic future and often dare to say -- those communities that fail to create institutional frameworks for the launch of their capital resources, however they are, fail to become attractive even for capital investment on the side; or rather, they have capital, but there are no institutions of capitalism in Serbia. Or, rather, with this package of laws, we're fixing that investment opportunity. So what can be capitalised first in our business venture, at least as far as capitalists, investors from the European area are concerned, is the institutional arrangement of the state for capitalist innovation. It's a chance. Capitalists assess and assess legal and institutional frameworks for competition and on our market. The best investment with all advantages is the state's arrangement for capitalism. That's where we're most expected, and we've done relatively insufficiently. Private investors observe space and people here, and value them according to the degree of economic freedoms achieved. The institutions that provide and guarantee, not to remind you now of the methodology of leading institutes, I'm not even going to mention the latest forecasts. Investments in the world exceed three billion dollars a year. They are growing in our region, and legally according to two processes: the country's institutional arrangement by standards of capitalism and joining strategic associations, which guarantee security in the wider region. The whole package of laws has the logic of capitalism, to make it marketable. Therefore, to ensure the transport and capitalisation of the sleeping property rights, whether State or individual. The first image I see as a model from this framework, which had to be a reality, is an entrepreneur, who instead of a mortgage on immovableities in relation to 1:3 gets from a licking company through a bank machine or technology, lagging just a machine and providing a relationship with the help of a guarantee fund or a classic loan insurance company. An entrepreneur in high-productive economies does not bear the risks of his capital investment as we do; because, in the guarantee fund, we see one good intention for the state to try to replace the function played by insurance companies in developed capitalist and market conditions. That would be great, so that such houses are connected to the capitalist insurance industry, that they are present here too, so that the insurance price is re-secured in the related insurance and reinsurance chain. But that's gonna wait a little while. The void, as a good example of the direction of development and the intention of our achieved model of banking and insurance, will try to make up for the state. Bankers and insurance companies will enjoy until then national protection for freedom of access to the financial market with regard to the establishment of foreign banks and insurance companies where lease operations and packaging insurance and reassurance of business credit are standard transactions. I want to emphasise and open up a dilemma -- is it all the same for banks and insurance companies to access our economy and continue to be conditioned by the obligation to buy our banks' shares in recovery? The leading houses of Europe, rightly, look at such conditions that create illusions on a short deadline for, allegedly, national banking, national insurance jobs, as if it has long since been unclear that the criteria for new banking patriotism are opening up for the best and strongest to buy on the market both our best and our strongest. Several billion euros in straws, unrecorded property and property of citizens, unreliable records, centralized state property, ban on foreign land traffic, state actions in banks, are all risks, but also the chances of each other. In the area of concessions, the market for concessions, their portability, is also important, and that is where we have seen the risk field when research rights need to be transformed into rights to exploitation. What's the root solution? The model does not have the right to explore without the right to exploit, i.e. the right to explore, includes the right to exploit; which are guaranteed the privileges of the owner of concessions on research in obtaining concessions for exploitation; continue, as well as under what conditions to ensure exploitation of the surveyed, if the owner of the research concession decides to obstruct exploitation. It should be noted here that the new environmental law does not provide for the possibility of transferability of exploitation permits, so it can be an unwanted conflict of law. Anyway, the total package of laws that are before us today, and of course the adoption of that package in the Republic Assembly, of course is a step towards further complementing our legal infrastructure that covers miles of economy and investment. The Liberals of Serbia expect this to be another step in the right direction towards overall European integration, thus raising our economy and its activities to European models. The Liberals of Serbia will support and vote for the whole package of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29396	The word has a People's MP Milos Todorovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29397	Dear Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has not been three months since we discussed the proposal for a concession law and rejected it as a very bad proposal, and we have seen the same proposal as just a little sophisticated and processed. Cosmetics have done their part, but the bad essence of the law is consistently preserved. I do not know whether the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly allow the recently rejected bill to be reconsidered, because nothing new has happened, except that some MPs have changed their mind; in a previous vote on this same law, dissatisfied with 5% (in fact, they asked 50%), they voted against; what now happened when they were pleased with this proposed 5% solution, I do not know. Anyway, that's a little vague for me, probably in the discussion and their views here will clear up before us. The bill was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 April, with a proposal to be adopted by emergency procedure. It was planned to pass the law under a state of emergency and thus keep its promises and arrangements for future concessionaries. However, here today is the same as April 14th, because there is no TV broadcast of the National Assembly session, so it is still very extraordinary for us. If we compare this proposal today's concession laws with the one we rejected three months ago, it can be noted that some provisions are missing, but the essence of the law remains the same. The aim of this law is to make it possible, I repeat it as last time, to a certain group of people close to the government to come to concessions to use them to be rich for many years, regardless of the likely political changes following the upcoming parliamentary elections. Since we live, ladies and gentlemen, in Serbia, in a country of short memory, an even shorter constitution and law, there will be no great harm if this law is passed which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Soviets, is very bad; it will take a short while, of course, just until the election. Let's look at what's proposed in this short-term law. In the light of the proposal, we find the explanation that the bill instead of a series of rules relating to each of the possible forms of subsystems, once in a general provision covered all such tasks, thus establishing a flexible and secure legal framework. The big question is whether such general provisions will be freely interpreted in the future, the deadlines, and then directed in the very direction that neither the law nor the National Assembly wanted. In law alone, big news - no agency. In every law so far, the agency has been a mandatory element, and now it's a government law writer on sick leave, so they didn't predict that agency. Instead of the government, and the tender commission, the head would be in future problems that would arise around this law, and I guarantee you that it would be, it should be rubbing the agency, but this time the bill promoter didn't remember. In the procedure and the way in which concessions are awarded in Article 7. The draft law in the affairs of the competent ministry and government is withdrawn without real need by the National Assembly. If the object of concession is objects of strategic importance for the Republic or international importance, the proposal to grant concessions shall be submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly shall give an opinion to the Government. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an unnecessary demagogue, because the government will survive while it has the support of an artificially created majority in the National Assembly, and what will make it clear to it by its obedient majority? It's just a waste of time and a delay, because when we propose to the National Assembly of these concessions, we're going to lose three months here to make a decision about what the government has proposed to the National Assembly, because you have here this lightweight majority, which is less and less functioning every day. I also have some objections about these percentages that are given to local self-government units in which concession activity is carried out. As long as Vojvodina is to be given, let MPs from Vojvodina decide, but we have made the proposal still remain that the concession fee for local self-government units must be higher, because there, in these concessions, there can be great consequences for the environment and for the performance of these concessions, this rate must be far higher for local self-government units. Article 30 sets out the possibility to transfer the concession. He says, "The concessionary can transfer the concession to another person." There's no public tender, there's a simple transfer of concession. I suspect that in Serbia, one firm, possibly two, will specialize in participating in a public tender for the award of concessions, and then transfer these concessions to their friends, associates or some call partners. That is why I propose not to provide for the transfer of concessions. I said the same thing in the previous explanation of this bill, which has not passed. I really don't want to get into a situation again if we have to talk the same thing, because it's so obvious. Who can't carry out the contract, brother, let's return the concession, and it will continue to be received through a public tender, as you always say - transparently. In the end, I propose to the National Assembly that this proposal be rejected because nothing is better than the previous one we have very justifiedly rejected. When we talk about the Financial Lising Act, I have to admit that it's quite high-quality technically written and that this is one of the better laws that has been found here in the procedure. However, the implementation of this law itself will be very difficult to implement in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a very difficult transition period. We need to be realistic, we need to watch what's going on in our economy that's completely paralyzed, it can't give any effect in practice. We've got a huge drop in social product. Small and medium-sized enterprises, which are already largely established in the previous two years of work of this government and this assembly, practically do not work on the ground, do not exist. I agree that this law may raise the economic effect Minister Pitic claims will have. However, should we have come into a situation to wait for this law and so loudly announce it and to extract some of the last atoms of strength from the citizens and people who will enter this project around the financial lysing. There's a lot of vague things here. The protection of debtors is a sign of question, the interest rates are very high, you have to admit, everyone, there really isn't any dilemma. Furthermore, what effects of the Financial Lising Act did he give in the countries of our environment? We didn't get enough explanations. We have some information that he hasn't shown himself in the right light and the way he should live in the countries of our environment. After all, an example of Bulgaria was mentioned here. We have never seen an example of Bulgaria, Romania and other countries in an environment that has always been uninteresting to us. Here we will have, in my opinion, a very vague economic effect: how it will go about this supply of equipment, the lack of capital investment, whether it is possible to correct the adoption of this law, whether the law on publishing law will come into the process, to enter along with this law as a project in our everyday life. There's a lot of stuff. God help you. The SSJ parliamentary club will still not vote for the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29398	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and after him, the MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29399	In old practice, the government surprises us with the bad laws and proposals, the government's representatives, as soon as they come out for this pay phone, they admit it. If you look at the stenogram, what the government representative said, read his explanation of the bill, and look at what is in the provisions of the bill, then you can see that something is wrong. It works more mercifully when a representative of the government announces what he wrote in an explanation than what is contained in the provisions. Of course, it would have been good if the government's representative had consulted on the law on financial leases, one lawyer, one MP. He had to be in the Netherlands for a year because 10-12 years ago he was too busy doing financial lease business. The man was working with a car, helping some criminals, so he had to flee abroad. Dragoljub Stamenkovic: Is that Bosko Ristic? Probably that's the man. But that's not the problem either. The problem is that, if it is considered necessary to regulate the area of financial leases, it could be done with one addition to the provision of 550 of the Liabilities Act in the part of a classic lease; and, of course, behind the provisions of the Liabilities Act that regulate banking transactions to insert financial leases as one of the business of providing financial services. The promoter has not been defined for this, he has defined that the special law regulates it. We have tried to bring many amendments into line with the existing legal system of bonds -- the legal aspect of this legal business and nothing else. I have to make a statement here to the motionant. In his explanation, this is a completely complete regulation that regulates all aspects of the financial lease. Unfortunately, you only regulate one bonding aspect, and you don't regulate these other aspects. You've had a chance to hear from my predecessors that this economic or this luxuriant interest is precisely due to the avoidance of customs, taxes and other matters. But you certainly have the need to pass this law, not only because of your obligations to the international community, but because of the fact that neither the National Bank nor the business banks, nor even the tax administration today can answer you how to register a vehicle (a truck, a bus) if you bought it on a lease. So it's not even about the financial, it's about that simple lease where you're from a manufacturer who's able to deliver that equipment with big repayment deadlines, etc. In the National Bank today, you don't have a man who knows how to direct a potential recipient of that lysing. You probably need the law, but unfortunately, you don't even regulate it with this law. I'm saying that we've tried to bring things into line with the provisions and principles of the Bond Relations Act. You had a chance to hear that certain provisions were completely unsustainable. If you prescribe a minimum amount of lease fees, and you are calling for the freedom of contract, and you are still bound by some depreciation rates, then you have exceeded the powers, because you, in practice, only regulate the relationship between the Contracting Parties by this law. So the state doesn't appear as a contracting party, the state doesn't appear as someone who needs to protect some interest. I don't know why the state would protect the interest of a leaser or a leaser in that amount would be the minimum amount of the licking fee. As far as this united debate is concerned, the only common and touching point for these two issues is the fact that there are people with free resources and that they believe that this investment can make more money, that capital will bring them more income than they will have in the bank or that they will otherwise place funds. We already have experience with lysing and we also have direct experience - on lysing are taken machines that have paved these streets. That's what to say. It's not going to be good if this financial lease bill is the only benefit that people are going to buy vehicles, and it's probably intended to be directed primarily at plants, equipment that our economy can't provide at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29400	The People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people Dusan Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at the beginning, when you proposed this agenda, and when we determined it, it was really happy that after so much time on the agenda of this house, there was a single business topic. I thought that with the proposal of this law on financial lease, the competent ministry, as well as the Government as a proposing, have clear and honorable intentions, which is to directly influence and create an environment for reviving and encouraging economic activities. I think it would be more logical if today's meeting found a package of laws that would finally settle this area. So, in addition to the Financial Lising Act, there was also a law on foreign investment, a grant law, from which you flee, then a law on publishing law. I think that this would create really one environment for creating economic preconditions for foreign investment, financial licking and even regulating of such a substance. I would disagree with you if it really took two and a half years to realize that the donation policy was the wrong policy, as well as the foreign credit policy that someone has to repay and that they will revive our country's economic activities. Where is the economy today, especially at this time? A lot of results have been presented, and I think that I will talk about it much more when it comes to the agenda, Minister Vlahovic, but one assessment these days in the means of information, and I also think from the results of the business, is that the situation is extremely difficult, the maltene is catastrophic. The Financial Lising Act is a very easy law, the most declarative character, with rules of conduct that partially create legal certainty in relations that arise in the conclusion of financial lease transactions. Indeed, this law has the least imperial provisions left to regulate other system laws, and above all the tax, customs, accounting and accounting provisions, and especially the Law on Liabilities. And on the initiative of a co-worker from the ministry, we agreed yesterday that the Law on Bond Relations, which has long been passed, is one of the most perfect and best legal projects in Europe that regulates the area of bond relations. The Financial Lising Act is applied as a back of a specialis, as its provisions apply when they are contrary to other general character laws, and the provisions of other laws apply only to questions which are not regulated by this law, which is regulated at the beginning of Article 1. All this is nice and useful and you just convince me of it and then, in principle, warm-cold, in an explanation in Chapter 5, you mess up when you write - the adoption of this law is one of the grounds for granting the World Bank's loan to Serbia. Who represents the Republic of Serbia in the World Bank? Montenegrin Minister or Montenegrin authorised representative. When Mr Djelic arrives, we will also suggest to him that we Socialists, that it is still missed that Serbia has a representative in the International Monetary Fund, at least in the first two years, and in the World Bank of Montenegro. Will the World Bank decide on suppliers of equipment and funds or, God forbid, dictate the amount of compensation paid by the recipient of the lease, or the services that the citizens will pay? Will the price of transport in urban traffic or in public transport at all be higher in the means of public transport obtained by means of a financial lease, compared to the assets carried out by the carrier? Other examples of units of measures, tons of built-in asphalt, a kilometer of built-in traffic, municipal infrastructure can be listed here. I think the funding provided through the financial lease will be the most involved in public works, all of which will be paid by citizens and the state budget. On the other hand, whether domestic equipment manufacturers, vehicles will be employed to revive the machinery industry and vehicle manufacturers. Our companies don't have such ratings and credits, especially with foreign partners. If I add that domestic banks and potential leasers do not have financial potential, foreign capital will certainly affect the supplier, regardless of what Article 14 states that the leaser is obliged to obtain the object of the lising from the delivery service provider designated by the leaser according to the specification of the lising recipient. The opinion of SPS MPs is that this is precisely why a third intermediary of the leaser, who has the right to property on the subject of the lising, who expensively collects his service and dictates the amount of compensation, the acquisition of equipment through a financial lease will be more expensive even than through bank loans. Finally, since we are proposing a series of amendments, 15, and we heard commendations yesterday about our opinions on the amendments, I would like you to plead, since we didn't have it on the board, whether any amendments to the Socialist Party were accepted. I am very interested and I would like you to explain the situation and how much funds have entered Bulgaria through the financial lease and which are in the potential of Bulgarian banks and Bulgarian businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29402	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to take the opportunity first to thank for most of the communication and debate being in one spirit of relatively technical character, with respect to the nature of this law. I especially thank those who have really discussed this law in a very metric way, and I really think it's one quality that perhaps does not prevail in other situations. Normally, I'm not going to look back on those political comments (and I don't think there's any reason to waste time on that), but what are more comments of technical character. First, on the question of reasons for the law itself and whether our legal system regulates this matter. I've tried to be pretty clear, but it looks like somewhere else might be a little vague, so there's an opportunity for extra controversy. In any case, the Lising Act does not define a lease contract in a way developed in the newer part of business traffic; the Lising Act defines a certain form of conditionally classical legal transactions, which are close to the financial lease, and I have cited which are about those positions, but in addition to the Lising Treaty itself in the concept of financial leases there are also elements of a status-priority and procedural character; in addition to being the subject of this law, it is, normally, that the whole matter is complemented by aspects for which someone expressed concern about tax treatment, customs, and that is also the part which will be regulated by the laws of the financial, or fiscal area. I have to comment, there's no Mr. Michaels, but I can't catch that logic of thinking that there's no environment on the one hand, and on the other hand, when there's a law that says they're going to vote then they're not going to be created by creating a legislative infrastructure that there is, and he said that technical law belongs to a circle of those laws that can just help create this business environment. Calling on the Heritage Foundation and other foundations -- I already explained that last time, the parameters used are such that other foundations showed where we are and other institutions were talking about the most dynamic process at the beginning of the transition in partnership with countries in transition. So the question is, normally, what is used for the parameters and I comment briefly on why I really don't think we should bother around here. I think we should concentrate on the law itself and see if what is envisaged and proposed belongs to what we want to see in Serbia as a law. I had no intention of raising unwarranted optimism, and I only said that this law fills the legal gap, regulates certain matter in a way that can and can help the development of the economy, open the possibility that Serbia's economy could be restored to the capital investment, to help the population standard. It's one segment in the entire complex of legislative activity that can make its contribution, which I personally don't think is small, because this law really opens up on a broad front the possibilities for these business activities to be realised. Bulgaria itself is concerned, in one year, with over a billion dollars of lising activity, as well as stocks under the law. These are, believe me, activities that are and how they are spread in countries in the environment. And not to mention whether there's an investment or not, if Mr. Michael is there, also the figures speak unwittingly about where we are today and where we were last year and where we were in previous years on the incidence of foreign capital in the social product. It is only short, when you look at the first five years in Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, in countries that we view as some advanced countries in transition, we are at the rate of foreign capital inflows in the social product at the top. This refers to between 3-4% of participation in the social product. In the first five years of transition, we are at the top. When we look at where these countries are today, they are usually 8-10% inflows of social product. This shows how much possible the trunk can be filled with the inflow of foreign direct investment. Will there be a flood licking company? The possibility of abuse does not mean that it is necessary to prohibit or prevent something from being defined in order to create something. Normally, the role of the legislator in various areas of economic practice is to enable it to live up to what is positive and to sort of regulate what can actually bring about some potential examples of abuse. Perhaps in more specific things, the same about the lising, I would recommend to Mr. Obradovic, if he is there, he is not. I'm sorry, but I have to comment. So these remarks that have been made show that either the law is not carefully read or the character of the law is not recognized, because the law itself states, in Article 42, in Article 33, that the commentary that the recipient of the lising cannot buy is not standing at all. So by careful reading of the law, even less careful, you'll see it's not true. The issue of unequal legal security of participants. Please, the whole law is based to a large extent on the serious part, where we're making a buckle, on the bonding law. Article 414. The law on bond relations is currently talking about solidarity. So, the question of unequal rights of participants, please look at Article 414, you will see that this member, in part of the issue of solidarity of responsibility, defines the rights and obligations in the work of those obligations. So with those comments that I really think may be the result of a lack of guidance in this matter, I want to really thank those who have shown that this matter and how they understand. What? If you recognize yourself in that. I'd like to thank you, too, and I'm happy to accompany your exposure. It's not just you and others, who have just taken advantage of this opportunity to talk about this matter, and I'm sure most of them here in parliament see, and that's the kind of dialogue that will recognize the laws that have these components, that kind of character. Independent of party commitment, it is of interest to vote for those laws that deserve common attention. I sincerely hope that those parties who sometimes do not see the space to vote for what reasons, too, will recognise through this law the possibility of contributing to Serbia's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29404	I'm fixing a break in today's work. We will begin the afternoon part with the word of the People's MP Dusan Ilic, and after that, the MP Milos Lukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, in order to determine the quorum and the continuation of the session in the joint principled search on the draft law on financial leases and the proposal for a concession law, let us determine whether we have a quorum for work. Please insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that we have a quorum and we can continue the debate according to applications for the word of the MPs. The People's Messenger Dusan Ilic has the word. The next reported word is MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29406	It's really very uninspiring to talk in front of an empty gym, no journalists and no cameras. I'd like to start by clarifying one problem with the Rules of Procedure, given that there is a united search. Mr Pajtic initially said that it is good to unite the draft laws proposed by the same ministry, however, the problem is that we have this business provision that MPs must when reporting their discussions to write whether they speak for or against the law, so that congregation services have a problem, because I want to vote in favour of the law on financial lease and against concession laws. This business problem is just another one in a series of failures of this Rules of Procedure, and it would be appropriate to change that once already and to arrange this Rules of Procedure so that parliament is a place where we will seriously discuss the laws. In the beginning, I will only talk about the problems that I think are important in the Financial Lising Law proposal. Unfortunately, neither the minister nor his deputies are present, which further lowers the level of debate. In my view, the key problem is that this law makes it unsettled and in me creates one dissatisfaction, that the transitional provisions concerning Articles 44 to 52 say it is one law with a delayed fact, since the registry will start operating from 1 January 2004. By this point, we will have great problems forming that register, given that, as we can see from the amendment, there are two stakeholders, and the Ministry has not yet come forward. The very interesting amendments that came from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, whose basic idea is that the registry is run by the Chamber of Commerce, as a set of all branches and professions, as an organisation that unites them all. As I noticed, the discussions of the Socialist Party of Serbia's MPs also went that way. Unfortunately, the ministry and representatives of the ministry have not spoken at all about these amendments, but not about their own sighting of the registry. That's one serious problem I'm pointing to. We in the Democratic Party of Serbia are seriously considering supporting these amendments related to the keeping of registers in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, for the simple reason why the ministry has not yet declared how it wants to lead. Another important question I would like to point out and which the Ministry did not resolve with this bill is the problem of multiple taxation, which will occur when the lease service is provided, i.e. the unification of taxes on services, financial transactions and sales taxes. It is something that will make these lising services more expensive in the period until 2004, when we all expect that we will vote on changes in tax laws and introduce value added tax. This is a serious failure and a problem, which is not allowed to provide more cheaply lising services by 2004. When we add that to this first one that I was talking about, the problem of the register, the question opens up as justifiable -- when this law is really going to start giving its full effects. These are two fundamental objections to this bill, which we from the Democratic Party of Serbia will support, for the simple reason that we believe that bond relations cannot fully regulate these relations in the economy, and at the same time the good experiences of the countries in the environment tell us that this is something that our economy needs to be more competitive. As for the concession law, I am sorry that the minister is not present so that he can explain the proposal to us in a third way, since we have not received any amendments to the law from the first to the second reading, or voting. I think it would be a pain to have the minister explain something again that he himself is aware will be voted upon by a political compromise, aimed at maintaining this thin majority of the government. The Democratic Party of Serbia has put forward its bill, long before the ministry. The conceptal differences are, that's what my colleague Michael was talking about, and that's what my colleagues are going to talk about, and they're going to come after me. In any case, it is unfortunate that such serious laws, primarily the law on concessions, but also the law on financial leases, which are necessary and beyond necessary, become victims of political games, whose aim is to incentivise the majority that will support this government without legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29407	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic. He's giving up. ) The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, and then National MP Radojko Petric, a Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29408	If I, God forbid, had to propose a single debate on these two proposals, I'd tell you they have one touch point, and that's the same representative of the promoter. Absolutely nothing binds these two proposals anymore, so that today we can take half the time to discuss such significant legal proposals. As far as these proposals are concerned, they, like almost all the laws that this assembly has received in the last two and a half years, are one very bad translation of some foreign legislation. Since it's obvious that there's no power in the government to make a good legal proposal, I think it's high time at least for good translators, people who can translate the law, to link it to our legal order. The fact that you made these two proposals, especially in the Financial Lising Bill, completely negates our legal order. I am particularly surprised that it was allowed by a proposing representative, Mr Goran Pitic, who otherwise teaches students economic history, so it would be logical that at least he admits that something in this country was before this government and before the majority. The financial lease existed in the country of SFRY, remember, 15 or 17 years ago. That's when it was about the lysing, and it was about the financial lysing. You know well that a company in Slovenia sold FIAT's cars, that it was a very bad experience for citizens of Serbia and then Yugoslavia, because a number of people lost those cars, although it paid off certain wars under that lease agreement. I don't expect any better experience from this law. On the contrary. We in the Serbian Radical Party, in our parliamentary group, when we look at the proposals submitted by the Government, necessarily analyse the objective interpretation of the rules, and what is obviously what can be read among the lines. In the draft Financial Lising Act, we have read among the lines, aimed at interpreting that this law wants you to introduce some new "Difens", which will monitor the dirty money acquired, and to legalise the use of those expensive construction machines that "Difens" paved the way for Serbia. The minister said here that this law allows citizens in Serbia to deal with business without hiring their own capital. The minister isn't here, but I'd like him to explain how he feels about it. Think in a way that a leaser will get some credit, buy expensive equipment for him and rent it under his terms to a leaser. Isn't it more normal for a leaser to buy a particular machine directly on credit, benefit from what he needs and thus develop his activity? If the minister thought that without his own capital, people could deal with the business, maybe he thought that through a small door, a financial circle would be made, that, say, the flag would be sold on the lease, that someone who got the money would buy the equipment, and then here he would issue with a financial lease contract and, of course, use the facilities, the land and all the other accompanying functions that Zastava has. Since there's not much time, I'm only going to say about the concession law that it's obvious that the government has reached out to Nenado Chanka. What we've seen here, the deal is that the government has accepted a number of Cank's amendments, but what you can't see, and the truth is, it's that Canak has conditioned the government to choose Mr Ostojic for the Attorney General. And the other night he says on Pink TV at Klopca, where he and his best man, Kostic, was a guest: "I am proud of that choice," and he says, "Is, yes, godfather, we have chosen well." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29409	The word has been made by MP Radojko Petrovic, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, next reported as saying is MP Milutin Salesovic, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29410	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, although two points of the agenda, the draft law on financial leases and the proposal for a concession law have been joined, I will only tie my presentation to the draft law on financial lease. It is good that a whole new economic law is put on the agenda of this congregation. What is the economic situation in Serbia and the decline in the standard of living of citizens, it would be normal to deal with economic issues much more often. We see that the situation in the economy is getting worse, that production is falling from month to month, that profits are falling, pensions are falling, the country's debt is increasing and external trade imbalances, that equipment is participating in imports with 12% and that investments are falling. For all these reasons, it would be logical for the government to do much more in the sense that it would trigger economic development. This will not be achieved unless production increases. Therefore, the government would have to find forms and incentives to develop the economy more vigorously. This Financial Lising Act means a step towards finding ways to make it easier to obtain machinery and equipment, and to start production. It must be said immediately that the supply of equipment through a financial lease is quite expensive. It is not disputed that it should also be possible to obtain equipment through a financial lease, but other cheaper forms should be encouraged in which modern equipment can be obtained. But first, let's look at what the term financial lease represents in terms of this law. It's one transaction, one procedure based on which one company, meaning one person, whether legal or physical, instead of buying the machines and equipment it needs, addresses a specialised legal person, that it needs the equipment to be leased on a specified deadline. At the end of that deadline, the leaser, meaning that user, can extend the lease, can buy the equipment and can return the equipment. It should be borne in mind that financial leases differ from the usual name of the operating lease that was in practice, where the contract between the leaser and the equipment provider is directly concluded. This was about renting equipment. Three parties always participate in the process of supplying equipment through a financial lease: the supplier of equipment, the lender of the lease and the recipient of the lease. It is precisely because of this mediator who collects his services dearly, that the supply of equipment through the lysing is quite expensive. It's more expensive than getting equipment through a financial loan through banks. However, it is good that there is a possibility that equipment can be obtained without pre-engaged financial resources, where the lease should actually be paid out of the revenue generated by that equipment. If our companies were in a good position, it would be better if the equipment was purchased directly from the delivery company, it would be much faster and cheaper. However, it is known that our companies do not enjoy such credibility with foreign partners, and that this possibility is little to be used. Our banks also have no potential to significantly encourage the acquisition of equipment through credit, and on the other hand there is no safe legal instrument that loans are being charged; this is nothing new, unfortunately, in one longer period such a situation is present. For all things said, it is surprising that the government does not provide greater financial and non-financial support for equipment. In August of last year, we received a proposal for a guarantee fund law. The law proposed that a fund be set up in its own state, through which guarantees would be issued to businesses so that banks could use credits for the purchase of equipment. The proposed law deserves attention and really speaks of the government making efforts to do something about the development of the economy. However, it has been nine months, and the proposal for a guarantee fund law will only be discussed in this assembly. It remains unclear, we see how difficult the situation is, the proposal is essentially a good proposal, but nine months are waiting for the issue to come on the agenda. A month and a half ago, in fact on 3 April, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs held a presentation of the draft financial lease law in this assembly. The meeting was attended by several representatives of foreign banks who were open to us. The issue remains open -- the importance of such interest, is it better to encourage our development through direct investment and loans, or is it more cost-effective and safe to do so through a financial lease. I guess that's it. Let us bear in mind that this is mainly from funds collected from domestic sources, primarily from our citizens. Does this look a bit like the investment of Slovenia's Mercator, which has received a 10m-euro loan from Raiffeisen Bank of Yugoslavia for the construction of a megamarket in New Belgrade, is the situation created for our citizens' money to finance foreign investments in our country as well? I think we've all been well informed that these foreign banks that have come to us, which we've been looking forward to fostering economic development, are going to grant loans somewhere up to 15,000 euros, nothing more. There's no serious approach to more significant means of intervening some factory's equipment, to build a new one, and so on. These are the questions again, that is, the money of our citizens. Is that a little bit of a hindrance to get the resources and organize production better than we've ever seen before? Regardless of all the shortcomings that have been brought forward in this law, however, the SPS MPs generally believe that this law should be passed. In particular, we will support its adoption if significant improvements are made in relation to the proposal. In that sense, SPS MPs submitted 15 amendments. When the amendments were submitted, we managed with a purely professional approach. We hope that more of our proposals will be accepted, and under this condition we are prepared to support this law which should essentially exist and be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29411	The word has the People's MP Milutin Svedovic, not present. The word has been issued by MP Veroljub Arsic, the SRS parliamentary group, and next reported is MP Nebojsa Jovic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29412	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here it is again on the agenda of a concession law which, you can say, is exactly the same as the previous law that this assembly did not adopt. My colleague, Verica Radeta, said that the reasons for this law to be re-emerged on the agenda of this assembly and that most likely, on the blackmail of Mr Chanko and the fulfillment of his terms, this law will be passed. This concession law was preceded by some other laws. One of the most important is the labour law which gave the employer, i.e. the future beneficiaries of concessions unlimited rights, and unfortunately this government does not have any social programme to eliminate their rights and consequences. Furthermore, the government sought to bring electricity prices, motor fuels, life supplies into line, and all according to the dictatorship of the European Union and other foreign factors that helped DOS and financed it to come to power. This concession law is actually a price this government must pay its sponsors. In principle, it is necessary to resolve the legal giving of concessions and it is not at all dangerous if these concessions refer to local municipal infrastructure, as some colleagues said, to traffic infrastructure, because for that, truth be told, we do not have enough resources to build the infrastructure we need ourselves; and also, in telecommunications. What raises certain doubts about the sincerity of the government's work is giving concessions to the natural resources that are being restored. Such natural resources in Serbia have, you can say, quite. So other than energy wealth like coal, because 60% of the electricity produced is based on fossil fuel exploitation, and the most coal, there is the Mining-Topionary Basen Bor. These are actually the real reasons for passing one of these laws, because someone needs to exploit what is in the world very little and it is increasingly expensive for its exploitation, for cheap money here in Serbia, with a reduced workforce and a number of workers who meet their standards and salaries that meet our standard of living, means very low. That's why the SRS is the most against this law. If we're right, that's right, the best example is a very mining-topic base pine, and it seems to me that someone embarrassed the miners and admitted engineers that there, if they can't get their ore out, they're planting peanuts. Just to remind ourselves that experts, both world and domestic, suggested that for the start of commercial production in Majdanpek, in Bor, it takes about $35m to reconstruct the machinery, and about $35m to discover the gap, meaning, to a rich ore site; to make about one such investment worth about two years. Now we could already exploit at the cost of our mining wealth. Thus, giving concessions to foreign concessionaries would be much bigger than now. However, this government has done everything possible to ensure that production there is completely frozen, that concessions are given as cheaply as possible for whoever takes them. These are the reasons why the SRS is essentially against one of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29413	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Jovic, an SPS MP group, and the next reported for the word is MP Slavoljub Matic, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29414	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, the proposal for a law on financial lising is a whole new law in the field of economics; so far, licking in these areas has been present mostly at the level of theory, because our current legislation did not prevent this kind of legal work, but did not speed it up much. As a result, high expectations are made of the announced financial lease law in the domestic economy. The reason for the adoption of the review is to ensure legal certainty in the relations arising from the business of the financial lease. This law regulates only financial leases, as one specific type of three-dimensional credit relationship. This means that an entrepreneur or company who needs new equipment, and has no money to buy it directly, addresses the financier, the leaser, with the specification of the necessary equipment and the name of the manufacturer. The leaser buys equipment from that manufacturer and transfers the right to use on the losin recipient's equipment. The subject of the financial lease is a mobile non-consumable thing, equipment, facilities, vehicles and the like. I believe it is necessary to extend the terms of the financial lease and to supplement Article 4. The bill also includes intellectual property, technology, licenses, and everything for better quality rounding of all activities, in order to speed up economic activity, as you point out in the reasoning of the law. It is necessary if it is known that the level of industrial production in the first three months of this year in Serbia is lower than last year's 6.4%. This signals that industrial production will be a serious problem for the domestic economy this year, as well as for the growth of unemployment, if it is known that by 3.7% the number of employees was reduced compared to January last year, while the number of people looking for a job increased by 18% compared to January last year. These may be the reasons why this law covers only financially, not so-called. an operational and business lease where, after the lease period has expired, the user returns the object of the leaser to the leaser. In the financial lease, the leaser, after the lease period, buys the object of the lising. We consider it necessary to assume that he has the right to prevent the purchase of the lising object of the one who was the recipient of the lising after the reconciliation of all the contractual wars. The law foresees privileges both on the part of the lender and on the side of the leaser, more on the side of the leaser, because one of the most important conditions for the execution of the lease is to enable and provide the leaser to, in the event that the leaser does not appease the contractual obligations, he can quickly and cheaply recover the state's issue of the lising. Without it, there's no financial lease, there's just a simple lease. For a leaser, the most important thing is to regulate security, if the recipient does not settle his obligations, for example, if he does not pay two or three wars consecutively. There should be a deadline, within which time it takes the leaser to pay for the war, how to get the leaser to own things. Currently, according to the current legislation, sanctions for failure to fulfil obligations are the termination of the contract, and the next step is a court case. It's inadmissible if we know what the ineffectiveness of our judicial system is. I therefore welcome the solution, although still in the court's work, that the court, on a proposal from the parties, will set a hearing on which it will establish in the minutes that the parties agreed that, in the event of non-payment of the lease payment by the beneficiaries, the leaser has the right to take the subject of the lease into the state. The law protects the rights of the recipient of the lising, especially in relation to the deliveryer of the subject matter. As a rule, leasers will be powerful foreign or domestic companies, and recipients will be entrepreneurs or companies whose equipment is necessary and will accept even unfavourable conditions to reach it. Therefore, the law should regulate certain issues, that there is greater legal certainty, and the lease agreement must be concluded in writing. This is the condition of his rightfulness, that there is a clue to what the parties agreed on. You can't release a leaser by contract for what's-his-name. legal shortcomings in the equipment which is the subject of the lising. In the event of a lack of equipment, the leaser is obliged to remove them or, if that fails, to compensate for any damage to legal interference. In order for financial leases to actually come to life, they must change or, better say, agree on customs and tax solutions that should provide benefits for both the donor and the leaser. In addition to the protection, the lender and the leaser are the most important tax and customs reliefs, because it must be determined whether and who is the taxpayer and the customs debtor, the recipient or the leaser; this will affect the fixed price of the transaction, which is the competitiveness of the financial lease as a financial product, because at the applicable tax and customs rates financial lease will be an expensive category. So financial licking requires stimulation, which is, above all, a reduction in customs duties and an additional value tax, with which it is delayed. The importance of lising can be of great importance to the economy, but it will have meaning for the country's development if it is used to start production, not just to meet consumer needs, such as, say, car purchase. As I said at the outset, this is a whole new law, and it is trying to regulate all relevant questions about lising activity in one place. The user will appreciate what is more favourable to him: credit or licking. At this point, as I was saying, until he agrees with the tax and customs laws, I believe that licking is a more expensive category than credit, which is why I doubt financial leases will speed up economic activity in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29415	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic. The next to be reported is the MP of the people, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29416	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, just one question regarding the financial lease law, which is the problem of double taxation. I'm asking for that answer, otherwise the DSS won't support this legal project. As for the concession law, we talked about it, and I think it's a shame that you missed the opportunity to put something in this proposal that's already been offered through our proposal for a concession law. I assume you've had the opportunity to read our proposal, especially the part about decentralisation in the right sense. I suppose it certainly matters that we have this law as soon as possible, but is putting it on the agenda of this same proposal, without any change, the fruit of political compromise with the Dukes? If it is, I think you're wrong. As far as this first question is concerned, if you can, give us an answer. I say we vote for this law, not for concessions, because we thought our proposal was a little better than yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29417	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. The next reported word is Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I must tell you that we here have a fundamental problem of procedural nature. Namely, the promoter - The Government of the Republic has authorised the resolute minister, Prof. Dr. Pitic, to explain this law. I remind you, Minister Pitic, to this day, as far as I know, has not taken an oath before this assembly. I say, it's a procedural nature, but respect for the procedure is ultimately respect and the implementation of democracy. The reminders for the sake of being on a joint list of elected members of the government have been given an explanation from the newly elected Prime Minister that Professor Dr Pitic is on an official trip to Belgium or the Netherlands; where you were, where you were, which destination, I have no idea and no one can hit you. You contract a job or a few hundred thousand-euro or euro job, as you like to say, and the Law on the selection of government members, in particular the Rules of Procedure clearly states that each member of the government lays down before this assembly. Why am I pointing this out? For the simple reason that these laws are important, especially the concession law. What tomorrow will be, gentlemen, if, as you say, you want to set out all the details, and especially when it comes to concessions and this financial licking, if someone comes in and makes a joke and says, well, gentlemen, that's what the minister who didn't take the oath told you, in the meantime, we've changed it, so please feel sorry for it. It may be funny to you, Minister, but anything from you is possible. I don't mean you personally, but it's all possible to expect from the congregation's majority, so any surprise for us radicals is nothing new, but we're in principle for respect of laws and procedures. You can do it by force, whatever you want, but you won't do it as long as you think. As far as these laws are concerned, specifically the draft financial lease law is not a bad idea. It's ideally good. Gentlemen, you've got the wrong time. If you had proposed this law in 2001, it would have been a full hit. At that time, such and similar laws were to be passed, or proposed by the Government, and you suggest, gentlemen, at the end of your term. Why? Just out of the satisfaction of some form, as we would say -- here's another one in a series of reform laws proposed by the government. What is the essence of this financial lease law? To improve, to stimulate domestic production, to in some way motivate citizens of Serbia to buy goods in a easier way, primarily domestic producers, and you, gentlemen, in these two and a half years, have completely destroyed domestic production. What are you doing now? You're passing a law that is a superguarantee to those from abroad who want to sell their products on our market. You can't, gentlemen, like that. Instead of having a normal economic relationship between the buyer and the seller, you want this law to make sure that you guarantee someone who sells their equipment or gives financial resources to the lease that in any case he's unscathed. Where is your respect for economic laws, as you said, the law of the market. That, gentlemen, is one business risk, it's in the domain of business risk. If the buyer sells to someone, and in this case, if he gives someone the equipment and the machines to lick, it's his risk if that leaser fails, financially, it's his risk. How has that been regulated so far? It's been regulated by the Bond Relations Act, but you're introducing a new category next to the supplier, the donor and the recipient. There is a guarantee for those who invest - if their recipient or user of these funds or equipment fails, their equipment is safe and will return to them. You can't do that, gentlemen. It's nowhere in the world. Leave those stories to you - in all transition countries. In Russia they tried to apply a similar model, especially in the field of mining, so the law collapsed because some members of the current government there were reformers. As the reformers are successful, they must no longer enter Russia, except with blue persons, as Mr. Medojevic points out. As far as the concession law is concerned, the concession law is only the result of intra-DOS trade and nothing more, gentlemen. He has a task and a clear goal with these changes -- when someone is interested in investing in water and urban infrastructure in advance, it will be included in him so far, and in these stories how you provide new investments with that law, no one else, gentlemen, believes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29419	I thank the People's MP, Milorad Mircic, and especially because he reminded us of the failure we really made. I apologize to the entire National Assembly. You're right, there's been a breach. The Minister of Economic Relations of the Foreign Affairs, whom we have chosen, was not present on the day the oath was taken, so I would ask if he could take an oath now. It says after the election. The minister has been elected, so it's another formal way to take an oath. I apologized for the failure. I ask the Minister to repeat the text of the oath behind my words: "I swear that in my work I will abide by the Constitution and the law and that I will perform my duties as a member of the Government with responsibility and security. "The minister repeats the text of the oath. ) I thank Mr. Minister, and thank the MP, Milorad Mircic, who reminded us that we had made this failure. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, and the next declared word is MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29420	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29421	People's MP, Mr. Ilic, do you need so little fun?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29422	There was a lot of talk today about the first item of the agenda, and there was little talk about the concession law. My colleagues probably had in mind that at one of the previous sessions there were more words about the proposal for this law, and therefore they paid little attention, but I feel the need to touch the proposal for a concession law in my presentation and to express my opinion, i.e. to disagree with some of the drafts of this law. In general, the law has good sides, but in some segments let me express my disagreement; I don't think it's right that those provisions stand. First of all, I'm thinking of a member of the 5th proposed law. Point 2) says: "Building, rebuilding, maintenance and use of water facilities, including dams and accumulating lakes, water supply systems" etc. I don't think this provision should stand, that this part is not subject to the concession law. Also, point 12 should not stand for text - the use of health institutions or their reconstruction, modernisation and the like, nor point 14) relating to the use of thermal water for health and production purposes. Why am I saying this? I understand the need and continuity of the engagement of foreign capital of a person who wants to invest in our country to participate in the construction of our country itself, in the use of certain economic resources, in achieving and sharing profits. All of this is understandable, but it is not logical, nor is it just that we give the foreign concessionaire objects of strategic importance built by the means of the state, which are in office, and many of these facilities are built by means of citizens through self-dependence. Now, according to this bill, we need to give these facilities to the concessionaries for a certain use, let's say up to 30 years, as planned. It's not fair and it's not appropriate. In this way, we will damage those people who invested, not only as a state, but also as citizens through self-dependence. Absurd is an existing medical facility to be given under concessions. It's okay to make a concessionary deal, contract, create new facilities, organise health care and invest their resources on other plans, that's fine. Secondly, I would particularly like to emphasise - I absolutely agree with Article 28 of the proposed law, which provides for 5% of the amount on behalf of the Autonomous province and 5% for funding local self-government. It's totally fine. However, according to this article, one question follows; Mr. Minister, I am telling you, and the question is for the whole government: how will this concession law be applied in Kosovo and Metohija? We know there's a lot going on down there. It is a weak reaction by both our government and the Council of Ministers of the State Community; it is an insufficient and undecided reaction to everything Mr Steiner does with his mission in Kosovo and Metohija at the expense of the national and state interests of the Serbian state. It should be borne in mind that there are a number of valuable economic facilities, valuable mines with mines, and not to mention Brezovica as a tourist center and spa with rich thermal mineral waters and not to list all these treasures, and Mr Steiner has given himself the right, past Resolution 1244, to have and to represent himself as the owner of the property, which is actually the property of the Republic of Serbia. He sells the companies, and even dared, in addition to transferring certain powers to Kosovo institutions, to now sell and privatise state and social property, which does not belong to him under Resolution 1244. Why am I saying this? You'll say, it's not my sector, it's not the privatisation sector. Privatisation is now paving the way for concessions. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Council of Ministers of the State Community, the Coordination Centre and the Assembly of Serbia do not react resolutely to the Security Council and prevent anarchy and abuse of Michael Steiner's mission, they will rob us of the property of the state of Serbia and that people below. It must react if we want to protect our national and state interests. Let me tell you, in the context of these plans envisioned by this law, in Kosovo and Metohija, and not all of them, there are huge reserves of coal ore; I know that before many of the West were interested, according to this, to invest in the construction of new thermal power plants. By way of concessions, we could as a state allow these foreign partners to invest there. If this is not how we react and allow Steiner, or whoever comes after him, to do whatever he wants, then we have done nothing to protect the property of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29423	The word is from MP Branimir Trajkovic, the DSS parliamentary group. You can't, there's no basis for replication. The following is MP Dragan Ljubojevic, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29424	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about the concession law, as the DSS will support the Financial Lissing Act and the Guarantee Fund Act. As I said in my first presentation on 20 February this year about the concession law, the DSS shadow government drafted a proposal for a concession law as early as 2002, as one of its first draft laws. Unfortunately, this did not enter the assembly procedure because the DSS MPs were then expelled from the work of the Republic Assembly. So the government of the Republic of Serbia came out with its proposal for a concession law in September 2002. This is a brief note of the order of events related to the adoption of this bill. Our bill is more transparent; and, in my deep conviction, our bill envisioned a fairer distribution of money received from concessions. I'm going to look back at a few, in my opinion, the most well-known differences between these two draft laws. The DSS is proposing to the agency. So, in the conduct of concession, giving, the DSS proposes to the agency. The government has proposed commissions to the resolution ministries. I think it's a better organization to give concessions if it's all done in one place. The Agency shall prepare the documents necessary for the determination of the subject-matter of the concession, propose concessions acts, monitor concession relations, assist concessioners and parties in the concession relationship. What is very important - runs the concession register, runs marketing and promotes investment needs for the Republic of Serbia. The bad side of the government's proposal is commissions, which are more than normal, which are according to the resolution ministries. The so-determined organization cannot bring quality, both in the award of concessions and throughout the organization. I believe that in this way only makes it possible for more malfeasance in individual ministries. Remember only the Ministry of Agriculture, where there are frequent various affairs, starts with frozen singing birds, irrigation systems, to this latest sugar affair. When I say this about the irrigation system, I'm going to remind you that the rest of the ministry spent only a tenth of what was planned last year for the irrigation system, and today we're facing a drought that takes on catastrophic conditions. Secondly, in our bill, forest goods cannot be the subject of concession. You have to agree with me, the woods are the lungs of a country, of a region and of cities. We could say more about that from the Ministry of Ecology. I don't think concessions on the edge of the forest are ever one German or any other Western European country would give. But I'd be here for a moment. This whole story revolves around foreign capital coming into our country. We, this poor country, Serbia, need more than just fresh money, and that's the thing. Foreign money. I fear it is not seen again in the privatisation process, so that of the 212 companies that were sold last year at auctions, only seven foreign investors buy, and the rest get without their own money from a domestic businessman, without a verified asset; that the figure that is in circulation from hundreds of families in Serbia that buy out social enterprises, and in direct contact with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does not appear as concessionaries. Just remember how JUL used to own "Serbishum", so only one private company at the time had the right to unlimited forest cutting, and today this same company sold all its growers and wood-processing factories, because today there is no longer that profit it once had. What I would agree with the minister, and what the DSS has been pointing to for more than a year, is to create a friendly environment for foreign capital. The whole set of laws must be followed by this concession law, for example: the donation law, which we do not have (and the minister said that it is in progress and I hope that it will be very soon on the agenda), the lising law, which we have on the agenda today, and I believe that it is very good and the law on foreign investment, the law on incentive and promotion of exports, which we discussed last November on the Committee on Development. In my opinion, it's a very important law on denationalization. Why does the government keep avoiding the law? I don't know how foreign concessionaries are going to accept and come to us here if we don't have that law on denationalization, and you see that we keep having problems just about that? Finally, there are no guarantees from the state for all contracts with foreign investors and foreign partners. Without these preconditions, you know, there's no investment. One, perhaps good, law on concessions cannot be ignored and bypassed by the government's bad policy. The government suggests, in Article 20, that only one interested person can appear in the tender and that the government gives him a concession. That should be considered because concessions are given for 30 years. In our bill, such a tender has failed, so there must be more than one participant in the tender. And now perhaps the most interesting thing for our citizens, according to us, is the concession fee. You, Minister, in the draft law, in Article 28, in the first sentence, say: "The funds achieved from the concession are the income of the Republic and are paid into the payment account of the Republic of Serbia's budget." Do you use the concession to patch holes in the budget? I agree that we should do that, but instead of investing in production and so directly affecting the greater standard of citizens, I think in that sense, this should have changed. The bill submitted by the DSS is much more liberal, and we offer more money to the local self-government and autonomous province, according to the rules of the concession act, which is foreseen by us. What is left to the local self-government, 5% in the law the government has proposed, is more than little. There is simply a lot of difference between these two draft laws, and it was difficult for the government's proposal to amend the amendments. That's why the DSS stayed in the position not to support this bill. And at the end of this presentation, I urge my fellow ambassadors from the Union of Duke Hungarians, the duchy leaguers, all those who voted against this law on 25 February this year, to come out and explain to the citizens what happened today to vote in favour of the proposal. What is it that the Serbian government has offered to the citizens of one part of its state, why not give it to the other citizens? Finally, the Democratic Party of Serbia will support the law on financial lease and guarantee fund law, since these are some new laws needed to create a friendly environment for foreign capital that needs our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29425	The word is from MP Dragan Ljubojevic, a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a long time, we have the opportunity to discuss the laws before an authorised representative of the government. Today, however, the authorised representative did not even explain it, and the majority of speakers did not speak to the proposed representative; during the session, the error was corrected and we have opportunities here to speak to ministers. But it is reiterated that the majority in the Serbian Parliament are bringing together a debate on laws that do not have almost any touch points, so we are given the opportunity to criticise bad government proposals in a much shorter period of time than this restrictive Rules of Procedure predicted. What characterizes these laws, primarily the Financial Lising Act, are some of the illogical elements contained in the very reasoning of this law, which the Proposer referred to the Assembly. In the second position of the argument - Reasons for the adoption of the financial lease law - the proposer says it allows for the acquisition of modern equipment, without hiring its own capital or funds obtained through credit. Finally, in the reasons for the adoption of the emergency law, it is said that the adoption of this law will allow the World Bank to grant credit. What exactly is here? Is there not going to be a loan or that this law allows for new loans? The essence of this law is that the government, which boasts of enjoying the great trust of the West, international monetary institutions, has no confidence whatsoever, but had to resort to one such law and introduce a third party into the business of lising, to regulate it by law. Therefore, the third party likely to receive a loan from the World Bank, the IMF or another financial institution for the purchase of equipment from the manufacturer will then give that equipment, i.e. craft or fixed assets to the manufacturer, or to some economic operator within our country and make a profit for that financial lease business. What else is behind this law? This is the fact that a large number of people close to this government have illegally reached capital. Now, thanks to this law and financial lease, they're going to try to place that capital in our economy and fertilize it, because it's mostly people who haven't come to enormous wealth with any work but simply by smuggling cigarettes, weapons, narcotics. They are unable to implement any economic activity in this country -- they will in this way fertilize that capital by showing up as a leaser to one of our companies and within that asset-giving activity to the company, and on the other hand, laundering dirty money. Another important moment is contained in Article 1 of this Act, paragraph 2, which says: "The entities and legal relations in the business of the financial lease created under this law will be subject to the provisions of other laws in cases which are not governed by this law. "In your explanation, you state that this law is a lex specialis. He can't be a lex specialis based on anything. Contractual obligations between the donor and the leaser should be regulated, i.e. if any dispute arises, to be settled under the Lising Relations Act. If the Law on Bond Relations is bad, then it is necessary to codify all these laws, cover everything with one law and overcome any problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29427	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29428	The honourable MPs, the honourable ministers, the esteemed of my Leskians, those good ones from DOS, of course under great quotes, not to call them by the name you call them, have made it impossible for us to see each other through small screens; I will continue to address you, with a dose of moderate satisfaction that the Financial Lissing Act after two and a half years of DOS rule still appeared before the MPs of the Assembly. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group - Slobodan Milosevic, I must express serious disagreement and concern that this law has come so late before the MPs. When it is known that some first applicable version of this law came before the competent assembly committees just a month and a few days ago, the Socialists once again confirmed that the DOS government had problems with the economy and the establishment of the last hole in the play. The government is returning to the problem of getting better only when it needs it as political marketing. It is clear, fellow MPs, that any reasonable and responsible government, other than this DOS, would have proposed such a law to the Serbian Parliament in the first months of its rule. Unfortunately, this government, ensued and blinded above all by negative political goals, is trying to prove that in the previous regime, everything, however, was bad, completely neglected by the economy and focused in a completely different direction. Without real economic orientation, the government changed good and applicable laws, which allowed normal and successful privatisation, with minimal government support. To mention only the Law on Privatisation -- first of all, you remember well, the government proposed to the Serbian Parliament to abolish the main provisions of this law, then a new law on privatisation was written for a very long time, but it had to be adopted in this House of Telex by voting from Thessaloniki. Thus, the government completely halted existing economic flows. Based on this proposal for a law on financial lease, the government of Mr. Zivkovic is still not fully determined to turn to all strengths and knowledge to create a total legal mile in which the economy will wave by creating new values and new products. When it is known that the Serbian economy, and in particular the processing industry (even the one that was built or renovated in the far 90s), was first brought to a major lag behind the world and Europe, and then by criminal bombing to a significant extent, the best, destroyed, then the question arises why the legal creation of conditions for faster renewal and reconstruction of processing industrial capacities began so late. The excuses that were heard from the government from the beginning, that it did not want to interfere in the attraction, but only to create a favourable environment, were obviously just an excuse for inability to offer adequate solutions. When I'm on the ground of the government's meddling and non-mixing in the economy, let me just mention the textile industry. Until the arrival of DOS to power, this industrial branch as the most widespread in the Jablanic district, with minimal government support, worked with significant capacities and fed 9,000 workers and their families. The Socialist government has allowed them all to wear uniforms of wooded or Serbian staffs, and police, and customs officers, and all security services. Due to this non-mixing, the DOS Government has made it almost completely closed its factories by coming textiles, and that all uniform suits are still sewn, but now from import stalls, which it obtains, and who else would, to the organized part of the DOS lobby. Therefore, respected fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group has a big dilemma ahead of it, at what speed today, due to too long delay, this financial lease law will indeed have a positive impact on correcting the catastrophic state of production. We believe that the practical application of this law, taking into account our industry's preparedness for new investment processes, I would say, even by investing in the narrow throats of production, can only start before the end of this year. This is not a flat rate based on any reason, but because it is known that the decline in Serbia's production in the first quarter of 2003 was 5%, that production decreased by 6.4% in March, and that we have a steady decline in earnings that went even to 12.3% in March. I guess that clearly points to the industry's inability to move quickly into the lysing process. This law will probably also have some positive impact on the stunning bad external trade balance, which was, you remember, over four billion dollars, but again it is the time of the application of this law. However, when it is known that the country's duties continue to increase rapidly and that the total imports of equipment barely exceed 10%, some encouraging movements will be created in the perspective, but which of us will welcome from the economy is a very serious issue. Dear Ministers, let us, with all the problems we have regarding new and necessary equipment, in the absence of bank loans and bank funds, however, based on the experience that I have as a longtime businessman with operational leases, has a serious suspicion that these legal solutions and financial leases, which will be overwhelming, will be much more expensive. The interest and presence of intermediaries in this business, which charges its services, will significantly increase the price of the lease. If the authorities of this country force only financial licking themselves, it will again slow the restoration of our economy due to the price. Let me say one more thing. It seems that this legal proposal means calculating depreciation should be quite precisely defined as time depreciation and does not leave the possibility of functional depreciation. It is certain that this part can be amended, of course, if there is a good will of the promoter. To all who have had practical problems with equipment manufacturers, as leasers, it is clear that this way the regulated relationship, in which a leaser can also be responsible for the relationship with the supplier, will make the equipment problems almost insolvent. That's why I expect this problem to be dealt with legally in the most direct way, too. that only the supplier of the equipment is responsible for the lack of the object of the lising. Consider only large industrial capacities, such as refineries, large factories. And quite finally, because of the many unforeseen circumstances in payment traffic, even for formal reasons, there may be a delay in paying off the first installment of the lising war, I think it is necessary to pay off the first installment of the lising wars, as well as the rest of the wars, for a reasonable period of 15, 30 or 45 days and for it to be introduced into the law. You know what kind of problems we have when it comes to dealing with banks and that it's necessary to get into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29429	The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic. National MP Zeljko Tomic by agreement changed the order with the MP, Petro Cvetkovic. He's not here. ) The word has the next registered speaker, MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29430	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, common to these two laws is that both should be one of the essential instruments for economic development and for increasing the living standard of the population. Everything else is different, and that's why it didn't make sense for this principle debate to come together, but well, that's the will of the congregation's majority. As far as the first law goes, I can tell him that he's good, first of all because the state and the government don't show up in the tracks. It's a clean relationship between the donor, the leaser and the equipment delivery guy. Normally, technically, it can be done. It is essential to enable the acquisition of modern equipment without own resources and credit lines, the protection of the leaser, the possibility of temporary use of equipment, the increase of competition in the financial services market. It's all nice. So, this law is pretty good, according to my assessment. As far as double taxation is concerned, the next value tax will be settled, and this law will not be revived until 2004, until the lising register is formed, most likely, so it will be bridged. But, above this law, like all others, there remains a shadow of the illegality of this congregation's majority, and I have the right to speak about it because more than 30% of the mandate has been usurped into New Serbia, and you know how. Therefore, all the laws we adopt are questionable. As for the second law, we won't agree at all, we voted against the concession law last time, and I've widely explained the facts for which we pleaded against that law. What is essential, however, Mr. Minister on the essential differences between these two proposals did not say anything here. However, it is not snowing to cover the hill, today on the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad we heard the reason, which is that the AP is getting, by adopting Mr. Bojan Kostreš's amendments by the government, not 5%, but 30%. So, the small door has already been entered by 30%, you know, even though the Committee has rejected the amendment, but the government has adopted it. What does this mean now? That we will divide Serbian citizens into first-class citizens and second-class citizens. Once again, citizens of the province are singled out into the privileged, and the rest of Serbia, which I guarantee all potential concessions, and that is worth only 5%. What's the lesson, what are we supposed to do, rip the rest of Serbia into the province to get that 30%. That is why New Serbia will again vote against this law, which is why it is even worse than the previous one. Unfortunately, the people of Vojvodina probably won't see any of this, but we're just creating a new power centre, and before the Novi Sad, representatives of municipalities will kneel for privileges like the rest of us kneel before Belgrade. Therefore, we do not see decentralisation in this law, nor that there are 5%, how long it takes for us to remain from these developmental resources, but we do not see any need to strengthen the duchy oligarchy. That's why we're voting against the law. Today, however, I am the only one who has supported an amendment to the Soviet Union, which is an amendment to Article 28(3) where they have demanded that 20% be singled out for local self-government; it means, better for all 20% than to divide citizens into two groups. This is how it stays, the minister said it won't be big funds, there'll be big funds when all our resources come to the concession list, and here I was talking about Lake Vlassin, and so on, there'll be some funds again. Unfortunately, the government of Serbia, or the state of Serbia, has, since it has a bulky state apparatus, irrational, sterile, and this is seen in every monthly drop in production that is evident. Imagine what we'll only have now when agricultural production cancels. That is why I repeat: we in New Serbia will support the Financial Lising Act, regardless of the legitimacy of the Assembly, this second normally does not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29431	The word has a minister in the Serbian government, Mr Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29432	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not waste your time or my time in any great clarifications. The whole debate was mainly about some issues that are evidently due to a different notion of what financial leases are, or what is operational skating, and somewhere clearly poor reading of the law and thereby incorrect interpretation or even ignoring certain members who define certain positions, especially in financial lysing, and thus neglecting what is written in the law. I'll just comment on a few things, I haven't seen my DSS colleagues talking about their concession law, but I'm still going to do a little comment on that. There were some concrete questions, and I'll try and say something about them. I think it's important that I repeat that financial leases have serious differences in terms of the concept of operating leases and the explanation is what this is about. I would like to remind my fellow Members that the business of financial leases and the financial lease agreement includes items which are not governed by the Law on Lising Relations and that outside these classical forms of legal transactions defined by the Law on Lising there are also a number of segments: status - economic, means procedural - legal character, accounting, tax, customs, which definitely extends this area in a way that simply requires a solution to the regulatory type of one law that introduces legal certainty in business traffic. I'm going to have to answer some specific remarks, just so it doesn't stay unarranged and unexplained. When a lysing recipient eventually fails, if it is a bankruptcy, it is very logical that if a leaser has property over that subject (Article 10 and Article 15, I suggest you look at it, it is the basic thing that is related to the so-called exclusive right) means, when a lysing recipient goes into bankruptcy, that it is exempt from bankruptcy and that it is the property of a lysing provider. So, in these segments, I call on you, respecting other comments, that we still adhere to some letter of law that indicates how to regulate what is defined by some basic concepts of legal norms. The question about the problem of double taxation - so it's about the Ministry of Finance offering in its solutions, and for now it's a variant of paying taxes on the marketing services of the lising wars, for the remuneration of the lising in the form of war; that at the moment when financial lease is interrupted and when it's wanted to buy eventually from the leaser what is the subject of the lising, then the tax on the traffic of goods is paid, and that there's no tax on the sales of goods at the time when the leaser buys from the delivery service provider. So that's how this problem of double taxation is avoided, until the value added tax law is passed, which is January next year, when the whole matter will be regulated in the most functional way. The application of the law - the law is applied by adopting and publishing in "The Official Messenger", means, by standard procedure; the only thing that has a moment of delay refers to members who define the functioning of the register, because it is intended that the registration law defines this area and that, possibly, some ideas that exist on both the lease and the supply and registration of companies are formulated in a way that will ensure that the lising register works as well. When it comes to the famous issue of whether financial licking will bring more expensive business to Serbia, so if it brings more expensive business, no one will use it. Well, nobody's so limited that they're thinking, if there's a different source of funding and if its licking is more expensive, they're using licking. In the conditions that will be given for the use of the lising object and if the idea of creating a multitude of people who will be dealing with the losing, it is certain that it is one element of competition that will surely press those conditions that are related to the use of this process. You know, it doesn't happen very often, and I allow myself to comment on it, because I use concrete examples, that often different types of argument is used for the same question, so one question is used with arguments that are positive, and then counterarguments define the same question, and I have to admit, somewhere it loses a thread of communication, but that's probably my problem, too. As far as concessions are concerned, I have to comment on what my DSS colleague commented about the law that the DSS has prepared, the concession law, normally, not commenting on that law, and try in a comparable version to say what it is that I think are the comparative advantages of this law. First, the concession law defines the good in the general application that is in the possession of the Republic. It is the subject of this law, not all good in general use, because according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia good in general use can also be in private property, which is not the subject of regulation, because then concessions would have to regulate those goods that are not in their own republic, or good private property, which is a great nonsensical. Secondly, it is a very complicated question where the jurisdiction to grant concessions in today's system, when it comes to the omnibus law, where there is simply no jurisdiction to grant concessions by an autonomous province. The bill is in the spirit of valid constitutional solutions, and we have just predicted that the concessionary is a state, with the whole logic of the implementation of the concession act, which includes the participation of local self-government and the participation of the autonomous province, but not that the autonomous province is a concession, at least not while these solutions are in place. It is normal that, until the issues of the constitution are resolved, there is such a situation; it is true that the amendment of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform – has been accepted, and I am not sure if I have fully caught the argument. On the one hand, there is an argument that there is no point in that, and on the other hand, much will suffer the other part of Serbia. I think there's something that's a certain political reality. On the other hand, there is something that any government in the world would do and how to force, if it had more opportunities to isolate from the budgets to finance infrastructure development. I don't believe there are any members of the Serbian government who wouldn't support it. And so there are a lot of conversations about how to single out as much as possible for the development of economy and infrastructure, but in conditions where budgets are what they are, and that's with that social product that came to this level after X years, when there are payments on those grounds that have been accumulated in decades behind us, when the internal debt is on the wallpaper, when the external debt is on the wallpaper, when there are serious commitments to the budget for the payment of what this government has accumulated under its obligations, when there are rights for those who and how they have earned the rights (retirers, health care and education), then there are no two cookies that can be shared, but the question is how to really optimise that expenditure side. For this reason, it is evident that any government that comes to this place and how it prefers that, at some point in time, when there are more funds, this will make it available for infrastructure development, possibly for some capital investments that the state could participate in financing, etc. It'll be the intensity of this government. I am sure that, independently of the percentage foreseen for the autonomous province for concession fees, budget planning policy and the separation of possible funds for the financing of infrastructure and other parts of Serbia, this will essentially be no problem and will depend on the dynamics of the development of the economy. Just a few more comments. I personally prefer the solutions of this concession law compared to the DSS proposal, which does not allow the agency to decide on the distribution of concession revenues from case to case, by means of distribution between the Republic, the Autonomous Province and local self-government. I don't think it's a good solution to bring in a lot of discretion, potential abuses. I think the Institute of Public tender is better than the agency to define from case to case how public competition will be conducted. Given that this position is also not a debate on the comparative proposal of one law and another, but we have a law on concessions proposed by the Serbian Government, I think that the solutions offered are authoritative enough in a way that will surely justify that what the principles laid down in the concession law are respected by the envisaged instruments for the implementation of these principles. In the end, I really thank you, personally and on behalf of my team present here, for truly correct communication on these duchessones. For the concession law, I've already had a chance to hear the argument and I haven't heard anything new, and you haven't heard much newer than me. As far as the Lising Act is concerned, I am pleased to recognize that these are still laws that can represent improving the legislative environment for increasing capital investment and improving the economic environment. All the political groups that have submitted the amendments, regardless of whether they are adopted or not, I really thank you personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29433	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the opening of the principled search, I ask if the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29434	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, allow me, at the end of this debate, to make a few more views of the SPS on the subject of two important laws, on concessions and on financial leases. I'm one of those people who's had some history with the lollipop, though, with what's-his-name here, about 15 or 16 years ago. It is good that we will pass such a law, but we do not have any special changes in relation to some practical life in this sphere, but rather the need to regulate one area by law and thus give assurance to foreign partners above all that we should do in this business with our and our domestic companies. There are a few things I think the minister should do, along with the finance minister, to clarify the details. He tried to answer earlier, and I admit I didn't understand until the end, what would be the basis for the service tax. If I understand correctly, it will be the basis of the height of war or compensation. You have a fee, simply put, capital and interest. The interest is already something else, and I think it's kind of fine, because we could have big problems with the way we tax. The second question that needs to be clarified, I'm a little bit on the technical ground, concerns accounting law. What treatment is covered by the fees agreed with the supplier, i.e. with the leaser for a period of, say, 36 months and each month the corresponding obligation contained in the fee and interest shall be paid. Is that the cost of doing business for the company or not? Experiences from the operating lease show that we had a lot of doubts, so one financial control felt that the full amount of your obligation to the leaser was a cost in business, and the others excluded interest, so they only treated it as a cost in business, and in particular they accounted for depreciation on the value of the assets that were borrowed. This is important because all of this affects the ultimate tax balance and the tax on profits. The third aspect, which is also important, is the customs aspect. The operational licking involved, at least so much as the customs interpretation, that any war was the basis for customs clearance at the appropriate customs rates and according to the customs nomenclature which was in force at that time. What's going to be the basis for customs is not completely clear, although this law doesn't have to regulate it to the end of the matter, but it is important from the point of view of practical application in life, because we don't care when we pay customs, or what it's going to be, or what it's going to be. Whether it will be the base of only the depreciation that is projected as a major part of the amount of compensation for the use of a certain asset in the financial lease or will be increased by interest, it also doesn't matter. So, I point out these several technical issues that should also be considered by some sublegal act, by a government regulation or by a regulation to explain to future users the funds of that financial lease. With regard to financial leases, the following should be said: it seems to me that there was a more rational solution to the contract being signed between the three entities that are in this financial lease law. So, between the leaser, the recipient, but also the supplier; that could be one legal document, one act signed by three parties, which are objectively involved in this business. This may help to avoid some misunderstandings, arising from certain responsibilities, especially material disadvantages, means of use in the losin recipient. In theory, it can happen, and in practice in life, that whoever is the recipient of the lising at any time at the time of the contract does not know who is the supplier or supplier at that time, although it is the possibility that whoever wants to take the equipment in the licking, that the manufacturer's name, that the appropriate references of the equipment to be taken, and then that according to that requirement, the leaser contracts that job with the lysing provider. If I understand the problem to the end, the essence of this is that there is a company in the world or in a country that will finance the production of appropriate equipment, technology, or some other object of lysing and that someone who needs it is unable to secure some other kind of financing of the supply of that equipment. It seems a little shy in this law is given the possibility, or the right to definitely buy a lollipop object by whoever is using that licking. The operational licking actually meant that the last war, 36th or 106th, would nevertheless be the price at which he would be entitled to buy the equipment he owned during that period. We now have the possibility that whoever uses the equipment in the lysing or the person who gives it to him in the lysing, so the recipient and the donor can conclude a contract on the fixed purchase of equipment that is in the lysing, but there is no obligation for the lysing provider to sell to whoever is in fact through these fees, which also contain interest, de facto, paid off that equipment. This created a bit of a problem in practice and in life, because it may happen that whoever gave me the equipment on the lease, whom I paid out of 100,000 euros of 99,900 euros, and the remaining value is 100 euros, decides not to sell me that equipment, but to find someone else who, under similar or same conditions, will extend the licking on that equipment, and it is essentially amortised by the user who was paid. There are some things that must be achieved, and I think that through these amendments that we have proposed, they can simply eliminate these possible problems in practice. When the amendments are made, I might be able to say a few more things about it, and now I would take these two or three minutes to say a few sentences about the concession law. So it's not a problem what text of the concession law we're considering today. I think he's basically correct, but it seems like a problem -- why? Here are two and a half years already running and we don't have any serious jobs in the area, and there is a special need for direct foreign investment today, which also through this concession law should be given a special stimulation or a special opportunity to show themselves in the coming time. Take this drought across the country, especially in Vojvodina, which is at the level of a natural disaster. However, in one part of the law, water supply facilities, i.e. irrigation and disposal may be the subject of concession, but if I were to be the Minister of Agriculture, including this Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, then I would insist that these partners first find themselves who will build a irrigation system, for example in Vojvodina or a system of disposal under these provisions of the concession laws, and thus solve many problems in the long term, so that I do not now explain which ones. Of course, it is very important to ensure, first of all, that those partners who will come to have an interest in building suitable facilities, that they use the same facilities for up to 30 years and then return them to use. When we achieve that, then we will have these improvements, which are mentioned here, in the areas of traffic, infrastructure, railways, etc. Because two billion direct investments planned in this country over the next three years, including the fourth year and 2002, are too small a sum of funds, around400-600. $300,000 a year, so that we can meet this growing needs in the area of infrastructure and in all other areas treated in the concession law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29435	The word has been issued by MP Dejan Mihajlov, the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, another announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29436	Here we had the opportunity to hear a distorted comparative analysis of two bill proposals and certainly the minister sought to make one bad law compared to one good law so turned (which is no wonder when MPs do not have this other law) and to display this law as better. The remarks we have made are not answered, and that is - what about forests, are the forests subject to concession or forest should be excluded from concession and whether the forests are the natural wealth that we need to be served for sale, more specifically whether the hunting grounds are natural wealth which some of the ministers will sell out while this is still little in power or that concessions for a longer period of time? Is that what we're talking about here and is that how you take care of the environment and the natural habitat? Whether or not it will sell out will be seen, but it is not excluded from the concession process. We continue to believe that the concession agency is a much better-resolved service that will be formed with each ministry, an agency that will have insight, control, conduct procedures and submit reports. Who will the ministry be reporting to? The Ministry and the Government. The Agency is obliged to report to the Assembly. It is precisely why the agency that has to be responsible for this so that this assembly has insight into what concessions are doing, not that there are some services at the ministry that will report to the ministry and the government. That's not gonna happen. It's a completely closed, non-transparent model where the concession process should probably serve political trade. We still believe that agencies are the right and only possible solution and that the concession register is something that must exist. The concession register would not be some ordinary record, but a register which would necessarily include all concessions and where the competent ministry and government would exercise control over concessions. I just mentioned that concessions, for example from the domain of local self-government, to some scarce resources, such as water, water, water, are given without any control, so you get into a situation where the water line in an entire region is not controlled by the state, but by the one who took the concession. Such attempts were so far under the old Law on concessions after October 5th, where some foreign companies wanted to take a water supply concession for the entire region. In particular, in southern Banat, there was a proposal by one of the companies to take a concession on water and supply the region with water for 20 years, where the price of water would be far higher than this and where the state would have no interference. Who's guaranteed it won't come, because there are no built control systems here. Of course, there's no guarantee of that. You're not in need of guarantees, because you might be selling something out in the last year, and that's all you've got left. We continue to believe that the concession and concession process should be decentralised to the AP level and other levels of territorial decentralisation. Whether it's local self-government and later regionalization or some other form, but we think it should be done. From their domain in the jurisdiction of the decentralised form of local self-government and each other must be competent to grant concessions, of course, under strict and strict control of the Agency. It's something that should lead us, if we're already talking about financial decentralisation, then that's what needs to be done. What is also important to highlight and what we talked about, is that regardless of the law on the lising that explains or further regulates certain provisions that are regulated by the bond law and this kind of law. There's no good law that can replace bad economic policy. That's why we're talking about an environment that doesn't exist, an environment that doesn't exist. We have the final example of the concession given for the Belgrade highway - Novi Sad. The concession was won by the Austrian firm Alpina, but it has subcontractors, which are our companies, so it's by the trucks we see every day on the site, which are MK comeca trucks, who got the concession and how these concessions are given and who are subcontractors. How are they hired? Just walk down the road to Novi Sad and you'll see which trucks work on the construction site. Is that the way we want to give concessions -- no control, no transparency, no nothing we talk about. The minister mentioned the possibility of abuse in our concession system. Obviously, abuse is still a relative category, which depends on individuals and the whole system, which does not depend solely on concession laws. It depends on the whole system of others and the ability of institutions to deal with the law, to deal with corruption. Our proposal for a concession law has been analysed and made in accordance with the laws of the former Yugoslav states and states of the former eastern bloc. It is also compared to foreign concession laws. He is one whole and closed system of this kind of control. The system as proposed by the government is possible, but we believe that the system we propose is better. We made remarks. We can also organise a debate based on comparative analyses of both bill proposals, so let's see which bill is better, analyze all existing solutions. We simply think that this control that has been proposed by our law is better. I would ask the question, of course not to the minister, since it is not his responsibility, what is the fate of the acts he has signed in the capacity of the minister from the period of the constitution of this government to the swearing of the oath, since the citizen elected as minister until he takes the oath is not a minister, but a citizen. What is the fate of those acts he signed? On whom is it a responsibility that the minister has not taken an oath before this assembly before, but that we have waited almost two months for? Whether it will have consequences for the acts he signed, because, strictly formally, citizens cannot as a minister sign it. Let's remind ourselves: he, under the Government Act, becomes a minister only when he takes the oath and signs the oath and then all the conditions are obtained to perform that function. So, he may have been in the position of a citizen to go to negotiations when it was just signing, so that would endanger the fate of the acts he signed in that capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29437	The word is made by Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29438	I had no intention of reporting again, but I was inspired by Mr. Michael; because it's probably a good example of democracy -- when reading the same books, the same models, and it comes to different conclusions about how a particular model of the law might look. Since we've been reading this about the region, and we've been reading what are the best examples, but I have to admit that somehow we've taken some solutions from those same laws, to compare a little bit of what we've been reading. First, once again, the question of the forest. It is said that the law sets out examples of what may be the subject of concession according to the variant of the dissuasive character and the ex-employs of caus. You went to the exclusion variant. It's not just the use of the forest, it's the maintenance of the forest; giving in a concession means that somewhere where you don't have investments you want to keep the quality of what's in your system. So the concession doesn't just mean that you took and destroyed the forest park somewhere, but on the contrary, that you encase it and keep it. That was the point we were handling. So it can be the subject of a concession, but we can also be sure of what you've done as an example of the exclusion of the forest, that it's not the subject of a concession, because it's exactly that category of dispositive character. As far as the agency is concerned, we wanted to bypass it in this system precisely because training this agency to perform this function implies a crucial relyance either on experts or the resolution ministries that need to ensure that whoever is in the agency makes a certain decision on whether or not it is a matter of concern to the concession. We thought it was a double administration and that people didn't need to be organised into the agency just for the sake of double administration. I said, concession jobs are part of an engagement of another agency that exists, for foreign investment and promotion of exports; and there will also be a guide for concessions, where everyone will be able to recognise logic and procedure. It's a sublegal act, so it's a model contract. It's just that the whole process is going to be presented so that everyone knows how it happens. I have to mention two inaccuracies, although I respect different opinions. First, the concession law in Article 24 provides for a concession register. So, the unique concession register that just has all the elements that you're talking about, except it's not about the agency, it's about the ministry running the finance business. Secondly, and with that end, no concession in the last few months has been given, including the Belgrade highway - Novi Sad. It's not a concession. It is simple to use state funds to finance the way of Belgrade -- Novi Sad, given the bad legacy, when a concession was given before 2000 and how we had problems. So it's not about the concession. Clear, I had a need to correct some inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29439	If no one answers the word anymore, I conclude a joint principled search on the draft law on financial leases and a proposal for a concession law. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Financial Lysing (specificities) You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Radoslav Vesenović, together Petar Petrović, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukić, Zoran Krasić, Slobodan Janjic, Veroljub Arsic, Stevan Kesejić, Dragan Ljubojević, Milorad Mirčić, Milovan Radovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Dragoljub Stamenković, Goran Cvetanović, Vitomir Plužarić, Petar Jožić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Radovljan Joković, Lazar Marjanski, Ljubomir Kragović, Dragan Pavlovic, Dragan Pavlović and Dragan Čolić, Natasaša Jovan Žović and Žović; Branislav Žović Žović, Radan Jovanovic Jović and Miodrag Stamenković; Jovan Todorov Cvetović; Hranislav Cvetić and Jovan Jobić Žorić Žović and Žović Žović Žović Žović and Žović Žović Žović Žović. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. The government's report is being multiplied. The word has the People's Messenger Siniša Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29440	Dear Mrs Comic, honourable fellow Members, on the basis of Article 137. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I suggest that the debate in particular lasts up to three minutes and before the vote please establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29441	I ask the MPs to insert their cards to determine the quorum. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I would ask the MPs to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning the respect of this institution. This involves personal behavior as an attitude that shows respect for each of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has carried out a thorough review of the Financial Lising Law proposal as well, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The title above the member and article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29442	The first two amendments, to Articles 1 and 2, are probably the most significant amendments to this law. I would ask a representative of the Government to listen to what I am about to say about the amendment to Article 1. I would ask you not to make a mistake, given that you have just listened to comparisons between a financial lease contract and a lease contract that has been known so far in our practice. That's two different ideas. If you're not making that difference, we're free to pass this law. This law is passed primarily because of those who are supposed to be leasers. Why? Because they have free resources and offer financial services. Who are they? These can be banks registered for these jobs, and they can be all those faces, legal persons with purses and bows, who have the means and they need to be regulated by this law, so that no abuse occurs in the application of the relevant provisions. That's why we follow your logic. We don't support these amendments. We have a completely different concept of financial lease law. You have tried to give a broader interpretation of this, but unfortunately you have narrowed down the notion of financial lysing, and you will see this in the following amendments to the members of this bill, where you have found damage to the leasers, regardless of the provisions of Article 30 and some of the provisions of this bill. This applies to the situation when the agreed duration of the financial lease ceases. You may have noticed, in our amendments, we particularly insist that the contract be titled - a financial lease contract, in order to make a clear difference from those so-called. functional and ordinary lysing jobs. In this amendment, we say that Article 1 regulates the subject matter of the law. If you are already using the term - law enforcement, then it is possible that you have put these provisions into the Law on Bond Relations, but you have drawn this matter from the Law on Bond Relations and given them specific meaning and character. So you don't rule the terms. Next, in the first sentence of the first article, you say it's a financial lease business. The terms of the jargon must not be used in a law defining the legal relationship between individual persons. You people who participate in this legal relationship are called entities. They're not entities, they're participants in a contractual relationship. This later draws a completely wrong and restrictive approach to the notion of financial lease. It's a good thing you're keeping two contracts in Article 2 and you didn't fall for it to be a tripartite contract. This should be divided into two special contracts -- a delivery contract and a financial lease agreement. First of all, we're interested in the financial lease agreement. We are not interested in this law contract as the leaser became the owner of equipment, vehicles or facilities. Obviously, you haven't seriously read our amendments. You tried to do something with this bill, and you stopped halfway, not because of customs, tax or accounting problems. These problems can occur in the recipient of the classic lease, but the recipient in the financial lease business has no problems because he owns equipment, vehicles, the lising facility. We need to define him not to be the source of any interference. Furthermore, if you look at your provisions on the termination of the financial lease agreement, you have not defined which is the fate of the funds, the subject matter of the lease. I'll remind you that in our tax regulations there is a tax on income from the issue of equipment and mobile things to rent. That's how you pushed a financial leaser into something called a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29443	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 2. The title above the member and Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29444	Minister, with this amendment, we're trying to help you define the concept of financial lysing. We said, "Let that be the definition of financial lysing." So it's not a job, it's something called a legal relationship. That's one thing. The second thing, if you read our amendment, you'll see that we've thrown out everything in your proposal that can create confusion with the donor, and with the recipient, and with the delivery guy, I have to tell you, both at the court and whoever runs the register. With your Article 2 formulation, you have not properly defined financial leases, but unnecessaryly, in the context of what you call a delivery contract, you have inserted some of the things that burden the text. We've cleared that text and shown that it's a contract that gives the leaser the right to property. What makes him entitled to property? Because he found interest in this equipment, that vehicle is in the specification and that it represents the interest of the leaser. He concludes the delivery contract to conclude a financial lease agreement. By the logic of things, what's defined in Article 2 follows and what's called a pre-negotiation. If that were not the case, then these two contracts would not have an organic connection and it could happen that the leaser enters into negotiations with a possible leaser and orders some equipment without the conclusion of a financial lease contract, that this order be made with the supplier, this one not to be satisfied, or another reason arises and complete co-production is broken down. That's why we've cleared this member of those things that are unnecessary and that can create confusion. I especially point out, in the financial lease business, as you call it, the leaser is the one who has the means. He becomes the owner of one contract and wants to capitalize on the subject of the lising. That's normal. He thus realized that he needed to enrich his capital and his assets. He doesn't want to get dirty, he wants a clean job. He came in a position to make money and make a lot more money than he did at the bank. It's perfectly normal. That's a confession to make. This should be arranged so that the relationship between these three sides is settled, so that there are no possible disputes. You're unnecessary, because you don't understand, or it's a bad translation, or I don't know what, you've burdened the whole legal relationship with the relationship between the leaser and the delivery guy. The assumption of closing a financial lease contract is that the leaser owns the thing. The owner is responsible for the shortcomings. The owner is responsible for everything. The fact that he provided equipment according to the specification and at the request of the recipient does not mean anything from the supplier's point of view, since the supplier is in a special contractual relationship with the leaser. I must tell you, your definition is contrary to the principles you are referring to and on which this law is based, as you stated in your explanation. If you want to inhale the real power of one contract, that the act which binds the parties and that it is the law for them, then with which wrong definition of the financial lease contract you put in several provisions in the legal relationship between the recipient and the supplier of the equipment, which do not have any concluded contract. Take care, because starting with this definition of Article 2 you will be able to resolve the problems that are coming to you, as far as sales, customs and accounting taxes are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29445	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29446	I have no intention of plowing. Just a sentence, that the definition of the business of the financial lease is based on the Convention on International Financial Lising, signed by 37 states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-13-0.u29447	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) For today we are completing the work and continuing the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours by amendment to Article 2, which were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Dusan Cvetkovic. Thank you.
