ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33658	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have asked for a replica of the last day of last week's session for the presentation of Mr Peter Cvetkovic, who has presented a whole series of offensive, sometimes vulgar allegations about fellow MPs from other MPs' clubs, which is inappropriate for both the National Assembly institution and all parliamentary groups, both opposition and positional. The continuation of Mr Cvetkovic's presentation was non-gentlemenic, non-democratic, incorrect procedure of DSS MPs and SRS MPs, who criticised, all day long, which is completely legitimate and natural, given the agenda point, National Assembly President Natasa Micic. However, when Ms. Micic came to the floor after listening to the criticism all day, I note that the DSS parliamentary group even asked for the session to be interrupted around noon so that Mrs. Micic would come to the hall, it is essential that the democratic right of the one who has been nominated to respond to those criticisms. However, DSS and SRS MPs pulled out their cards and did not allow the National Assembly president to answer what she patiently listened to as a criticism all day and, often, unargumented allegations by fellow MPs. My colleague Cvetkovic, who called me, read a stenogram and read a stenogram from past sessions stalled this debate without any need. We've often listened to criticism from DSS's ranks that the debate shouldn't be too long. However, Mr. Cvetkovic has just denied his behaviour. I ask the DSS parliamentary group to withdraw their proposal to discuss the mistrust of the government of the Republic of Serbia, because we already have one proposal submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. Now, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to withdraw that third item from the agenda only by withdrawing it. We will have time, both representatives of the opposition and representatives of the government, we will all have the opportunity to talk about the government. In parliamentary practice and in parliamentary experience there is no moment, there is no fact that at the same time there are two identical points, two identical proposals by two different proposings. The existence of this third point represents a clear delay in the debate, completely unnecessary. The proposal already exists. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted the proposal first. We are building up and automatically reject any responsibility for delaying the debate unless the Democratic Party of Serbia withdraws its proposal. So, the Democratic Party of Serbia, it is obvious, with its proposal to support the Serbian Radical Party's proposal, it is absolutely pointless that we discuss the same issue twice and that we have two agenda points, which is also the cost of the National Assembly, the loss of huge budget funds and a huge delay in the debate on government confidence. I think we are all in the political interest, if the DSS thinks about it, they will see that they are in the political interest too, that the debate on the government is taking place as short as possible and that this Assembly becomes known about the government's trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33659	Replication rights are set by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. After that, the right to replica has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33660	You are talking about the right of Natasha Micic to speak before this assembly. Where is she now? There's another debate going on without her presence, and you're talking about her right to a replica. (Applause for the approval of a number of MPs in the O.R.) Why isn't he here to respond to the replica now? What does that look like? You're misleading the public, most wirelessly, as it has been in your former manner. If we're talking about stalling the debate, gather what hours we've worked in the last two weeks. The first week we didn't work on Tuesday and Wednesday because, in their cabinets, wise heads sat down and made decisions about how, what and where Serbia would go. We only worked on Thursday, which was very short. We worked two days last week. As the situation looks now, we'll only work today, and tomorrow we won't work. On a proposal by the Democratic Party of Serbia to work both Monday and Friday, all five working days a week, you did not vote, you were abstentioned. Last week, Thursday, when there was no quorum to discuss, your MPs came out. Out of the DOS - Reform MPs, there are 10 MPs left from a strong push for reform in the hall. Is that all the support your reforms have in this assembly? Is that how you want to implement the reforms? It's simple, you don't have a majority and you're asking to postpone any debate. Now I see you're asking to postpone the vote on Natasha Micic. She's convinced of the support she has, don't be afraid of everything, don't be afraid to argue. If that's the case, let's vote on it today. I suggest we continue our work today, and then tomorrow we can work on some other points of the agenda, for example, with a debate about the government's trust. As for this point - the debate on the trust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - will not work tomorrow either. You're just making up reasons not to work, not today, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, so I don't know what time this is, until you realize you don't have a majority and you don't have enough to implement your policy in this assembly. If that's not clear to you, I'm telling you right now, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, you don't have a majority. The citizens don't support you. You have no right to usurp a place in this congregation. You did not implement the Constitutional Court decision, because if it had already been the Serbian government, it would already have been the opposition group and we would have gone to the elections. You don't have a majority. That's what I just told you, if you didn't know it by now. Call the election. You say you're not afraid of choices, that citizens understand and love what you do, that they absolutely support you in it. If that's what you're convinced of, call the election. You talk about choices all the time and you never call them. So does Natasa Micic. He says he's not running away from his responsibility and from the debate, and she hasn't spent 50% of the time, how long this debate takes, in this room to hear objections and answer them. He thinks he can, whenever he comes, at 5:00 and 50 minutes or at 6:00, without an MP who supports her, speak. He can't do that. There are MPs who support her and have them give her a quorum at 5:00 and 50 minutes, if she thinks she's speaking in that prime time, without being able to answer her. I don't think it's any kind of obstruction, on the contrary. Let's work every day. Let us vote today on Natasa Micic and therefore resolve all the dilemmas that exist here, if you think you have a majority, don't run away from the vote. [[(Applause) A few MPs in the O.R.)]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33661	The word has a national MP, Gordana Pop-Lazić, proposing agenda points, the right to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33662	It is precisely, ladies and gentlemen, without the need to delay the debate and work of today's National Assembly session, that I must say that first as a proposing representative, I have used a minimum of time to explain the proposal. I will remind you that my opening statement lasted 57 minutes, that after that, perhaps two or three times I addressed the MPs very briefly and specifically, that the parliamentary groups had mostly used their time and that the remaining time of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform and that was the reason for us to propose an extension of work on Thursday; and on Thursday we were able to complete this session, that DOS MPs had not left Parliament and brought down the quorum below 126, so we could not vote. (Employee, from the city: You are the promoters, secure the quorum. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33663	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive the speaker who speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33664	Of course, the complaint was addressed to Ms. Micic which is not here, because it is much easier to talk about someone when he is present, when he has the opportunity to come out and respond and to defend himself against the arguments that we refer to as a contribution to our proposal to resolve the president of the Assembly - and neither did Mr. Pajtic very much ask himself to defend the President of the Assembly, perhaps today this badge with Micun's candidacy for the president has made him a little bit omitted, but this is in comparison with SRS candidate Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33665	National MP Dejan Mihajlov, a proposal by the Rules of Procedure, is the right of the president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33666	I propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be decided to vote on the resolution of Natasa Micic as soon as the debate is over, more specifically today, and I propose that the assembly be made known on this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33667	The People's MP, Dejan Michael, violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because he knows that the appointment of the Voting Day is an obligation and the right of the chairman and the day of the vote is not declared by the National Assembly. Is there still... MP Dejan Mihajlov adds: "Put the motion to vote". You must decide what you want, or you will call for the responsibility of National Assembly President Natasa Micic because he violates the Rules of Procedure, or you will seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure, both cannot. Any other suggestions? (Dejan Mihajlov, from the site: Replica. ) Proposal or breach of the Rules of Procedure? You have no right to a replica. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the site: New proposal. ) National MP Dejan Mihajlov seeks a replica to explain the chairman of the proposal he made by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The chairman is the only one who has the right to interrupt the speaker, the only one who has the right and the obligation to explain the decisions under the Rules of Procedure and the question of tolerance is whether he will give the MP a replica of what he has said as he holds the presidency. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, a new proposal for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33668	I believe that you have misread me, given that you have no right to interpret in the way you interpret and that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and denied the right to the National Assembly which has the right, if it can decide more than this, means, who can do more, can do less. Simply, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the right to decide when it will be discussed and when it will decide and if it is within the authority of the President of the Assembly, it means that this Assembly can make the same decision. That's one thing. Secondly, you usurp the right of the President of the Assembly to chair a session to qualify for the performances of individual MPs, which is absolutely not in your jurisdiction, because you should be equal to everyone and represent the interests of all MPs, not the political group you belong to, so that you do not have the right to qualify for the performances of any MPs, you can do so, but come down for this speaker and then argue equally with the MPs of the DSS and the MPs of the other parties, and from that place you must act equally and equally towards all MPs; since your responsibility for the conduct of this assembly is greater than what is the responsibility of any other MPs, just because you have more rights and if the Assembly can make decisions, so to say, which are greater powers than this decision, then you can make this decision and that is right, but may be more. To those who are not clear to repeat again, so here you are, and so I'm going to say again, so the Assembly can decide that today's decision is being made, and it's simply going to be an opportunity to see who's running away from responsibility, who's stalling, and who's for the issues to be solved as they come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33669	The only opportunity used by the People's Messenger is to read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not read. So, you went out the second time, and in an explanation, you repeated the proposal. The day of voting is scheduled by the chairman and the assembly does not declare itself. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, violation of the Rules of Procedure or a proposal? Infringement, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33670	Ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to point out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then, of course, I would have one proposal, I would like to refer to Rule 29 and Article 30. Rules of Procedure. Article 29 provides that when the President of the National Assembly ceases his office and lists three reasons, these are: resignation, resolution or termination of the term of office of the Members of Parliament. We have not asked Natasa Micic's resignation in the debate either, although it was logical to offer it, that would have been done by the president of the House Council if the tenants had repeatedly warned him not to do his job properly, but if she had resigned that moment she would no longer be the president of the National Assembly, that resignation would have been established and we would have had to go straight to the election of the new president. It's an indisputable fact. Her term of office has not stopped, the mandate of the MP is ongoing, and it is quite logical that at the same session after we have finished the debate we are voting on whether Natasa Micic is still the president of the National Assembly or not, as Article 30 clearly states: "The National Assembly can resolve the duties of the president of the National Assembly before the time he was elected, the procedure envisaged for the election of the National Assembly president." And that is where we would have to link that Article 30 to Article 15, which says, "The MP who received most of the votes of the MPs present has been elected to the President of the National Assembly." After that way of choosing, you know how it's usually done, that moment the president of the National Assembly is seated as chairman. I can't just imagine that after this debate, Natasa Micic, not knowing whether or not the president is, and that will prove, therefore, that you have imagined at some vote in about 15 or 20 days, sits here again and runs a session of the National Assembly as we discuss the government's trust. It's completely contradictory to the logic and logical interpretation of this Rules of Procedure. Of course, we expected that you would have this attitude, that you would go through this debate, so we'll vote when the president decides, that is, when he sets the voter's day. The fact that it has the right to set the Voting Day by breaking the Rules of Procedure for a date there around the New Year is not enough argument, since it is the Assembly that decides on the proposal of each MP, this discretionary right cannot remain the current chairman and the National Assembly must decide and make a statement on each MP's proposal. We had a proposal from Dean Michael. I repeat this proposal here - after the debate is over, I ask that all of you state whether we will approach the vote at the moment the debate is concluded and that proposal, Mrs Comic, must indeed be put to the vote if you want to stick to the Rules of Procedure. I can also suggest that we declare that today is Saturday, and you would have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33671	The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly explicitly determines voting day when it comes to the agenda point - a debate on the confidence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the agenda point - the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia in Articles 198 and 199 say, the secretary of the National Assembly will correct me, that the voting day is determined immediately after the discussion of the government's trust. To guide the messengers of the people who do not read the Rules of Procedure, those who read, understand, do not need guidance. It is my obligation for those who do not read to instruct them that we will have an obligation to set the voting day after the first point of government, the SRS applicant. It is a business obligation, which is not stated by the Assembly. It's the respect of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal issued by MP Dejan Michaelov does not have a foothold in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal, issued by Parliament Speaker Gordana Pop-Lazic, calls on the following members, article 29, says, "The President of the National Assembly ends his post before the time he was elected to: by resignation, resolution or termination of the mandate of the MP. In the event of his resignation, the President of the National Assembly shall cease his post on the day of his resignation, i.e. at the first next session of the National Assembly, if he has resigned in the time between the two sessions. The leftover is not being opened, nor is it being decided, but the end of the president's post on this basis is merely being determined." Article 30 reads: "The National Assembly may relieve the responsibilities of the President of the National Assembly before the end of the time at which it was elected, according to the procedure foreseen for the election of the President of the National Assembly". In the last application of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, it was called upon to analogise that the resolutions were carried out in the National Assembly by analogy with the choice. Article 15 speaks of the election: "A MP has been elected to the president of the National Assembly who received most of the votes of the MPs present." If two candidates have been proposed and none have received the required majority, the election process is repeated. If more than two candidates have been proposed and none has received the required majority, the vote on two candidates who received the highest number of votes will be repeated, i.e. among several candidates who received the highest equal number of votes. If the president of the National Assembly is not elected in the second round, the election procedure is repeated." Article 18, which speaks of the subject and is not mentioned in any objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, says: "Proposed candidates".... It is not a member of the 18th but a selection of the President of the National Assembly, Article 10 and Article 11. Article 18 refers to the election of the Vice-President. Article 11 says "The proposal for a candidate for president of the National Assembly is submitted to the chairman, in writing. The Chair shall deliver to the MPs all the proposals received by candidates for the President of the National Assembly. On behalf of the Proposer, the rapporteur shall have the right to explain the proposal. The proposal for a candidate for the president of the National Assembly is being opened. After the search, the chairman sets out the list of candidates for the president of the National Assembly, in the alphabetical order of the last name." So these are the provisions that are mentioned. We are under investigation and the chairman will strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and all MPs who intend to call for an infringement or for the application of the Rules of Procedure, please also, for the sake of Serbian citizens and citizens, quote the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to which they are called. Do you want the Administrative Board to plead for the injury? National MP Dejan Michael wants a session of the Administrative Committee. The People's Parliament of Gordana Popo-Lazic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33672	Mrs. Komic, you have read these provisions of the Rules of Procedure only confirmed everything I have insisted on, so I will return you to Article 1 because you are in this way violating the rights and duties of Members of Parliament. Article 1 says well that these Rules of Procedure are governed by the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised. As I say to you and to Mrs. Micic, you are not the National Assembly. Any proposal by any member of Parliament must be declared by Parliament. We're just asking you to put the proposal to the vote - is Natasa Micic the president of the National Assembly or not? I speak pure Serbian. I don't see what's unreasonable about it. That you have the right to decide when it's voting day, it can be about Christmas or St. John's, but we're not waiting for St. John's, we will now, because we've been working on it. After you say we are delaying the debate, the Assembly continues to go west in the crisis, Parliamentism is really at risk, now and on your part. So, I don't see why it hurts so much that today after an hour or two, I don't think it'll last longer, I warn you once again, you don't violate our rights, no one else can decide on our behalf! We want to vote today because it is incomprehensible that if Natasa Micic does not regain the confidence of the assembly majority today, go back to the chairman's seat and continue to lead the session, regardless of what the agenda points are. So stick to the Rules of Procedure. I understand that you as a physicist cannot enter the logical interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, nor can the Rules of Procedure regulate everything. You know, criminal law doesn't treat murder with an axe and murder with a knife or a firearm. There's some logical interpretation, of course, that's how it exists here. You did not strictly predict, concerning the president of the National Assembly, when votes must be cast, given that you have referred to those members who speak about the election of the National Assembly, it is clear that when the election is supported by the majority, the president of the National Assembly takes office. It is normal that even when the mandate ends with a settlement before the time he was elected, he must vote on it and then legitimately sit in that place where you are now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33673	Article 1 which speaks of the rights and duties of the Members of the People's Parliament means the right of the MP to receive a word in the Rules of Procedure. The duty of the chairman - to give him that word. The right of the MP to make a proposal according to the Rules of Procedure - the office of the chairman to allow the vote on the work. The first part of the fulfillment of this article was also fulfilled by the MPs who asked for the word and the chairman. The other part is not MPs. So, I quote, there will be strict application of the MPs of the National Assembly, when the obligations of the chairman are at stake. Do you want the Administrative Committee to declare it again? Yeah. ) I ask the Administrative Board to include this argument in the debate on whether there have been violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and by which member, when proposing MPs to vote on a proposal which cannot be made under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP Toma Busetic, followed by a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. National MP Zoran Micovic was called near the end of the assembly and gave a word to MP Petar Cvetkovic. National MP Petar Cvetkovic waited twice for the order due to meetings of the Administrative Committee. All MPs will have their word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, the SPS felt that this debate on the confidence of Parliament's president should take a short while. There are a lot of arguments to resolve the current president, Mrs. Micic. It is simply true that Mrs. Micic broke the Constitution, broke the law, violated the Rules of Procedure. It's all true. But it doesn't take much time. It is also true that Ms. Micic has been acting arrogantly, intolerantly the whole time since she became president of the Assembly, that she was very often an ossion, and in these exhibitions, during these two or three days, she was aggressive. All this was enough for the debate to last for a short while and for Mrs. Micic to be resolved quickly. Of course, although this is the DOS problem, Mrs. Micic was not supposed to choose for the president of the assembly. The president of the assembly is usually elected by a prominent political leader of a significant political party, someone at the top of a significant political party again, someone who is a scientific worker and politician, such as Professor Velja Simonovic. These are some criteria for selecting the president of the assembly. I don't want to insult anyone, but simply, Mrs. Micic, from an expert associate in the municipal court to the President of the Assembly! Well, she skipped out on me. I don't know how many stairs and came to chair 250 MPs. I don't know if she was president of the House Council. When someone presides over the congregation, he must have some developmental pathway. Of course, that's all your problem. It is very good that you chose Natasa Micic as Parliament Speaker, because the opposition only won her election and the government lost. I don't think it's that important, it doesn't matter, it's DOS. We believe that Mrs Micic's performance, during the meeting of this assembly, was extremely annoying for the SPS MPs. I'm just going to make up for what Mrs. Micic said during this debate. She spoke again of the defeated forces on October 5th. Today, three years later, Serbia was defeated on October 5th, all citizens were defeated, the "first" workers were defeated, as they were out of work for three years. Hundreds of thousands of people are out of work, with no hope of ever getting a job. Pensioners have been defeated, because now that DOS comes to power, the average pension is 60% of the average salary, and all prices are based on the average salary. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] The military and police were defeated because today, three years later, the most honorable officers and generals either are in The Hague or are standing by The Hague. They're defeated teachers and doctors, they're always on strike, they're looking for their rights, they're looking for a better life. Of course, there's nothing better than a better life. Students have been defeated, because other than high scholarships and reductions in exam deadlines, they got nothing. Private entrepreneurs have also been defeated, those who have voted in your favour. Today, three years after the DOS came to power, they got high taxes, taxes, company fees, taxes and fewer jobs. Finally, bank officials were defeated. You shut down all their state banks. Simply, all Serbian citizens were defeated after October 5th! Gentlemen, that's a fact. Natasa Micic says freedom came on October 5th and that we broke up on October 5th with irresponsibility. What irresponsibility does Mrs. Micic speak of and what freedom? [[Dropping out of the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33675	People's MP, I'm sorry. I ask the MPs to stop getting out of the bench and that, by respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with respect and respect, they will hear every speaker who comes out for this speaker. He has a right to do that, and I have a duty to provide it. So this is a warning to all the MPs who have been throwing away. The next step, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is to give notice. I ask that together we honor this home in which we sit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33676	Mrs. Komic, you've been using you for me for a minute. When it comes to October 5th, very quickly, perhaps in the next few months or a year, you know what will be said for October 5th? Freedom didn't come, the occupation came on October 5th. You know what else it's gonna say? It will say that the people were deceived and deceived, that DOS leaders set fire to the assembly. The Germans didn't set fire to the assembly either, and DOS leaders set the assembly on fire. Of course, it will say that the important role of all this was foreign intelligence. So I would also recommend that Mrs. Micic and all the other DOS leaders read this book. A friend of yours wrote, you've always been good with him, Tim Marshall, and the book is called "The Shadow Game." It says how much DOS money he won to bring down the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic's government. It's a big asset. For example, what the book says: "Washington gave most of the money and some ideas. Money bags have been brought into the country for years, seminars have been organised in Budapest, secret meetings in Montenegro, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Austria." Mrs. Micic and the other leaders present, why do foreigners give money? No one gives money to make Serbia better. Everyone gives money to get an occupation in Serbia, to have a kidnapping and robbery happen. It all happened during the three years of your reign. Please, who was getting all the money? The Resistance was getting money. They're often on these stage. The members of the jjc- "Otopra" have always returned, he says, "with new practical knowledge, equipment and bags full of money." And that "it's done" you printed abroad. Three million gave foreign intelligence to "it's over." Today, three years later, who's finished? He's not a Free Milosevic. Slobodan Milosevic has entered history as the greatest Serbian hero to defend the freedom of this people. Today, three years later, if you don't leave as soon as possible, Serbia is over. That's the result of all of it. Let's not talk about it anymore. No one gives money for nothing, especially Soros doesn't give money for nothing. Everything is given to rob Serbia, to commit kidnapping, so that people are left with no job. It's the result of your policy. Mrs Natasa Micic spoke about the policy of war crimes. You know, in Serbia, it wasn't a policy of war crimes at work. No one in Serbia lacked head hair. And around Stambolic, it has nothing to do with us! Foreign intelligence and someone who's been helping, that's exactly right. Don't plant it. You can lie now, construct, do things, but we need to know what's true. Mrs. Micic, there are only Serbs in The Hague. I don't know if you know, 70 Serbs are in The Hague and there are three Muslims and three Croats, and Croats and Muslims are for crimes against Muslims and Croats. No one is in The Hague today for crimes against the Serb people, and there were countless crimes, "Blash", "Storm", "Kravica", and in Kosovo everything and everything, we know that. "There was a deal with terrorism in Kosovo, and we know it very well. It's all true, but it's almost amazing that you're looking forward to what the Hague tribunal is and that the detention unit is overcrowded, the growing number of people in The Hague, is growing." Now we have these four generals. You're talking now - no more commanding responsibility. I agree, there is no command responsibility for General Lukic. He did honorable work in Kosovo, but has even less command responsibility for Sljivancanin and President Milosevic, for example. What's his command responsibility? All of you, through your televisions, here's how the trial in The Hague is embarrassingly conveyed, as your television broadcasts are in The Hague. Witnesses are always quoted on BK TV and on Pink and RTS, and it is not said what Milosevic said. Constantly a lie, as has been a lie since this morning on BK, this "God's, Karic" television, "Pinku", in Turkey, they say, won the SPS, the DS and the SS. The SPS has won a landslide. The mayoral candidate got three times as much as the DS candidate. Our list is twice as much as the Democratic Party's list, and these small parties, they're there in hints, they don't exist either. They're nowhere to be found. It was 35%, and they must have reported a dozen. They lie like they always do. You talk very often about the Milosevic Constitution. You're all talking about it. Do you even know what the Constitution looks like? The most important thing is to say, it's Milosevic and it's bad! That's not true. It's a great constitution. With the constitution, Serbia is united. What are you doing? What a constitution you will make, where Serbia will break. And what you are proposing from the DSS is absolutely unacceptable. So there is separatism -- decentralisation, regionalization, and beyond that there is separatism and the creation of new republics. When it comes to President Milosevic, do not mention him again, he is a truly dominant political figure. Milosevic had the support of all Serbs and the whole of Serbia in the 1990s. The moment he lost, he had two million, the moment he lost! It's a mental noun for all DOS leaders. All DOS leaders are not up to their knees, Slobodan Milosevic. Nor Vojislav Kostunica! Vojislav Kostunica did not win. You know that well. He's got more, but he hasn't won. You declared it because it was a coup. You talked about it, the rebuilding of the country wasn't, you didn't do anything after the bombing. The country's reconstruction was great, and precisely because you don't know, you're not meant to have 57 bridges built in Serbia in a year. In the end, I'll give you the book. It's the book of Milutin Mrkonjic, our builder, which was all done in a year and a half after NATO aggression, even about NATO bombing you spoke of as if it had to be. What was the NATO bombing about? Because of the endangered human rights of the Shipar and the humanitarian disaster? Was that it? It wasn't. Now I guess it's part of the fact that it's not all true. You were talking about Milosevic not knowing how to negotiate. Why don't you negotiate now? Why don't you free these four generals? It's not gonna happen! You're only fit for it, you have to agree to everything, and you agree, because you've entered into great responsibilities. If this money is true to you, you must fulfil every obligation they impose on you, and nothing good will happen to us with these obligations, and therefore you must leave as soon as possible. Don't even talk about social property! Your dad's the director of the printing company. This company lives very well. He's got good jobs. There's a connection, state service, income management, printing and so on. Don't be shy about social property. It's really incorrect until the end. Don't talk about election results. We have to do it again, that's what you said. The people said, so the people said. What did the people say? When we lost, we lost with a few hundred thousand, and when it came together both from the end and from the canopy from the NATO Pact until I don't know who and then they got two million, and 1,800,000. That was petty. In December there was a hickey, a lynch, you were doing all sorts of things. Anyway, look, don't mention the trust of the people. The best example is Turkey, a central municipality in Serbia. No campaigns, no money, no billboards, no posters, and you've glued Turkey, every candidate had a billboard for ten to fifteen days. What's the situation? The people voted for the SPS. Why? Good candidates, good names and policies recognizable, because our policy was building and hiring, and your policy is breaking, decommissioning and firing workers. That's why you'll be defeated. Thank you. I'm going to give this to Mrs. Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33677	Replication rights, MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group. The basis for the replica, the direct mention of the party in the presentation of the previous speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33678	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just one clarification. The local elections in Turkey were won by the Soviet Union and the SPS. They've got eight councilmen each. Together with the SRS, they've got more than 50% of the total outings and will be able to form power. As far as the presidential elections are concerned, the second round is being attended by the president of the SPS and the candidate of the Soviet Union. So much for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33679	Replica, right on line, MP Bojan Pajtic. The basis for the replica, mentioning the presentation of speakers Tomo Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33680	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by saying that the Constitution is the best we can have to talk about what your mental set is and what moment you are in today. This constitution also mentions social property, mentions SFRY, this constitution is filled with terms that are completely exceeded, and your ideas are also overcome. I was hoping that he was out of line of speech by mentioning anyone's family and anyone's family. That's why, first of all, I came out and I intend to answer you. That level of descent to such a low branch is indeed something that is inappropriate for the National Assembly. We can face political arguments, we can face arguments whether you won NATO. Here, we confess, you've won NATO. Here, we admit, you've done a great job defending Kosovo. Here, we admit, we signed the Kumani Agreement, we signed the Dayton Agreement. We confess everything to you, you were right and you defeated the international community, but don't insult anyone's family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33681	National MP Zarko Obradovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Bojan Pajtic, as president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33682	Fellow MPs, especially DOS MPs, what are you going to do, three years have passed. The bills are now being filed. The line is being underlined, so the accounts for this wrong policy are being submitted. My colleague, Toma Busetic, is right, you destroyed Serbia, except you won't admit it. You don't respect the constitution, you break the laws, you apply selective justice, socialists on one side, and you on the other. Fill your pockets, 900 companies you have sold and boasted with a billion and a few euros, and half of one company is 1,900,000 marks. You kill yourself, so you call it the Parliamentary Commission to come, of course, the Berlusconi and Prodi. It's a theme for the government. You can't object to any argument that my colleague Bushetic made! No argument! That's the problem. You know, when someone writes on the side, pockets full of money, then sacks brought to Serbia, so what do we do, then what do we do, Mr. Pitch? It's not helping to control the media and what you're doing. The bill has to be paid. About the Constitution - we Socialists never claimed that this constitution was the best of all, but that it was a very modern constitution. After all, it is said by the people of the Constitutional Court who are very competent in constitutional matter. But the fact is, it's only for you to do it for a living. The constitution and the story is over. Where's that constitution you're offering? Where is this constitution you're building? Here, we need the Venice Commission. Mr Batic says "The Commission" will come, so we'll work member by member. Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed of the Venice Commission coming to make us a constitution? Do you think it is normal for the Venice Commission to come to Serbia, as my colleague Bora Stanimirovic said "Sicilian Commission" that they are making a constitution for us? Don't we have enough sense? We have, but the problem is that you're one quarreled, divided bunch of parties with different interests and you can't agree on it. Yes, the constitution established Serbia's legal and territorial unity. Yes, the Constitution has made Serbia unique, whether you like it or not. I sincerely hope that Serbian citizens will not allow this dispersion of Serbia that you are conducting in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33683	National MP Zarko Obradovic had a replica. He hurt the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Pajtic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33684	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that my predecessor has done. Article 100(2) says MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Our colleague Obradovic, unlike you, did not take the bag of steam out of the country. That's the difference between you and me. I don't know what you feel called for, I commended you. You asked for a replica of my presentation, and I said you won. I said that we signed the Kuman agreement, that we signed the Dayton Agreement, I said that you made this country happy, and I don't understand what your problem is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33685	Right to the replica of MP Zarko Obradovic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33686	I'll make a gentleman's offer to give Mr. Pitiæ. Take all the money that's been made. Here, for three years you've been looking, Mr. Batic has brought 50,000 pages. Of course, he's always talking about it, and he's not talking about what happened to this deal about the Hague indictees and what happened to Ceku and Thaci. All the money you bring there, but please don't forget those bills from the Seishal and the Marshall Islands? The millions of euros you have put away now in this privatisation, as they will also be subject to confiscation when the elections pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33687	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic, followed by MP Djuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33688	Dear People's MPs and I will talk about the money, but not about what was carried out in the sacks and brought into the country, but about the money of this National Assembly and the taxpayers of Serbia. In an explanation for the replacement of Mrs. Natasa Micic's Assembly president, the discussions of support under the initiative of the Serbian Radical Party often mentioned various documents, read books, and Mrs. Micic was particularly resented that she was unjustly and unprovoked and fined some MPs, especially Serbian Radical Party MPs, and thus dragged her hand into their pocket. And I'm very easy, simple, to get a list, or report, and it's official, legal, adopted, certified. That report makes it clear who was to whom he had his hand in his pocket and who, and who, regular and legal, spent people's money and why. A report on the revenues and expenditures made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for 2002 is being discussed. The report clearly shows that a non-conciling coalition was created in this assembly, but a very principled coalition, unique in its intention to replace the President of the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I would say, very unique in spending the money of the National Assembly, therefore, taxpayers. The single coalition consists of representatives of the former government, the current opposition, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the SPS and representatives of the opposition. Of course, the Democratic Party of Serbia. I know that the Democratic Party of Serbia behind this speaker, as usual, is represented as an opposition, fiercely attacking power in Serbia, and they neither eat onion nor smell onion. It's not like that. Representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia left the Serbian government in 2001. They claimed to leave all other functions. Then a few of them were photographed in front of the cameras, leaving several boards of directors, dozens of others did not mention. Directors of public enterprises in the jurisdiction of the Republic and not to speak. We also have a fresher example. Earlier, there may be two months in the Belgrade City Assembly, the vice-president of Belgrade's DSS Assembly was appointed. I have to explain this half-opposition. I think until he was mentioned as being rarely known in Belgrade and that he was the vice president, how much he stood out in work. Afterwards, three DSS members of the city's government resigned to announce that the Democratic Party of Serbia in Belgrade had also turned into an opposition. Same farce as in the Republic. Several board members, even members of some commissions, are withdrawing, but the Democratic Party of Serbia does not withdraw its people from the post of secretaries, the chief, does not think of the directors of some of the most profitable city public enterprises, to translate them into opposition. For example, let me just mention the Drinking Administration, the Public Burial Services Company. A member of the Culture Commission resigns from the DSS, as this is very profitable. There you can get some free tickets to the theater. Of course, but he doesn't retire and he doesn't go into opposition to the Director of the Drinking Administration, who's a member of the DSS, because it's a hard job. All that cash must be counted on countless gigs in Belgrade's markets. So consistent MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia are always in half. That's why I have to call them half-opposition. I don't know what it's called in some legalist dictionary, but in Teofrasis, it's called hypocrisy. Consistent in inconsistencies, the DSS MPs remained, joining the SRS's motion to replace Natasha Micic and replace the Serbian government. Quite consistently, Mr. Dejan Mihajlov comes out for this pay phone and says the Serbian government is corrupt. If someone had asked him for evidence, I suppose he would have responded in a way similar to his president, that he'd read it in the paper. I did not read it in the paper, but in a report that I mentioned that the most money, the proportion of MPs, who have spent MPs in the National Assembly of Serbia: the SRS, the SPS and the DSS. What's this about? As you know, MPs in the Serbian Parliament have the right to work in the Assembly, to compensate for travel expenses, and a number of MPs, in principle up to one-third of the parliamentary group, can establish a permanent working relationship and receive a salary, while others are receiving co-raptures. Who in this congregation took the most money to pay full - time employees? It's just a unique coalition of the SPS, the SRS and the DSS. Convincingly the most money for salaries of permanent employees of MPs and nominally, in total, the DSS MPs, a total of eight million 484 thousand 106 dinars and some money in 2002. So it was those MPs who spent the least of their time in their workplace. They're being followed by SPS MPs and radicals again. When Natasa Micic says that DSS MPs have never definitely been expelled from the Assembly, this is where the whole protest rebellion arises, and the continued public indulging that I do not speak. Gentlemen of the DSS, you've never really been expelled. They have no interruptions in their work hours, and you took money for wages and for which you claim to have been expelled. So either you return those salaries, and then, under full moral and material responsibility, you claim to be expelled, or you keep the money and stop whining. It's a similar situation when it comes to other costs. When it comes to other costs, especially transport costs, convincingly there are SPS MPs - 10,420,517,00 dinars, for 32 MPs. Radical MPs, 23, are right behind them and 7,000,000.00 dinars, which is twice the cost of the Democratic Party's MPs. Absolute recordmakers in spending the National Assembly's money are honest Serbian radicals. The honest Serbian radicals, who do not normally participate in the work of the Assembly committees, usually stand behind these doors or flee through this door, and not to prove that DOS has no majority and no quorum, those radicals who are deeply resented by Natasa Micic for throwing them out so that they could not participate in the work of the Assembly, just these radicals have charged more diaries, but, for example, even twice as many diaries, MPs of the Democratic Party, who participate in the work of the committee and are the most present at meetings. It seems that every radical, who stopped by to drink coffee or phone from the Serbian Parliament, charged the daily fee. The report shows that Serbian radicals spent the most money just in 2002 when the Assembly did not sit. It wasn't just Fridays, just Mondays and Fridays, which means that Serbian radicals, 23 of them, worked here most on the weekends. Every Serbian radical, where there are no cameras, where these costs are taken, charged in the last year from the 839,947,00 dinars and some more money, which is twice as much as any Democratic Party MP charged. In a show involving Bojan Pajtic and Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, when Bojan Pajtic mentioned this money, Mrs Pop-Lazic said they do not banalise things. Here he reads endlessly to whom Natasa Micic gave all the fines of 3.000,00 or 30.000,00 dinars. It seems to me that it's (gathered) about 2000.000,00 dinars in total. In the last year alone, Mr Radicals, 23, I keep saying that because it should always be kept in mind how many Serbian Radical Party MPs there are members, almost 20.000.000,00 dinars, I guess, to take out the damage. Therefore, gentlemen of the principle coalition for the replacement of Parliament Speaker Natasa Micic and the Serbian government, in principle, regularity, everything under the firm legally, you took the money. You took money to obstruct Parliament's work, to disrupt the adoption of important laws, you took money for your own political promotion. There is no accounting for the people by giving demagogue speeches. This is the bill you have to file to the people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33689	The right to reply was sought by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Zoran Angelkovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic, the basis for the replica is in the presentation of the previous speaker - the direct mention of the party. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33690	Mrs Mojovic, if you were consistent with what you're doing, the fact is that it is because you probably learned this in the political school in Kumrovec, whether you were there as a student or as a lecturer, but you learned it either in Komrovec or in the eighth session, where you were. Talk to someone else about consistency and your opposition internship, your honesty, your lustration and everything else. When you start talking about it, I get sour, like when you talk about taking from your son a allowance, which we could hear here. If you're already talking about who spends on travel expenses, and of course you don't have travel expenses when every day four cars from Nis drive your MPs and officials to the Assembly session. The bill should be presented to the citizens of Nis, or to the citizens of Serbia. You need to make sure they're taking your travel expenses here, like they're coming to their cars. If you're talking about corruption, look at a little report that Minister Djelic is going to deliver on some government funkconners, on the Sessels and other islands and on what was going on, and then make an account for them. You're talking here about people's MPs not supposed to work, that they should be candles, like DOS MPs, who come here and, as windmills, raise their hands. Why didn't you say how many amendments you submitted? Why didn't you say how many times you went out for a pay phone and participated in the debate? Why didn't you say how many MPs your group proposed? Why didn't you say all that? Why didn't you tell me how many times you entered this building and how many boards of directors you were? Why didn't you say why you didn't pass the law of conflict between John and Private Interest? Why didn't you say why the Serbian government is against the law, proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia? Why don't you say how many boards of directors the MPs are sitting in and how many MPs are directors of public enterprises? Why don't you bring those facts out? Why don't you tell me how many MPs are directors of public enterprises? Why don't you tell me how many of your deputies are CEOs of companies that serve public enterprises, who provide security and everything else? Why don't you say so? Why don't you tell us how many of your deputies here are directly related to the government of Serbia and public enterprises? Why don't you tell me how many of your deputies are presidents of the municipalities, how many of them are being abused by official vehicles and by the official team? These are the real data, not that you honor the MPs here because they come to this assembly because they work, because they write amendments, they participate in the work of the committee's session. You want to build a communist assembly where you were in which the people's representatives are just a decor. You can't do that. The opposition serves to draw your attention to the abuses you are doing, to draw your attention to Serbia's destruction. We want to work. If we file a bill, we'll pass it on to the citizens of Serbia. If there have been any abuses, let the Secretary of the Assembly initiate proceedings against any MP who has committed abuse at travel and other costs. Don't say here that MPs shouldn't work, that there should be machines in the system that you imagined in your parasrbia. That's not the kind of Serbia we want. What you have done, you have brought down the reputation of this congregation. If there is an abuse, let the Secretary of the Assembly, who is in charge of monitoring the spending of funds, as well as the President of the Assembly, say where these abuses were committed and let every MP who has done this abuse return the money. If the MP used the money against the Rules of Procedure, he should return it. You can tell how many boards of directors you are sitting in -- how many MPs from your party, or from your parliamentary group of municipal presidents, how many of them are directors or members or presidents of the boards of public enterprises in Serbia, and then see what costs they make in these public enterprises. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33691	The word is by MP Zoran Angelkovic, the right to reply to the presentation of Gorica Mojovic's national message. The basis for the replica is the mention of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33692	In the report by Minister Djelic for 2002 and about the costs of the Assembly, we heard that savings were made in the costs of the Assembly. We now hear that the MPs have spent a lot, especially the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, the Serbian Radical Party MPs and MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I wish you'd spent more, because that would mean that you're not in labor, that you're not the president of the municipality, that you're not ministers, that you're not assistant ministers, that you're not advisors and that you don't have an official car. This is about how high travel costs are. First, I'm sorry you don't have any MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, so there's no one to come to you from Kosovo and Metohija, because then you'd have expenses. But the Socialist Party of Serbia has three MPs from Kosovo and Metohija and is proud of it. This speaks of our relationship with Kosovo and Metohija and your relationship with Kosovo and Metohija. You're talking about Kosovo and Metohija, but you don't have any MPs from Kosovo and Metohija. But if you had an MP from Kosovo and Metohija, it is likely that he would come by his official car and there would still be four cars present as an escort, which would again not be the cost of the Assembly but would be the cost of the interior ministry, because they would be their cars. Our MPs come by bus, sometimes by official car or private car, which they charge. Our MPs are not from Belgrade. From Belgrade, as you know, MPs do not charge travel expenses because they cannot charge them. It's easy for me to talk about this, because I'm not in a working relationship here, nor do I charge travel expenses. But you can't talk about people who come here and that they spend the funds of the congregation. It's easy for Goric Mojovic to talk about this. She was my youthful friend. She was a youthful official. , so as CK Serbia's executive secretary, she got one apartment, so she gave birth and got her apartment back, so now there's no need for those costs. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, a few years ago the MPs of the Democratic Party didn't come in here for two years, they didn't enter the Assembly Hall, but regularly, which can be checked, every day, when the board's meeting and when the Assembly's meeting, they charged travel expenses and daily fees. [[Employers applaud and shout "Bravo".]] These SPS MPs, the SRS and the DSS at least enter the Assembly, sit here and work, discuss, contribute as much as they can to the cost of travel. You don't think they're coming by plane and if they were to come by plane, they'd have to charge for it, but there's no plane in Kosovo Mitrovica, they have to come by car or bus, and I guess they have to charge for it. But let's not change the subject, it's not the president of the Assembly here on the agenda because MPs spend money on travel expenses and daily expenses, they're here to spend travel expenses because they come to these sessions and that means the session is right, and the chairman of the Assembly for a thousand other things is on the agenda here, which didn't allow MPs to work well. Finally, for the sake of Serbian citizens, the SPS MPs are charging the diaries, giving the party, not taking home to their families so that the party can work, doing the truth, and about how the citizens judge it speaks and the result of yesterday in Ćuprija, the day before, when we have won, of course, is the same number of committees with the Serbian Unity Party, but one 200 votes more, when our candidate got how much they all got together, but it is important facts, rather than less important that RTS cannot pass those numbers, and as Toma Busetic speaks, you cover it. And we covered, so we lost the election, but we covered less, and you covered more and you'd lose more.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33693	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a replica, the same or the right of the promoter? Replica, the basis is the party's mention in the presentation of Gorica Mojovic's National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here from Mrs Mojovic we could hear Goebbels' demagogue of the old communist staff, because Mrs Mojovic was the secretary of culture at the time of Tito, and then at the time of Milosevic, and here she is today, irreplaceable and it gave her the right to speak of Mrs Micic in this way, not mentioning her. However, she put on her burden something extra that we forgot to put on her, because we didn't think she broke the law in that sense, but now the question is whether there might be a basis for asking for Mrs. Micic's discharge, because if the MPs received something that was not supposed to be accepted outside of that rule that exists, and the approval for all of this is given by Mrs. Micic and has to sign every one of those MPs' clubs, then Ms. Micic is criminally responsible and for that. I am sorry that Mrs Mojovic has further accused Mrs Micic here, because I think she was still moving within her powers and within the framework of the rules concerning the reception of MPs. She showed Mrs Mojovic that she does not know what the job of the MP is. The job of the MP is not to come into this room and press these voting buttons and insert other people's identification cards. The job of the MP is that whenever he receives a proposal from the Government or any other MP or parliamentary group, he will study the proposal to read a lot of books. You'll see when we talk about the government, because I've had to read at least 10 books, and they're all about the economy, even though I'm an expert lawyer, and it's serious work, because I'm talking to the citizens of gentlemen. As far as the fleet is concerned, let me just warn you that the fleet of both the government and Parliament is twice as big as it was before 2000. I'm the deputy head of the parliamentary group, and I'm the only time I've asked the official car to drive me home, because I haven't been physically well, otherwise I get on the bus to work and I'm leaving, and you all know it. The colleagues who come to the car from their places where they live have the right to receive compensation for it and it's known by a mile exactly how much it is. But they should know, and we'll talk about it when the government, when it's discussed, is that ministers even charge travel expenses in the government, and come with official cars. If you do not know how much it is, we will prepare you and you will see exactly how much the ministers have charged by coming to their work, using official cars from the government, and from the pockets of taxpayers in their pockets, and that was indeed hypocritical of Mrs Mojovic to remind us that we are receiving salaries, which, I mean by law, are quite normal, and MP groups in the global receive as much as they are numerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33695	Correction for a stenogram, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic had a replica based on the name and last name, and Parliament member Vjerica Radeta as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group on the basis of the party's mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33696	Mrs Mojovic made a lot of mistakes in her previous discussion. First, someone planted her first piece of the report, she thought she was speaking at the City Hall session, so she only realized somewhere in half of her story that this was the National Assembly. Mrs Mojovic, today and these days, there is no debate here on how much the MP's daily is, here is responsible for stealing votes, for stealing cards, and you are also one of the active participants in this, and you have helped Mrs Natasa Micic to commit a crime. Thanks to you and your colleagues, among other things, she's the subject of a debate in this National Custody these days. I expected you to defend your colleague, try to explain to us how Mrs Natasa Micic here called the Serbian Radicals "fascists", without being warned by the chairman, I thought that you would explain to us how Mrs Natasa Micic is ashamed of the MPs, how it is ashamed of the voters who brought us to this National Assembly and how Mrs Natasa Micic feels about the interpretation of Mrs Komic's opinion that even after this debate he is chaired by the Assembly, Parliament where those she is ashamed of are sitting, where those she calls "fascists". Mrs. Micic, you can't be ashamed of us. Being ashamed or proud of someone else can only be someone's family, our families are proud of us, and I'm not sure yours has anything to be proud of, I'm talking exclusively about your work in this House. It is nothing personal that Mr. Pajtic would not have warned me as he did earlier, and I expected Mr. Pajtic that you would also draw attention to Mrs. Natashi Micic that he cannot personally bring himself into the debate in this National Assembly, which she has shown both times, not to repeat, they have heard Serbian citizens and is the best commercial about himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33697	Because of the facts given in the speech of the People's Parliament, and the truth works and you can check in comparison with the stenogram, the president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly did not mention the word you quoted, and the only MP who mentioned the word you quoted was MP Djordje Mamula in translation and in the free argumentation of the expression, which was also used by the MP Natasa Micic and others. So it was never spoken for by the National Assembly. This is about reasons for giving facts that are inadmissible for the National Assembly speaker. I give a warning to the MP, Milorad Mircic, for disrespecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[Milorad Mircic throws it out of place, but you can't hear it.]] National MP Milorad Mircic casts a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which explicitly prescribes that discarding is forbidden from the bench of the MPs. The word has the People's MP Bojan Pajtic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33698	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for replication of the personal name and last name and for the replica of the mention of the parliamentary group by MPs Mihajlov, MP Pop-Lazic and MP Angelkovic. It is quite unusual that when it comes to exact data and it is shown that some MPs spend four or five or ten times more than other MPs, the counter-argument will be Kumrovec, or the 8th session. By the way, Ms Mojovic is not a participant of the 8th session, it is quite ungentlemanic to tell the truth about Mrs Mojovic, about having received two apartments, and knowing that she, having responded to the replica, cannot respond in the same way; that is the way you showed the last time you came out of this room, when Mrs Micic reported, after all day of maltretman and criticism to respond with a replica, taking out the cards and exiting this hall. Dear gentlemen of the DSS, if we were to make statistics, we would see that your MPs are as many officials in local self-government; and MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia are also coming to the public car, the official car, and there is no way to make a difference. It's still DSS half-authority, half-opposition. There's still DSS all over local self-government, except in the town of Novi Sad, in a coalition with DOS, and that's the truth you can hide, but you can't get away from it. As for the roles and obligations and the work of the MP who brings out the SRS, the work of the MP in the Rules of Procedure is also participation in committees, and where the SRS does not participate in any committee of the National Assembly. The job of the MP is also to get to work on time, to insert a card at the beginning of the session, when voting on certain laws that are on the agenda, and when we see that kind of demagogy, which is nowhere in the world, only in Serbia, that MPs only have an obligation to vote, MPs only have an obligation to come in the morning, and in this MPs get four, five or ten times less money than MPs in the opposition, then the question of equality in this assembly is asked. As for the SPS MPs, respected gentlemen, the people of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia do not allocate funds to give money to the SPS, but to participate in the work of this assembly and in voting on the laws and on every day of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33699	The word comes from MP Djuro Popovic, after whom Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33700	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Parliament, at this time, it is not pleasant for all the well-intentioned in our high home when they say the condemnation, even if it was justified, to one lady, however, Mrs Natasa Micic is primarily the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose shift we are talking about today. We are deeply aware of this unkind subject of our commitment to all voters who have shown us their trust, confident that we will honor them in their and our Parliament. Mrs. Micic did not only fail our expectations, but she has contributed many times to the crucial adoption of devastating legal acts both per nation and per state. That is why I must mention, as have many previous presidents, the Labour, Employment, Privatisation, Lustration and other laws that have allowed hopelessness, facing millions of our fellow citizens, as well as the sunflower of many human values and fluids. Mrs. Micic, you are obviously a puppet of oligarchy who does nothing to preserve her power. The false votes of absent MPs, the false majority in this House, and much more, is really not just your oversight or your failure. By doing so, you have voluntarily unhappy the vast majority of Serbian citizens. Among them are the most workers and pensioners whose interests are fought by the party I belong to. Don't you know that in this country almost equalised the number of employees, unemployed and pensioners, i.e. persons with disabilities and users of various social benefits? Is there an economy in the world that would withstand such a burden? In doing so, even those who are still in a working relationship, and not in front of the man-made gates of former gigants, effectively exploited working hours is no more than three hours a day. Is it not clear to you, Mrs. Natasa Micic, that you have been deceived by those who are willing to sacrifice you in the name of their selfish interest. Hence, it is honorable and only right for you to resign yourself, just as the MP did, who, apparently, decided to leave every further political engagement because of dishonest attempts. You still have a chance, perhaps just a few more days, Mrs. Micic, to preserve your dignity, otherwise be assured that the citizens of Serbia have already voted your mistrust and regardless of the number of votes counted at the end of this debate. Out of all the above, the party of workers and pensioners, as well as the parliamentary group of the Soviets whose coalition partner we are, we will vote for your shift. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33701	The word has been issued by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the parliamentary group, after which, MP Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33702	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, every nation and its state has both the past and the present and the future. Smart peoples from the past learn lessons to make the right decisions in the present and to ensure the future. The future depends on the country's present and good work depends on us. All that is happening during the debate on Parliament's confidence, Mrs. Natasa Micic, is saying that this parliament is in a major crisis. It is certain that every MP is personally responsible for the crisis of Parliament, but also that the most responsible among us, and that is Parliament Speaker, Mrs Natasa Micic, has the greatest responsibility. Even if many things were fake, only used in the campaign for the upcoming snap parliamentary elections, it should be replaced. Members of the Socialist People's Party have therefore signed a request for the removal of Parliament's president, because they consider its responsibility to be the greatest for the state of affairs in Parliament. It is certain that in this election campaign that is already fierce, and this also shows the debate today, she also showed a debate on Wednesday and Thursday when I could not come up with the words of the replicas between the individual heads of parliament groups, that we should look essentially into the eyes. Why are we sitting in Parliament in the first place? I guess we sit in this House to do something useful for this people and for this country. I wonder what everyone thinks of us, those who listen to everything that's said today and Wednesday and Thursday. Is this all appropriate to this speaker and whether it can provide the essence, which is to raise economic production, the national economy, the survival of a single Serbia according to the Constitutional Charter, as defined by the province of Vojvodina and the province of Kosovo and Metohija. Is everything agreed here to help the country's better international position? Let's get back to the beginning. The beginning in this hall was at the end of January 2001. At that time, the opposition had 74 MPs, and the DOS original had 176 MPs. I was the first to answer the opposition word. I've heard teeth scribble here in the O.R., and it's right for someone to answer the word. Gentlemen, the problem is with the original DOS. There's no problem in the opposition. You've had 176 MPs, you've voted together many legal projects, you've gnawed your teeth here in the O.R. One of the reasons SNS lawmakers asked for the debate and voted in favour of this debate is that Serbian citizens see where the original DOS came from, how the original DOS MPs behave, where one party is now a false opposition, where the ruling coalition is. The problem in this country was the moment when the personal interest was overcome by the party, when the president of the assembly, the same president of the assembly who pushed the Rules of Procedure, who took away the key rights to speak to MPs: the right to replication, the right to amendments. The problem in this room arose when the party interests of you, in the original DOS, became more important than state interests. All that's going on in this country, the problem is with you, in the original DOS. Let Serbian citizens see the problem, the problem between leading DOS parties, and let them think twice about tomorrow when they vote in the elections, to think about who they will vote for. I'm telling them -- don't vote for parties, vote for people, vote for those citizens of this country who have proven by their biography that they are capable of leading this country, to lead the economy. We're talking today about who got the money, whether someone got the apartments, what anybody told them, whether anyone was water-popping, we're not doing anything, that's not making bread, that's not doing business. The Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of Serbia rightly seeks the shift of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why is he looking? Because there's a problem, a problem called jobless workers, a problem called metals without a future. There's a problem. We're in trouble as a country, in big trouble! This problem is not solved here, this problem is being solved in the extraordinary parliamentary elections, but also in the fact that Serbian citizens, watching this debate here, see who they should stand behind -- are they behind those who do not have working days, and are smart for this speaker to spit on others, are they for those who put party interests above state interests, are they for those who have broken down themselves? The citizens voted for change and were right to vote for change. They lived hard! Lessons need to be learned. Those who learned lessons are stronger in front of those citizens tomorrow. But they did not vote for DOS in which party interests dominate the state's interest. Your left- and right-hand conflict, gentlemen, costs a lot of these citizens of Serbia, costs a lot of this country. You, newly-roasted opposition, who are opposition to those with whom you have jointly voted the Privatisation Act, many tax regulations and many laws that have made business conditions difficult and led to the collapse of many economic operators, you voted in the Federal Parliament and chose the governor who introduced the monetary authority that broke up Serbia's economy. You've done everything together. The only benefit of this debate is for the citizens to see how far you've led us. How are you? We did well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33703	The word is by MP Zoran Micovic, followed by MP Ljubisa Maravic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33704	The esteemed chairman, dear friends, dear colleagues, this is the fifth day that I have waited in line for the public. Thank you. And my colleague Bane Ivkovic waited a long time. From the replica, we've finally come to report on this item of the agenda here. Of course, I will support Mrs. Natasa Micic's work so far and with those epithets that Dragisa Marinkovic has said here about a president of cultural and smooth behaviour, the extraordinary leadership of the Assembly and, above all, a rational relationship with those problems and those tasks that this people have given her, and this assembly has shown her. The moment we got into this room, there were almost 250 of us, and if we look at where and where the state was found, we'll remember that it was almost at the freefall phase, without any touch point with normal functioning. Now, during a period of time, these laws that lead the country and keep it, break up with one party's management through national security, bring it in and bring it into normal flows. Of course, it wasn't easy at all, and of course there is an opposition that attacks it with a heart attack and, of course, there is one part that defends it. There's nothing disputed about that. The best results, from today's results as the work of this Parliament and Mrs Natasa Micic, are visible at every turn. Whoever doesn't see it, either pretends he doesn't see it or something's wrong with him. If we take into account that in the past, we've had wars, which we've gone to, and we haven't, in fact, participated, we've gone with planes and tanks, we've come back with the tags and tractor trailers, we've received this people, we've had hyperinflation where those zeroes couldn't fit on the bill, and for that same bill there couldn't be bought one piece of bread, we've had international sanctions unrecorded in history, we've had all these refugees that were here, and I'm not saying they threatened, but in some way, they've narrowed down our people's employment opportunities here, domestically, and all of them came to one bombing, what's going on? (Theme. ) I am talking about the topic and I am talking about the effect that we have achieved as Parliament for this period. If someone hasn't washed their ears properly, let them wash. One hundred and fifty laws, a decision, influenced the fact that we have a perfectly decent travel network today, that we have a perfectly neat supply of electricity, that we have fuel at every pump, that no one will invite our children and neighbors to war, and that, at the same time, dear friends, from the moment we took over local self-government, even earlier, and new laws after 2000, we have allowed the full and normal functioning of all environments and the resolution of all those problems that life means, which are not politics, what citizens need at all, from education, from infrastructure, from health, and from every place and in every place our citizens can have the satisfaction of living needs without being a story that borders with hunting stories. The basic and biggest problem, nothing fairer than that, is the result -- what's the opposite of these hunting stories, which I wanted to tell you about. The only and biggest enemy of it is the cantar, and that's actually the election. There's no fairer thing about the globe than there is elections. It's like a list in a company. When the list committee comes in and counts that there's one pay phone in this room, so when we count ourselves at the end of the election, then we'll see what we've done, where we've been and what we've done. There is no dilemma that serious people in serious environments are doing everything possible to make life normal, to do things by law, to do things in public and to do things effectively. I would say that this last attribute, of the work of every government, Mrs Natasa Micic, as chairman, did just that. It made the work as efficient as possible and we who were sitting here seemed quorum and participated in the work, we also participated in it and we know best. Those who didn't even go into the O.R. might find it a little harder to talk about. After all, it is parliamentaryism and nothing ugly is happening here. When we return to our environments and those who, according to a esteemed colleague from Milan, have sent us, have chosen, because when these people, who have chosen us, ask us -- what are you arguing about, the basic and the only impression that doesn't want to happen here with the people, is that this is one situation to disgust everyone, that no one wants to get into a superlative or in some good story about Parliament. That's totally logical. You have conflicts in the Japanese Parliament, you have conflicts and fights in all other parliaments. I would say that we worked very efficiently and I commend Mrs. Natasa Micic for that. If someone doesn't like it, it's his right. It's perfectly legitimate for one who has objections to work to bring it out here. But it's not fair to talk about it here, not to mention the attributes that were just carried out. Of course, I repeat again, there's nothing fairer than choices and I can't wait for them. I can't wait for us to count ourselves and go out to the citizens and say, "Here you go, we were you, we did it, give us votes or give votes to those you think you can trust." In each election, the person in whom the city or village has the highest trust is elected and sent to the congregation, the man whose village knows how to borrow the most money. Let's count ourselves down and see who's been sent here and who's come from what circles and who's been acting the way he is and who's acting today. I responsibly claim that I belong to a party who has the right to say so. Don't look so hard, just don't throw it at me, please. Choose the sport you're going to fight with me in. Dear gentlemen, I'm going to finish this speech with one small remark from my colleague, but he's gone from here. When they come out for a pay phone for people who once led this country, lost power in the elections, they talk with their mouths full like they left us a Japanese economy or at least the legacy of some scary big economy and full of budgets. You know well how much funds were inherited in the country and what were the positions and what had been done so far. I'm proud of what we've done so far. They're proud and they're my citizens on me, I'm sure of it. I've been here for the last few days, for the last five days, waiting to start talking here, so I went to a few constituency units, and I had a story with them called life and problems. However, I had the support of my citizens for what we are doing, with all the objections and respect for the life problems that have arisen, which have not been solved and which are definitely or promised as our promise. We don't run away from it. I'm staying with that support of Mrs. Natashi Micic. After the election, where Serbia needs a serious statesman, where it will defeat the candidate I am pleased to carry here, do not be afraid, we will discuss new elections, so come out on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33705	The People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravić has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33706	Dear fellow MPs, it is common in all parliamentary countries of the world to discuss the confidence of ministers, the government of the Republic, the shortening of the trust of the president of the National Assembly, as we can see today in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. In light of this debate, I considered it necessary to personally clarify certain concerns relating to my name, and they are directly and indirectly related to this agenda point. The first concerns the debate on October 16th and a statement that I could have taken over the session, and it turned out, though it was not said that I had part of the responsibility for not holding the session on October 14th. The truth is, I note that in the provisions of Article 32. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia say that the president of the National Assembly in the event of temporary prevention replaces one of the vice presidents he has appointed. The fact is that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, authorised Vice President Gordana Komic to replace her in her absence, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the provisions of the members, I am familiar with this decision. Therefore, I had no right to self-initiatively take over the session scheduled on 14 October, despite the fact that the next provision of Article 32 states that if it does not determine, the president of the National Assembly "will be replaced by the oldest vice president". And if I were right, that is best confirmed by the words spoken for this speaker by the president of the National Assembly at the session on 16 October, which I will quote: "I am obliged to give you an explanation. I apologize for waiting so long. The session did not begin on Tuesday (October 14th) because consultations were carried out and important political decisions were made. ". I think it's all said. Dear fellow Members, assuming that the president of the National Assembly would have been voted out of confidence or resigned, only then would the oldest vice-president of the National Assembly be obliged to take over the presidency until the election of the new president. For the sake of the public, I would like to remind you that at those times when I chaired meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there were no objections, no written or oral remarks to my work. I am therefore very surprised and offended by the fact that even though political rhetoric, in which someone is afraid and afraid of another fact, that I, as a member of the SPS, can find myself briefly in the seat of the chairman until the election of the new National Assembly president. The president or chairman of the National Assembly is required to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the law, regardless of which political parties he came from. Dear ladies and gentlemen, as far as I'm concerned, there's no need for anyone to be afraid of me, because I've never given anyone reason to do my job and behavior before. I am a member of the SPS in continuity from its establishment, and I am proud of it, just as you are proud of your political parties, thanks to which you are sitting in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I am taking the opportunity to finally re-negotiate all the insinuations that have recently been made in an orchestrated campaign at my expense, which link me to the stoning of Mr Vojislav Kostunica during his visit to Kosovo Mitrovica in 2000. I don't want to go down to the level of those who know it's not true, and this slander is still being launched in public. All I can tell them from this pay phone is that it's an honor. All of this for the sake of the truth that Serbian citizens must know, I had to say, because it is an attack on my party and on my personality, and I hope that the citizens of Serbia will know in the next parliamentary elections that they will give their vote to, as they did in the elections in Turkey on Sunday, the other day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33707	The People's MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic has the word, followed by the MP Ljubodrag Grbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33708	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I entered this hall in January 2001, like all of you, as a member of the Doss winning coalition, a political group that triumphed convincingly in the December 2000 elections, I had no idea that I would see some of them with whom I was on the winning team, with whom I received a mandate from the citizens to change Serbia and to withdraw the border between Serbia's evil and Serbia's future, now on the other hand. To see on the side of those who have destroyed, humiliated, insulted, thrown into the mud for 10 years. The enormous amount of negative energy due to personal incompetence, indifference, has affected the willingness to make a pact with those who took the citizens' savings, who pushed and humiliated the citizens in the endless order for basic life-forms: bread, milk, edible oil, sugar, flour, which, with the blood of others' children, printed the borders only of them known large Serbia. When we started working as a new government every day to strengthen institutions, to clean Serbia along and across, someone didn't like it. It did not appeal to those who sleep, who, for the sake of great love for their pets, cannot be maximumly engaged, but are ready to delay everything, justifying it by their unintelligence, proverbial ignorance, and that all hopes and desires of the citizens are very easy to sell. The initiative that we are discussing today is not inspired by what some want to say to democratically check the confidence of the president of the National Assembly, but inspired by the desire to return to Serbia chaos, that Serbia should return to isolation and bring Serbia back to the state we had before October 5th. Believing Ms. Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, gives her full confidence in her election as president, when she said and made the parliament of the Republic of Serbia effective, so today the MPs trust her and give her full confidence. Natasa Micic resented those who, after the murder of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, proposed a concentration government, keenly seeking to see those people who brought to perfection all forms of political liquidation in Serbia instead of the state of emergency in Serbia. Natasa Micic resented those who were unable to bring optimism into Serbia, to bring joy, the willingness to change this country at a high speed or what one Sumadinian told me at the time, that Natasa Micicic had resented and told them, "the nadzak of grandmothers and jinx" who today will not do what he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33709	People's MP, please pay attention to the language you pay to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33710	We have a paradoxical situation here, and I've taken the opportunity to get out of the stenographic notes as now, the coalition partners, have been honoring each other from this pay phone. And against Natasha Micic it is those who put more stockings on their heads than on their feet, who are Saddam's castles crazy and whose white mice do not give peace to function normally. Under the chairmanship of Ms. Natasa Micic, this assembly meeting has to this day completed more than 240 working days, an absolute record, unrecorded since 1990. Under the chairmanship of Ms. Natasa Micic, the assembly assembly passed 109 laws, also a record. Just to mention the Law on Public Procurement, on Labour, on Broadcasting, on Privatisation, on concessions, these are some of the laws that made Serbia more orderly and healthy. I am proud to be an MP in the first decorat parliament after 55 years of communism and the fact that the president of the National Assembly is the first democratic president after 55 years of communism in Serbia. Democratic Party MPs give full support and confidence to the president of the National Assembly, Ms. Natasa Micic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33711	MP Zarko Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33712	Here, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I went out to advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 99: "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." We've heard a lot from fellow MPs who have nothing to do with the agenda. It's nice that he's defending Mrs. Micic. This is probably also the obligation and task within the DOS, not to go into other reasons, but the defence of Ms. Micic is objectively defending what cannot be defended, which is a violation of the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure, not to repeat all this, stealing when voting in Parliament and, of course, complicity in stealing parliamentary mandates. It's a shame to use words like Serbia evil, the blood of other people's children, white mice, Saddam's castle crazy and so forth. I understand DOS MPs are nervous, because as the election approaches, the results are getting worse and worse, but what we're going to do is life. You'll have to face it. When we talk about other topics in the next few days, you will see that there are many things that cannot be denied. One speaker mentioned earlier everything that was the mark of the '90s: and isolation, sanctions and refugees and war and this. But don't you think the measure of incompetence and current authorities today is three years after 5 October, when statistical indicators say the production rate is less than 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997. Serbia-Montenegro Statistics Institute announced two days ago that production is now 55% lower than in 1991. Don't you think that's some indicator that says you're working successfully? No matter what you say, no matter what you argue, you react by sticking your finger in your eye. Okay, that's your problem. Anyway, this pay phone can't be used the way you do it. The election will come.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33713	Warning that a broken Rules of Procedure by the chairman refers to... the chairperson violates the Rules of Procedure if he does not warn a speaker who is acting contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In the event of a debate on the trust of National Assembly President Natasa Micic, I suppose even when we discuss the Government of the Republic of Serbia twice that the topic is so broad that it is practically impossible to determine what it is that some MP, whether he is speaking for resolution or against resolution, benefits in the argument. If we follow the session closely, if you look at the stenogram, that width of the argument is exactly the same for all who approach the speakers and react only when one of the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is clearly broken. Do you want the Administrative Board to declare the injury? Thank you. The MP doesn't want to. The word is from the MP Ljubodrag Grbic, followed by MP Vojislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33714	The Honorable Presidency, Madam President, respected political opponents, respected political like-mindeds, as regards Serbia's Liberals, Ms Natasa Micic can remain the speaker of parliament, and thus also the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is not at all controversial for us, but the fundamental question is what about parliamentaryism in Serbia today and what is its future, where parliament is in the three-way model of power today and what will be with it tomorrow? Did we all here accept the principle that parliamentaryism is the essence of parliamentary political opponents leading politics as a competition for their political ideas, on the welfare of the community, that parliamentary policy is a fight, but a struggle of belief, not a civil war. Do we accept that Parliament is not only an expression of the will of the majority that is perceived as a command of God, but is a form and a way in which political will is built, by which laws are passed, that Parliament is, above all, the legislator of the law. Is it clear to all of us that Parliament is not a higher sense, but a decision maker for the benefit of the community. Parliament is a framework where it is shown whether we representatives of citizens are mature for politics. Whether the Institute of political adulthood makes sense or if they can sit here just having babies. That is why building political beliefs leaves the relationship between us and our political associations, which are one of the assumptions of politics. We have to, "principle must be as I say," replace the parliamentary principle, "I just think so." If we accept this, if we give relative importance to our private beliefs, it can, in important moments for the community, be an acceptable reasonable transfer of votes from the parliamentary majority to the minority, but also from the minority to the majority. Why would it first be legitimate and desirable and secondly illegal and undesirable? Dear colleagues, of course, there is no parliamentaryism unless it provides for the formation, protection and functioning of a parliamentary minority, its natural tendency to make parliament's majority responsible and examines its validity in a procedural sense. I will remind you that the ideas for improving procedures and conditions for the work of this Parliament have been in place for a long time. That many of us have reached consensus and parliamentary minorities and the majority. It is enough to remind me of the request of Liberal Serbian so-called A small debate in Parliament on the government each month, in a limited time, attended by the entire government compulsory, by questioning ministers, not to repeat the idea that representatives of the Committee on Finance or the budget in mature parliaments are representatives of the parliamentary minority. So political searches and responsibilities are a regular and not an extraordinary life of parliament that would point to some sort of emergency. They are no parliamentary wonders, but a normal parliamentary life. In order for the parliamentary river to flow peacefully, the coasts are needed. But we don't sit professionally in Parliament, which my party always stood for. In our practice quorum are only MPs present in the hall, not MPs in Parliament, which is mostly used to obstruct Parliament's institutions, not parliamentary majority. So, gentlemen, this Parliament is just a framework in which the world of life moves, and the world of life and its quality depends on everything else. Therefore, there is no reason to blame it all on the speaker of Parliament, i.e. President of Parliament, we already have to help her. We need to look ourselves in the eye and, without exception or enthusiasm, admit what kind of people we are. Everyone, without exception, gets what they deserve in the past, the present and the future. The parties aren't general headquarters, gentlemen. There's no room for dukes in parliamentary politics. Parliamentary struggle is not a daily civil war. This parliament needs to know that there are citizens and society outside of it who should live their lives peacefully and whose well-organised parliament allows politics to be just a part of life, not life itself. The respected parliamentary minority, respected political opponents, respected parliamentary majority, is the basic meaning of this institution's legislation, but also restricts power, to keep it within the limits of the Declaration on Civil and Political Rights, as good and correct can come to power, but others can. The role of this parliament is that no one can harm Serbia's larger scales with their decisions, regardless of what he thinks of his own decisions and what his intentions are. So instead of this debate, I suggest we present here a project to improve the work of this institution, because it makes sense. The proponent of this debate will do the best if he announces a project to improve the parliamentary position of MPs, which can be of greater benefit both in reviewing his relationship with both the state and parliament, and above all towards politics. It didn't all start yesterday. I can't quite recall that like the former majority of these formerly left some recognizable fluid to improve the parliamentary life of the parliamentary minority. There's some messages. When there is no sense of self-restraint in your own power in power, you will beg for a sip of parliamentary freedom. It's a rule left, especially in Serbia. It is our turn to finally settle ourselves in the Serbian Parliament as appropriate and to have no false illusions that we all, as we have, have done, have done much on this plan. No, I just think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33715	The word has been made by MP Vojislav Jankovic, a National MP after him, Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33716	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully read the motion for discharge of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I have listened carefully to all these discussions. It is clear that the fundamental theme is not whether and how many times did Mrs. Natasa Mici break the Rules of Procedure but that it was an attempt to politically calculate the forces that were defeated, symbolically said on October 5th, with a policy conducted by the Democratic Opposition of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That, in itself, would not trigger such a big and bile debate, and above all because it is quite clear that the proponents of this initiative are political parties that have a completely different system of values from us, political parties that, compared to the Democratic Party of Serbia, make up two political sexes. There's no excessive material for controversy. The Serbian Radical Party and its political concept had the opportunity to demonstrate its functioning. We know very well that this political concept necessarily leads to a conflict with our neighbours or with most of our neighbours, that this political concept, the political concept of the Serbian Radical Party leads to a conflict, i.e. a distant desire to engage in "European integration" or "euro-Atlantic integration". The Serbian Radical Party's political concept necessarily leads to increased tension within Serbia, primarily tension between various ethnic groups. In developed form, this political concept leads to the destruction of the economy and, ultimately, to the crisis of our society itself. Such political concepts exist in other European countries as well. Fortunately, in almost all of Europe's democracies, they represent marginal political concepts. Fortunately, the political concept is marginal in Serbia as well. It will remain that way and should remain -- a marginal political concept, and above all, Serbian citizens very expensively paid for school, a life school, so they would be a very unserious political people if they were to trip to the same stone again. Comments concerning the breach of the Rules of Procedure may be limited to whether Natasa Micic was overly strict in applying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure or whether she selectively applied the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which refer to the measures set out in the sitting itself. Maybe it is. There's an assessment at the level of what the sports dictionaries might say: "Did the judge judge judge the penalty too harshly? "But in any case, it is not a basic feature of Ms. Natasa Micic's work. The basic feature of Ms Natasa Micic's work is precisely in an attempt to defend Parliament's basic function. Parliament's basic function is legislative activity, as well as its persistent defence against persistent attempts at obstruction. Obstruction is a legitimate means of parliamentary struggle. That's not controversial. However, obstruction can be directed towards one legal project, to one decision. But a four-year obstruction of parliament's work is called destruction. Natasa Micic has very persistently and very bravely defended the reasons for our arrival in the Assembly. The reason we came to the Assembly, I repeat, is legislative activity. All those who wanted to prevent it, thanks above all to the great burden that Mrs Natasa Micic accepted on herself, failed. I, above all, thank her on behalf of all MPs of the Democratic Party. When we talk about the political aspects of this initiative, what is further complicated is the fact that this initiative is also joined by the Democratic Party of Serbia, a party on the same election list, along with us, elected to this parliament. It makes the whole problem more politically complicated. The Democratic Party of Serbia, or its founders, were temporary partners to professor Dr Dragoljub Micunovic, when he was building the Democratic Party. Then they were temporary partners with Vuk Draskovic, when he was making DEPOS. In 1996, our temporary partners at the Together Coalition were when we first seriously shaken and violated Slobodan Milosevic's regime. After that, they were DOS temporary partners in 2000. Here they are today as a partner of the red-and-black coalition, I hope, again, temporary. Gentlemen and ladies or ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I use this general political debate to accuse you of political dishonesty. That political dishonesty can... (Laughter in the O.R. and reaction to MPs' speech. I didn't understand the play. Would you like to repeat that, Mr. Martian? Will you do it again? I'd like that show of yours to record your camera. (Employer Dragan Martian from the post of MPs is stressed. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33717	I ask the speaker not to throw MPs in the MPs' benches. I ask the messenger to sit in the bench, not to cast the speaker, and to behave accordingly in the conduct of the MP in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33718	I respect and apologize, Madam Chairman. So the political failure of the DSS can be viewed through two levels. One level of this political dishonesty of being dishonest in partnership. Ladies and gentlemen, DOS MPs have entered this assembly of Serbia with a sincere intention to bring laws, rules and standards in force in Serbia and Serbia's society, as far as possible, closer to standards and laws and rules and that they are valid in Europe. Our second task was to lead this process to a level where it would become irrevocable and that second task we all happily accomplished together. So the process is irrevocable and Serbia will be a country where there will be no return to a regime like Slobodan Milosevic. However, your political dishonesty is reflected in another fact. So, when we entered this parliament with the intention of changing Serbia, you entered Parliament with the basic idea of capitalising the ratings and popularity that your party's president had at that point. You knew very well that this rating and this popularity, that all this cannot be sustained permanently, and that is the fundamental reason why in March 2001 you left the DOS essentially and went into a policy of shaking the government with a desire to produce new parliamentary elections as soon as possible, with a desire to capitalise on the political popularity of your president at the time. That's what your political dishonesty is about. You failed to define the alternative concept of politics at the time, there were no even these scandals, and the fact is that they are shaking our political life today, when you were trying to build a policy on the fact that you are being disturbed by the agencies and you are being bothered by some of the regulations that the government is making, very quickly you have invented the shadow government, and there is the President of the Government sitting in the shadows, and all with the idea of articulating a political alternative. Unfortunately, you have failed to articulate a political alternative and today you are trying to, merely looking at political life through the negative aspects of what is happening, to get to early parliamentary elections, it is politically legitimate, correct, and it is not disputed. What you're being dishonest about, so the first level of untruth is in partnership, and the second level of dishonesty is dishonesty towards the citizens. You know very well that the transition of this society necessarily carries a glass of bile with it and you know very well that Serbia must pay for the sake of the Czechs, the sins and the failures of the past both in the economy and in the organisation of life and in the structure of society and you are very aware of it. However, constantly pointing out those negative phenomena, you are trying to get a certain political benefit out of it, without having the courage to answer openly and precisely where all our roots are, where our problems are. For these reasons, I think that Serbia will already know in these presidential elections that it needs to know what it needs and that after that it will give a very clear answer in the parliamentary elections which is the way Serbia should go. What we are offering and what Serbian citizens will be able to recognize, it is a responsible and courageous policy, responsible and hard work and positive energy, a clear political concept and that is what you lack, and I am sure that in the next election, Serbian citizens will support exactly this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33719	The right to a replica, MP Dragan Marsicanin, the basis for a direct mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33720	So the right to replica is acting as shadow president, it's true, the DSS has formed, not invented, but formed something that exists as an institution in democratic parliamentary states, who doesn't know how to check, is not difficult. And it's true that we have a shadow government that the Prime Minister at one point called a government in the shade. It's true, we have a government in the shade, and you have a government in decline. It's been a long time spent, and I'm going to be quite brief in the evidence, that is, trying to prove the thesis that the DSS is an unfair partner. Of course, it's about the wrong starting idea. We are truly unfair partners to those who are unfair to the idea and to the programme and we will always be disloyal partners to those who fail the joint programme based on which the partnership is based. The democratic opposition to Serbia gave up its programme, the Democratic opposition to Serbia gave up citizens of Serbia who voted on the coalition programme and in 2000 brought the coalition to power, deviating the programme from any obligation of one who is loyal to the idea and the programme to remain loyal to that group that gave up the programme. We can't be loyal to thieves, we can't be loyal to criminals, we can't be loyal to any organised criminal group, there's no need to warn, because I don't mean the Democratic opposition of Serbia, the citizens know it clearly, and we could never connect it, we can never be loyal to anyone who works at the expense of citizens. So today and earlier and in the future, we will be loyal to a programme that leads Serbia into a democratic future, and we will not build this future with non-democratic parties because of that we are not with you at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33721	Right on line, MP Bojan Pajtic, the basis for the replica is a direct mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33722	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that it is in parliamentary practice, namely in modern European, to form shadow governments, but a government in the shadow of the opposition. It is therefore grotesque that a party is formed that cannot take over power and will certainly not have the right to propose the prime minister, or mandate of the future government. So, the entire opposition in these modern parliamentary and European countries has the right to, or logically, propose a shadow government and to build it and to do something, unfortunately, your shadow government has not noticed that something is working, and it would be natural to do something and to have some activity. As regards respect for the original DOS programme, so-called who we listened to today, what the DSS did when it took responsibility for the military, when it took responsibility for the Ministry of Health in the Republic Government, when it took responsibility in the Vojvodina Assembly and took responsibility in local self-reliances - absolutely nothing and that is an indicator of who you are loyal to and what you are loyal to. Nor has anything been moved in the military, the criticisms we hear about the Republic government most often refer to the Ministry of Health where you first had a minister, and then G-17 plus and in that sense, we really don't need such partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33723	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, as a promoter. You're asking for a word as a pronoun? Here you go. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: Come on, Grandma. ) I give notice to MP Milki Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know the name of the gentleman from the Democratic Party who spoke, because he never spoke before, but I do know that the director of the Public Enterprise "Serbishum", on behalf of the promoter, of course I am coming out, not as representative of the SRS, for this is what Mrs. Verica Radeta has been authorized on this agenda point, most of the exposure has been a mixed topic. The gentleman spoke of the government, the results of some previous governments, this government, which is also the former government, just don't know it's the former. So when you're talking about exes, you know it's you, so just keep your mouth shut. The chairman didn't bring you back on the subject, so now I'm thinking whether I should start with that second item on the agenda, whether I should start talking about the effects of this government or wait for that Thursday to suggest it. I could go now, say, so maybe you guys split up, and I just have so much material to wait for you on Thursday, so let's not let the TV go, I won't mind if you're not here. Believe me, for that part of the agenda, I have at least 10 kilos of material, and I will patiently express everything that is put on the line for this government. I am most concerned that those who brought you to power are now threatening your sanctions because you are not working well enough with Carla del Ponte, or with The Hague tribunal. On the one hand, the government again organises a rally of police, unrecorded in the world, to protect one of the generals on the charge, Sreten Lukic, while at the same time chasing General Mladic after Topcider and Kostunica. It's simple to run out of your skin and wonder which country you live in and who runs this country! Here comes Agim Ceku, who slaps us two slaps, one slaps the Slovenians, because they don't treat us at all as a state or admit us, and the other slap this Holkeri who said nicely down there -- bring Agim Ceku back here, he's saluting him down here, reporting, as a general receives him, he's back to his country, so they're looking at it. And we what? Nothing. Is there any shame and shame in those who are at the head of this country because of all these events that are happening? It's about some former government, and I say you're former -- and it's true that in the last 15 years, the social gross product has been falling, that in the 1990s it's been 30%, so it's down to 10%, and it's known why: because of sanctions, blockades, the international community, because of wars in the environment, a huge number of refugees that we've had to receive and hire and feed and treat. All of this led to the fall of social gross product, but which is why this social gross product is now falling. Why gentlemen when it's the same international community that loves and supports you? What is it now? More donations. Any responsible government could be expected to have at least 15% growth with so many donations, and you have a 5% decline this year alone. You're in favour of, apparently, some process of liberalisation and what are we doing? Internal goods arrive, stoves arrive, refrigerators arrive, credit for these foreign stoves and refrigerators and close our factories. But we'll talk about it wider when it comes to the agenda. Today, this is on the agenda, it is not a clean photocopier, it is stealing votes, there are no more 126 MPs here in Parliament who are ready to support the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the photograph, Milan Markovic, president of the Palilula municipality and Aleksandra Joksimovic, deputy foreign minister, used to steal other people's identification cards to vote. What they say - if the goat lies, the horn doesn't lie. I didn't recognize myself earlier in those grandmothers, jinx, etc. I don't think you meant me. Therefore, gentlemen, if we want to get better, Serbia needs serious policy and serious politicians in power, who are determined to solve problems because of our future. Serbia needs a bold man at the post of president of the state who will co-operate with the world both the East and the West, rightly, protecting, above all, national and state interests. Serbia is a necessary man who will be able to protect our army, not to humiliate it as you humiliate it, to defend dignity and the military and police and Serbia, at this point, the president who will strictly control the government, provide Serbian citizens with parliamentary elections and give them a chance to choose a better life for themselves and for their children. We're going to do this again today in Chačka, tomorrow in Bor, the day after tomorrow in Kragujevac, and then in Zaječar and so on at all mythinses. Believe me, Mrs. Micic, when I mention it at the rally, and so far we've held it 17, the name of Natasha Micic, the people are just screaming, everyone just says, "Whoa!"
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33725	Right on line, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33726	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what my predecessor spoke of, can be very easily determined here in the third row. So I call on both the public and the cameras to determine that these two third-row positions, which are spoken of and which are photographed, and that photo we have had the opportunity to see over the last few months on several occasions, have no possibility of voting at all, since there is no one in which the MP card could be placed. There is no unit because it is intended for administrative staff in a situation where a large number of MPs are here, and MPs of the Democratic Party are the most important in this assembly, and they usually come. It was one of the situations where MPs of the Democratic Party had no place to put their own card, but they put a card in that parliamentary unit where it exists. So I call on the public, the cameras, the press to check that in these two places it is absolutely technically impossible to vote, because there is no parliamentary unit either.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33727	The word has been given by MP Zoran Angelkovic, followed by MP Milena Milosevic. MP Zoran Angelkovic is not here. National MP Bratoljub Janackovic. He's not here. ) National MP Branislav Grubaski, followed by National MP Milena Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33728	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, the Honorable President, is now probably the most suspicious of what this debate should serve. This is the exhaustion of your reasonable existence in this House and this people. Surely there is only one thing, that the goal is not the cultural dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, about what they have been doing these three years. Could it then happen, in this assembly, in this House, that the MP from this pay phone calls for a violent shift of power, and then says that he was brought with emotion. Of course it was emotional. He tried to control his mind for three years, and what he said the other day, that's what he really thinks. The government at all costs, even at the expense of possible bloodshed, past the law and democratic procedures. At all costs, apart from the people's will, the strange coalition, not only of red and black, but also of those drilling into democratic breasts, has united in Europe, faster and more honestly than this government. So what, with a coup? Is that democracy and those reforms they promise us, all thundering from small screens. It certainly bothers the president of this parliament, Mrs. Micic. Of course, when she, since she chaired this parliament, tried to make it a civilized environment and prevented the circus that tried to make her predecessor of parliament. Let's just remember what this Parliament looked like while it was chaired by Mrs. Micic's predecessor. It's an insult. Scandal scandal. All with the approval of the president at the time, so that this high house may be deposed. Didn't Milosevic come up with it himself? In such a Parliament, of course, half the law passed by this assembly, without which it could not be in Europe, if this is indeed our goal, should defile the people and the very notion of parliamentaryism, democracy and the centre of government and power elsewhere. If we think of it, now someone's surprised by this coalition created and gathered around an extremely destructive goal, to bring everyone down at all costs, regardless of the consequences. For a constructive idea, this coalition, of course, will have no majority, not now, and I hope not in the future. But there is no such thing as a progressive and rational goal. That is why only the destruction and evil can bring these forces together, those who, even now, have sworn in democracy, and those from the defeated criminal regime of Slobodan Milosevic. I guess I shouldn't explain why that regime was criminal. "Mrs. Micic should be slaughtered as one of the last dams of the coming evil." Proposers and those who support him should say clearly - carry with him isolation, sanctions, a wall towards the rest of the world, darkness, universal misery. What is not clear to the people who wish to destroy the power that has reached the elections? In one newspaper, these were the MPs who had the opportunity to see, a photograph was published in a warm conversation, at this very assembly session, a gentleman who would, with a coup against power and a gentleman who had once chaired this parliament. They're fine with living. Together, they aim to bring down all the advanced and democratic things that exist. Why don't they tell the voters and the citizens clearly what they're getting along so well about, how, then, so now? People don't need to be underestimated. He once said clearly what he was thinking, and he'll say it, and hopefully, in the next election, whenever there are. The marginal, non-democratic, non-civilization parties will send to history, although they don't belong there either. I'm just gonna say something for the end. What appears to me, my generation and my environment as the light motive of this session -- Mrs Natasa Micic, for a very simple reason, has finally put normal Serbia on the agenda, which the other cannot forgive her.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33729	The Right to Replica, the People's Messenger Dragan Marsican, and the People's Messenger Zarko Obradović, and the People's Messenger Petar Petrovic and the People's Messenger Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33730	The MP who provoked me to a replica is from a party that calls the Serbian Academy of Sciences "ANUS". So much for that stranger and so much for that MP. Whether the DSS wants to bring down the government of the Republic of Serbia -- it wants to. Whether Serbian citizens want to change the government of the Republic of Serbia -- they want to. If you don't think they want you to go to early elections, then you'll get an answer from a Serbian citizen. If you thought of it the way you throw it, you'd have done it already. The collapse of the government of the Republic of Serbia will not be carried out by any coalition, nor can the coalition bring down the government of the Republic of Serbia. It will be torn down by the elections, brought down by citizens of Serbia, as in all democratic states. There's the beginning and the end of your whole story. An MP who calls the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts "ANUSOM", defending Natasa Micic, as the last dam of the coming evil, has said a lie, I hope fully aware, because I do not believe that unconscious people are sitting in this assembly, which is that there are any coalitions in this assembly, when it comes to voting non-trust with the government of the Republic of Serbia. By definition, we know what coalitions are. Coalitions can be pre-election, i.e. electoral -- agreement on a joint entry into the elections. So was the DOS coalition. The coalitions can be after an election -- an agreement, a dispute over joint exercise of power. The coalition isn't when you've replaced the previous president of the assembly, along with the Soviets, who you're talking about so uglyly today. It's not a coalition, it's a coincidence of opinion on one issue that's on the agenda. The coalition is not when DOS with the National Socialist Party, Branislav Ivkovic, votes the budget. It is only a fact that says that on one issue these two parties have found themselves in this congregation, etc. So, when a question is raised in this National Assembly, such as the Kosovo and Metohija issue, the Declarations, then all the political parties who believe such a declaration should be brought, so it is not the coalition of DOS, the SSJ, the SRS and the DSS. God forbid it's the coalition, first of all, I think because of DOS and DSS, but it's a responsibility to the state that all MPs of all political parties feel on one issue and in an appropriate way express it through a vote. (President: three minutes. ) Therefore, if you think there is a coalition of anyone, for the DSS, there is nothing to worry about, as there is no coalition and trust of the DSS in those in which Serbian citizens have lost confidence -- in the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33731	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, right to the replica - mentioning Branislav Grubački's speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33732	I went out to replicate my previous colleague, the MP from the DOS, about the words he said about the time before the DOS. He used the expressions "the criminal regime of Slobodan Milosevic", "disgusted the Assembly", etc. Fellow MPs, it is obvious that this debate on the responsibility of Natasha Micic for what he is doing as president of the National Assembly is being transferred to a political field. If the debate has spread, so has DOS MPs, as they have voted to discuss this matter for 10 hours, only you forget it. The essence of the story, which is trying to knowingly push itself into another plan, is that Mrs Micic was not the speaker of Parliament, nor was she the first among the equals, but was the spokesman of DOS. I do not dispute, but it must be said and it must be known that there was a theft in this parliament during the vote. It was stolen during the vote of the Law on Lustration, in the election of the governor of the National Bank, during the withdrawal of the mandate of the SPS and other parliamentary groups, the function of the National Assembly president was misused, the anti-constitutional situation was imposed, etc. It's all facts. Not to mention these, seemingly small things related to the additional local elections and some marifettelucs just to comply with DOS laws, as they were. When it comes to the "criminal regime", on what grounds did you conclude? Based on what? Last year we discussed the State Anti-Organised Crime Act, and then I said and I stay on it -- during the 10 years of government, unfortunately, 10 or 12 murders were unexplained, and during DOS, for a year and a half there were 15. That's what Minsitar Mihajlovic said. Well, is this regime then criminally, did this regime order the murder of these people? I don't know what kind of a normal messenger can pronounce. The task of the state is to expose all crimes, but it is absolutely unacceptable to any qualification. We know, yes, you kidnapped Slobodan Milosevic and you did in The Hague. Do you think that's the end of the story? It's not! You kidnapped an anti-constitutional man and extradited him to The Hague and now you're talking about these generals, command responsibility, etc. You're agreeing with Carla del Ponte on the contents of the Hague indictments, about who's to be extradited. But the point of the whole story -- you have to file accounts for what you're doing. If you'd listened to your leaders, you'd have understood one sentence: it had to be a draw, so to speak, this is a state found, and this is what we've done. You've been avoiding each other, moving the field of stories over and over again for a while. When the government is on the agenda, and it's either today or tomorrow, then you'll see plenty, but plenty of data that say that this government is catastrophic. You've divided Serbia, you've divided the citizens, you've sold everything and everything and, unfortunately, you're filling your pockets. You care about Serbia as much as you do about last year's snow, but the elections are there, so you'll see the act of your policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33733	The right to replicate MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Soviet Parliament's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33734	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not surprised when MPs from some relevant political parties, recognised before and now, will likely be recognised in future elections, come out to speak from this pay phone. Some minor parties, some representatives of the minor parties who will surely be extinguished after the next election, unless they marry someone again and enter the coalition to win that parliamentary mandate, come out here and talk about the man who is emoted, who is a Serbian nationalist, and we are therefore proud that we are Serbian nationalists, that we love our people and that we are fighting for our people with the same strength that they will fight for another people who live with us in Serbia and wants to respect the Constitution and the law of this country. Therefore, sir, my dear esteemed colleague, come out once as a representative of this party to which you belong, and believe me, I don't know which party you belong, because you are so small that you can't be recognized either in Vojvodina, and where in central or all of Serbia, go to elections once, go out and try the will of the people, and then talk about your colleagues whether they are emotional and whether they are nationalists etc. For your information, dear esteemed colleague, Mr Markovic has singled out so much of his resources and helped the people of Pomoravlje and beyond, it has been proven and shown. He has given so much money to help the Serb people refugees from Krajina, refugees from Bosnia, refugees from Kosovo and Metohija as you will never see in your life. Therefore, do not mention him and say that he has called for a coup. He knows very well what he said in his appearance of emotion, when he heard and when he came here from Jagodina to Belgrade. Otherwise, every day he comes from Jagodina to Belgrade with his car to the assembly meeting. So, I take what he heard, I repeat, that he who killed the Serbs was freed, one by one. What happens to the Serbian economy, with Serbian workers and not counting. I have one more thing to tell you -- don't you pick up the political points and let the newspaper write that some Grubački said something about Dragan Markovic, you'll only be known for it. Let the people tell us tomorrow at the election how we're going to go through and what we're going to do. For your information, on TV "Belami" in Nis, which looks at over two million viewers, Dragan Markovic - Palma won other statements. And now I'm a little emotional, because as a Serbian nationalist, which I'm proud of, they insult things like that. We have defended, we will defend, and we will always defend the Serbian people, wherever they may be, unlike you who will persecute all of you in order to entangle yourself with those who brought you into power.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33735	The word has the People's MP Veric Radet, the authorised representative, the SRS parliamentary group, a replica to the presentation of MP Branislav Grubaski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33736	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has never advocated violent destruction of power. Taking over power at all costs, we saw October 5, 2000. On October 5th, the Federal Assembly was set on fire, on October 5th, a state television set on fire, on October 5th lynched people in front of television, and afterwards the president of the party whose member brought out everything and everything here, mixed the grandmothers and frogs, mixed the coalitions, mixed the promoters, downloaded the board of Serbian Radio-Television and trampled in front of TV cameras. That, gentlemen, is your patriotism. The gentleman in his discussion says that destruction and evil are the possible resolution of Natasha Micic from the post of Parliament's president. That's outrageous. Are we, MPs, because we are using our legitimate right, because we have applied for the resolution of the President of Parliament who daily and persistently violates the Rules of Procedure, the laws and the Constitution, is that destruction and evil, as this gentleman said earlier. As far as the coalitions are concerned, sir, the SRS is not with anyone in the coalition. Our proposal to resolve Ms Natasa Micic was supported by SPS and SNS MPs. The discussion was also supported by the DSS and the Soviet Union MPs, and in the vote, you will see who else supports this initiative. You are a typical example, your client, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, is a typical example of non-discipial coalitions. You're in the DOS coalition. When the concession law was on the agenda here, when Mr. Canak was not satisfied with the government's proposal and the concessions solutions, he then voted against it, or you voted against the government's proposal, so Mr. Canak told Mr. Zivkovic that the condition for him to vote for the law is that Tomislav Nikolic be excluded from this parliament's work. A month after the alleged incident, Tomislav Nikolic has been excluded from the work of this parliament, and has been excluded by Mrs Natasa Micic, who is not only a spokesman for DOS, but is even worse and worse still, she is at this table a spokesman for the Serbian government, and what in no way should the President of Parliament allow himself to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33737	The word is a folk letter from Milena Milosevic, followed by the National Messenger Milan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33738	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of this distinguished Parliament, today we are discussing the SRS' request for Mrs Natasha Micic's replacement. In fact, the fundamental theme that has been discussed here all these days, which is the two Serbias who today and on this agenda, two policies one of which symbolizes a policy of the former regime that lasted ten years, until October 5th, and DOS policy, the Democratic Opposition of Serbia after October 5th, which is trying in the hard and difficult process of reform and changing the system and introducing a democratic order to shape each other Serbia. We've gotten into all this, just aware of the difficulties and the problems we're going to face with enough courage and to endure. That is exactly the idea that has been promoted and defended consistently, solely by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, our President Natasa Micic. That's why I'm kind of declassified to defend something that the whole of Serbia should be proud of, but I can't resist not going back ten years and seeing who those who suggest are, in fact, that Natasa Micic is being removed from this place. These are the policy holders in Serbia by October 5th who, let's remember, as everyone says, our people have a short memory, and it turns out on October 5th that's not exactly the case. Let's remind ourselves again: that's the policy that stole this nation's old foreign currency savings, so she stole their salaries, stole their pensions, stole even mother and child benefits. This government is trying to correct all of this and restores what you have been stealing for ten years as a symbol of your policy that needs to protect the interests of the Serbian people, and in fact it protects its interests as we know it, and of course we will talk a lot more about it. They represent the policy that brought us into wars, that is, wars that we did not participate in. The wars in which we signed Erdutskui Dayton and Kumanov's capitulation in ten years. You told the people you won. The people, who escaped from their estates, from their houses and apartments, were actually supposed to feel victorious. Unlike those who led that policy to the people, you have won, we will provide you with collective centres, and in that time we have increased our living space measured by arism and arism. When we talk about all this, we cannot help but remind ourselves that before our delegation goes to Vienna, the prime minister of our government has called on all representatives of all parties, both the authorities and the opposition, to agree together on our performance, and how it will properly protect the interests of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the entire space within a single Serbia. As a representative, Toma Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party, when he refused to participate in those talks, said, "No, you bring back the magistrate to me, and only then can we talk about Kosovo and Metohija." A measure of his patriotism, concerns for the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and for the state of Serbia is measured by the magistrate, the business space, the head office of the SRS. Let's see who supports this policy that we're discussing today. We have a party from the other day, the G17 Plus party, which, at the same time as our delegation in Vienna negotiates the fate of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, at the same time, but elsewhere, in the same city but elsewhere, with another international organisation, is negotiating the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, it is not a topic in this parliament, it is not a topic for the media, but a statement that for Serbia it is cheaper to defeat a policy that should represent the country's national state interests. They didn't say how cheap it was, they just said it was cheap. On the other hand, we have an independent union, which is very active. For ten years, they were active as guardians of the union and social peace regime of Milosevic. The first time we saw them was when poor workers without a job, for a sandwich, brought to Belgrade in December 1996 for countermitting. Whether this activity has resulted in a successful or unsuccessful gathering of the working people and citizens of Serbia on the streets of Belgrade, evaluate yourself. The unions have been loud lately. Says the pharmaceutical union and Serbia's medics. A union led by an SPS official, which provides good services to foreigners from yesterday - G17 plus. Co-operation is amazing and judge for yourself how the union works. There is much more we could talk about, much to talk about, and much to mention, but what has been tried in this assembly since October 5th, or January, for these two and a half years tried to establish, has been established as much as you have allowed. That mess, that savagery, that's something that represents you. On the other hand, we had Natasa Micic, who defended the assets on October 5th and the establishment of a democratic atmosphere in this parliament. She appears to be fragile, essentially extremely strong and bold, because she needed it before verbal and physical harassment here. You'll be recognized in one or the other. That's why Natasa Micic has more power than all the weapons in her hands, when she sits behind this pay phone, and that's the Rules of Procedure that she certainly won't give up in the future, because she defends the fluids we fought for, and no matter how much you try to put it back, she can't, gentlemen, we've plotted the course and you'll follow us. He's not coming back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33739	The right to replicate the People's MP Verica Radeta, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Replication to the presentation of the previous speaker and the right to reply, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33740	The first fighters here on October 5th today are all and everything they can say. I don't just know why they forgot how they arrested the generals, and how they are now protecting their General Lukic, of course, against General Lukic and any general and any Serbian citizen, the Serbian Radical Party is absolutely against any Serbian citizen going to The Hague. The lady just said a series of lies here. She said Mr. Toma Nikolic has conditioned a conversation on Kosovo with our return, with the return of the magistrate to the SRS. It is not true that this was the reason why Toma Nikolic did not speak to Prime Minister Zivkovic. Mr. Toma Nikolic did not talk to Zivkovic because the Serbian government played the previous resolution and the Declaration that this would happen with this Declaration, which was brought last in line with these three and the SRS voted in favour of the declaration as it had voted for both the Declaration and the Resolution, only to avoid being singled out and when it comes to the interest, the general interest of the state and the general interest of the Serbian citizens. We didn't believe you then that you'd respect what we all adopted and you showed very quickly that there was nothing of it, that it was just an empty letter on paper. As for the lease of business space, Mr. Toma Nikolic couldn't have that conversation or any other condition by returning that business space, because we are still in that business space and we will be and we won't be able to return it. We may be moving out of the Square of Victory the day the Democratic Party moved out of the Crown Street to Belgrade, which was leased under the same conditions as the Square of Victory in Zemun. As for the lady who spoke earlier, I must say for the public that she is the president of a municipality, a Belgrade municipality, and that is the only municipality in Serbia, which registers business space as a public income and rents a business space through the Republic Public Revenue Administration. Gentlemen, all of you who spoke here today have said that you are not afraid of choices, you are afraid to put to the vote a motion to resolve Natasha Micic, let alone be afraid of choices. Give the elections, the citizens of Serbia will say who the patriots are and who they are not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33741	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Did you ask for a word? Replication to the presentation of the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33742	Yes, I must confess on behalf of the SPS that our concept of Serbia differs from what the DOS is doing. We're against this robbery privatisation, which is being conducted! Yes, we are against the sale of factories for three euros, we are against government officials working with the Surinian and Zemun clan! Yes, we're against it! Yes, we are to help the Serbian people beyond Drina. Yes, we were in favour of the Republika Srpska Krajina and Serbs in Bosnia having political assistance. Yeah, we did all that. That's what makes us different. Yes, we're in favor of the Constitution. Yeah, we're gonna respect the law. Yeah, we're gonna get thieves punished! Yes, we're not to find anyone guilty until he's proved it! Is it possible for a 32-year-old man with a high school as a government official to hold press conferences in the government and have property of four to five million euros?- I'm sorry. With high school, 32 years old?- I'm sorry. The president of several boards of directors and the famous expert on financial matters. That's impossible, and that's why you're going down. As for health care, we don't know the gentleman, but we support health care workers' demands because huge funds have entered Serbia as an alleged donation to health care, even mentioning 265m euros or 16.5 billion. Where are these funds invested? Of course, we support healthcare professionals, because there was no investment in equipment and personnel. Citizens are objectively forced to raise huge resources. The health care workers' position is bad. Yeah, that's right. The prices of drugs are up. That's what you did. There's no reform! For you, the reform comes down to this: to fire politically inadequate people, to set up their own people, to set up informants. Just remember how much you have replaced the director of health homes and health institutions in Serbia. Remember how many people you fired just to bring your people in, not because of political belongings, because it doesn't even have the slightest meaning, but to bring those people in. Now you're talking about reform. The reform for you is to enter institutions, fill pockets and leave Serbia.- I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33743	The word has been made by MP Bojan Pajtic, a replica to the presentation of the previous speaker. The basis is the direct mention of Bojan Pajtic's name by the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33744	Dear counterpart Obradovic is counting on general public amnesia in Serbia, on the general amnesia of MPs in Serbia. Who invented the Zemun and Surcin clan? Who filled the National Security Service with criminals? Who built the militia units in this country? Who invented Jezda and Dafina? Who invented the monopoly on imports and exports? Whose Prime Minister had at the same time a company that had a monopoly on imports and on exports of wheat? Who invented buying foreign exchanges on a regular course and sold those foreign exchanges six times more expensive? Who invented the greatest hyperinflation in history? What time did this happen? What do you think it's possible, after all, to make a Swiss economy here? It's true that there's a flaw, it's true that there are now, that there are and there will be always and always in every regime. [[Applause in the O.R.]] It is true that there will always be someone who will sin and who will commit crimes. During that term, it is our duty to condemn such cases, to find them, to initiate proceedings by the public prosecutor's office, for the courts to do what is in accordance with their legal jurisdiction. The biggest remark, go wherever you want to go to Serbia and you'll hear it, is that this authority has not arrested those who have violated the laws in the previous regime - sending out Mirko Marjanovic, of all the notorious ministers who have abused their powers, who have passed the laws and who have allowed us to have 16 legal grounds for obtaining extra profit, which we had to resuscitate through extraprofits, and it didn't work out completely either. [[Applause in O.R.]] These are our greatest faults and our shortcomings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33745	People's MP, this was a replica of your exposure, and you want to break the Rules of Procedure. (He speaks to the People's Messenger, Zarko Obradovic. ) Are you looking for a word on this basis - a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradović - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33746	Mr. Pajtic, I think the public of Serbia is curious to hear, and you won't say that, which of your high-ranking state officials went to Schillerovo. Last year we had a police minister here, he claimed that there was all official data on the existence of criminal groups. Why isn't something done about it? What are you nagging us? You object to us your inadequacies, and in order to stutter things. You must explain to Serbia the connections that exist between one and the other. You must explain to Serbia what is missing from that report by the Koraæ Commission and those charges.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33747	People's MP, you abuse the right of the president of the parliamentary group to report upon violation of the Rules of Procedure. You and I know you don't have the right to a replica because you've caused the replica. You've been given a word to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Milan Milosavljevic, but I see that it is also about the application of the right of the promoter. So, the word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic - the right to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33748	Dear colleagues, we keep coming out of the subject, but I don't mind that. I'd like to offer those who speak of crime: please, let's arrest us. Why haven't you arrested us and we've been at your disposal for three years? We were in power, we were ministers, so for all the malfeasances, for all the thefts, for all the embezzlements, why don't you arrest us to this day, but threaten us now that you don't have time to arrest us anymore? It's over. We're gonna arrest you now. Now we're entering the government. [[Applause in the O.R.]] Now we're getting into the paperwork. Now we're finding evidence. In our ranks, it's certain there won't be a police minister who'll say three or four times that he'll resign if it's this or that, so he won't do it. Gentlemen, you didn't even want to form a survey board to determine under what circumstances your party president, the prime minister, died. Who better to do this than Parliament, the Assembly Commission? Maybe it'll be better done by Stepac and he never announced what he came up with? Now he says hello to one of the Burger brothers and tells another story. Who are you talking about? Criminals are in power, in government, gentlemen! You can't wash from that. That's what the people know. Your time has passed. There is no vengefulness, but whoever committed the crime, starting with Covic, who was proven to have taken money from the Jazda, and beyond. That guy's got to go to jail. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33749	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic used the right of the promoter. I ask the MPs to follow the Assembly's meeting and not to receive from their benches. National MP Bojan Pajtic has the right to reply to a message from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33750	The Honorable Chairman, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, is true that the difference between you and us is that you arrested us and we didn't arrest you. That's not controversial. We were arrested. We've seen what your detentions and your prisons look like. They were political characters. When I was speaking from this pay phone, I never generalized things. I never called angro all those who were in the governments, who were in parliament, but only those who committed crimes. I claim that there are crimes in every regime, but only in the previous regime was the doing of crimes legally covered and institutionalised, only then could the Prime Minister have a monopoly on imports and exports, and only then could it be bought according to the official course - foreign exchange - and sold on an unofficial course. That's what makes the difference between you and us. You can see the difference between you and us and the fact that you're inviting us to arrest you, and you're asking why we didn't arrest you. We don't arrest. That's the difference between you and me. The prosecution initiates proceedings, courts and proceedings prosecute, and then, after a judicial verdict, someone goes to prison or gets released from prison. [[Applause]] Never again in Serbia, from one place to another, will a political centre determine who will be arrested and who will not be arrested. And that's the difference between you and us, too. Don't talk to us, don't ask us, don't ask political parties to arrest anyone. Organs, courts, prosecutions, and everyone else functions, more or less, effectively. Our obligation, as Parliament, as our positions and as your opposition, is to enable our proposals and our decisions to be effective or to disable the efficient work of those bodies. But it will never again be a matter of political decision, despite your hopes and expectations, you will never again be in such a position. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33751	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic - a replica based on the mention of the name in the presentation which was a replica to its presentation as a promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33752	Mr. Pitytic, you've arrested 12,000 people!- I'm sorry. It was a political decision in the "Sabbe" action. You let them all go after a while. The number has narrowed down to some 44, and perhaps 10 of which you will condemn, and the question is whether you will condemn the real crimes you should prosecute them for. So I don't know what you're talking about. There was no political decision here, nor was there any political threat that you would be convicted. It is likely that you have not committed any crimes in particular. But as for all the affairs that were coming out of the government, there are papers and it's an indestructible clue. These people will have to answer for that crime. I just want to tell you that we were never criminals, that's what you confirmed, and that's a fact. So whoever the criminal is, he's got to go to jail, he can't protect himself, and we'll never cooperate with criminals, nor will we seek the support of a criminal for anything. You unfortunately failed to break away from criminals after 5 October who helped you to come to power, that's your problem that also resulted in the killing of the prime minister, but that's what you're going to have to wear as a burden on your back and we can't do anything about it. Therefore, the courts should do their job, the prosecutions too, but not such a prosecutor as you have now, a political like, not such judges as you have only politically similar - you have, I see who you are promoting and who you are sending to these special courts now, which are judges, and we will only talk about it when the time comes, who are presidents and members of the Constitutional Court, is also morally-politically similar, and that is what we would never do, because we strictly advocate the respect of the institutions and the separation of judicial, legislative and executive authorities and that no one, of course, is involved in the killing of Zoran Djindjic, if we do not have Koraćev Report. Who can not doubt? We all suspect, why do you allow this suspicion to exist, why not state the facts you've come to?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33753	I am fixing a break of up to 15.00 hours and in the afternoon part of the session, the first one registered for the word is MP Milan Milosavljevic. Thank you. [[After break - 15.55]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're continuing the session in the afternoon and I'm asking you to determine if we have the quorum needed to work. Here you go. I ask all the MPs in the National Assembly building to come to the session hall to have the quorum needed to work. I find that we have the quorum needed to work (15.50 hours). ) The first registered speaker is MP Milan Milosavljevic, and after that, MP Borislav Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33755	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm passing through the city a moment ago and I'm getting into the eyes of one of the facades that we all remember very well from some of the previous times, here's Mr. Paja probably noticed the same thing. Namely, one of the facades says "it's cracked", we remember all very well in 1996 and 2000 when one organisation that was very active at the time in the destruction of Slobodan Milosevic's regime, I suppose, when they were written by the façades of buildings, among other things, and the graphite, "it's crack". We know very well who this graph is referring to, but this graph is very current and day-to-day. We have a senior presidential candidate who has twice "snare" and that is the basic reason why this debate has taken place today, panic and fear in the ranks of Serbia's strongest party that their leader "does not crack" and the third time. You can imagine how paranoid that is in the heads of his followers to have their leader crack for the third time. Believe me, gentlemen, it is time to really call things a real name and today we say here from this pay phone that the main reason for the debate on the trust of Natasa Micic, the president of the Serbian Parliament and the launch of trust with the government of the Republic of Serbia is just panicking fear and paranoia with the largest party in Serbia not to "break" and for the third time. What is happening today, here, we are also witnessing in this room, at 3:30 p.m., there were 42 MPs of the Democratic Party, which I managed to count and there were seven messengers of the largest party in Serbia, whose leader was twice "pillar". They initiated, of course, with the Serbian Radical Party this whole story and indeed the only reason and this is an indicator, a fundamental indicator that they are afraid of everything that awaits them, to fear their political death, because the victory of Dragoljub Micunovic in the upcoming elections means the political death of the largest party in Serbia, means that they will crack after their leader and for the third time. You know how, I get Serbian radicals, I'll talk about you too, you won't get away this time, but it's a great honor for you. You've defined yourself to be one solid opposition party and you're very clear in this whole story, and there's nothing more or less for you to resent, I just don't know why you haven't yet learned to learn from defeat some kind of science and some kind of lesson. Okay, I appreciate that, too, run for all possible elections, that's the job of the parliamentary party, political parties, above all, and whether you'll be parliamentary, we'll see, you'll probably have, there's something left of your infrastructure, so you'll probably cross that 5% censorship, but I'm really wondering who else besides you and DOS, DOS parties will cross that censorship. It is this fear that I mention all the time from this pay phone, the reason the biggest party in Serbia has been crying for months and seeking elections, calling elections -- when they get presidential elections, they don't need presidential elections. Tomorrow, when we call the parliamentary elections, they won't be good at parliamentary elections either, because something won't work out for them, so they'll ask for something else. I guess if their leader were to run for chief of the house council, or whatever it's called, he'd probably ask to change the statute of the house council, because it's a question of whether he'd be elected, so he needs to adapt to his conditions and what he can do. There are 20 days left until the election and there are 20 days left of political life for Serbia's largest party. This is the political death robber of Serbia's largest party. It is clear to them very well that they are a politically dead option after winning Dragoljub Micunovic's presidential election. It's a very serious reason, and I really don't want to be in their skin -- they're really in defenseless grapes, and I don't envy them for the role they're in right now. I absolutely understand their paranoia, but paranoia is definitely a bad friend in politics. That's what you'll see in this election. And for days I can't get an impression whenever Mr. Martian or Mr. Mihaylov comes out for this pay phone, but at the same time I have pictures in front of me, you remember all those "mapets" who are from those galleries upstairs most of something unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33756	People's MP, please, I ask all the MPs of the people to listen with respect to the speaker, and you MPs, by respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to keep an eye on the language used for the speaker. This is a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33757	I'm really sorry if I offended someone, but it's been a really long time since one of the favorite shows kids and adults have seen and I really don't see anything offensive in mentioning that favorite series of us, not just us, but the whole world. I believe that this behavior, the people mentioned earlier, who most often go out for this pay phone, just because they asked for a debate on this topic, got a debate on this subject -- last Thursday afternoon the Democratic Party provides a quorum for the beginning of the session. Today, the Democratic Party is providing a quorum for the start of this session. They gentlemen have been given a debate on this subject, and they don't know what to do with it. They got a chance to tear down the President of Parliament, and they don't know what to do with it. They got a chance to tear down the government, and they don't know what to do with it. That's why at the beginning of this story today I said "they broke." They simply don't have enough political strength to and what they're given on the plate -- and that's why it's the paranoia, and that's why it's happening, here, for days in the Assembly, what's going on. I just said that the radicals were more politically clear to me. They are the people who have defined themselves to be the opposition, participate bravely in all the elections, have not learned any lessons from so far's defeats. All right, that's their thing, that's their policy and that's their story and they're pushing that story of theirs, but they're always absolutely recognizable at all times as one significant or less significant opposition party with which to always count. The main problem is that even when they got radicals, here's a chance to bring down the President of Parliament and the Republic government, they can't take advantage of it either. Gordana Pop-Lazic came out last Tuesday and started reading stenograms, clock or two or whatever. That looked like a monodrama. It could have been interesting, but politically unproductive. It's not my place to teach you what's politically productive for you. You've been in politics for a long time, and you should know, on the other hand, it was very productive for Mr. Micunovic's campaign. Very productive for him. Mrs. Pop-Lazic read some stenograms and those who went into this debate with the basic goal and the basic reason for Mrs. Natasa Micic's shift are also transferring that she was vulgar, rough or I don't know what you were already saying about her from this chair behind me. I would just like to remind you, I will use the stenographic notes to remind you of a few events from our recent past from this call to Parliament, so I will quote you: "Respectful address" because it was one of the basic reasons and motives for the replacement of Natasha Micic, because she did not address Serbian Radical Party MPs with respect. Otherwise, members of the parliamentary group who applied for the resolution of the president of the Serbian Parliament say in a few examples, I quote: "According to the throwout and some unarticulated voices, some are probably visiting the zoo where they draw inspiration for torture," said 27 February 2001 after the speaker. I quote, one of the signatories of the Natasa Micic shift petition. He says one of the signatories, "I'd like to ask you to hang out in the stables." I quote still one of the signatories of this petition: "You're a gay party, bastards and whores." I quote still one of the signatories of the Natasa Micic's shift petition, which says, "You're not ashamed of yourself, you cattle one," on January 22, 2002. I quote still one of the signatories: "March, you bastard." We kicked that bastard out of our party two years ago. July 9, 2001, if it's important. On March 28, 2001, the esteemed professor of Belgrade's University, "Ua old bastard, glamoured you for God's sake." These are all quotes from the petition for Mrs. Natasa Micic's shift, which transfers that she was rude and ossion and vulgar from this chair behind me. There are examples of mutual concern and respect between then-President Natasa Micic's president and the same recently mentioned petition signatories and the motion to replace Mrs. Natasa Micic. I quote further: "How stupid you are, how your mother gave birth to you so stupidly," sent to the former president of the Serbian Parliament by the signatories of the shift initiative. The same president of the Serbian Parliament is now with you in this whole story, my dear gentlemen radicals. I don't know, maybe the masochist man, maybe he liked that you've been doing to him all these years as he chaired the Republic Parliament, but I'm just talking about how much this parliament is respected by the signatories of Ms. Natasa Micic's shift initiative, which you are referring to. I quote, "In the neighborhood, I'm called evil beef until June." It can also be applied to those intruders that are heard behind our backs. It's clear who's being referred to. That's when Mr. Martian sat behind our backs. As said on 1 October 2001. "From now on, I will address the chairman as a court nut," said October 2, 2001, also one of the signatories of the Natasa Micic shift initiative. "You are a smudge," the chairman was told, then to the president of the Serbian Parliament on 22 November 2001 by one of the signatories of this initiative. It is also interesting to care about some other aspects of the former president's personality, which was definitely for the respect. In addition to the intervention and the mention of such a gallery, its personal libraries, there are mentioned some chihuahuas, balantines, cauldrons, Johnny Walkers, and I don't know which characters, and from the pay phone you heard the following, quote: "You have to leave your anxiety at the door. Perhaps today the black cat Vojislav Kostunica scared your white mice, so you are nervous about it," said October 2, 2001. The same, then president of the Serbian Parliament, did not remain in debt to those who honored him with such praises and nicknames. He replied to their attention and kindness, which he was richly obsessed with, as of February 27th 2001, with: "Dear lady, you are an example of what should disappear from Serbia's political scene." I guess this was about one of the ladies sitting in the third row. Now you are together in this whole story about the destruction of Natasha Micic. Love is truly a miracle. On the 20th of April 2001, "Sir, you've been cheering up this rally for six minutes, embarrassing this gathering." [[Laughter and applause in the O.R.]] "Parliament is not a circus, although there is a circus in it," as said on 30 May 2001. "I take your word for it, for insolence and insolence", June 11, 2001. "You represent the shame and shame of this parliament, sir," the President of Parliament was quoted as saying on October 2, 2001. There is much more, but much is not disputed in this parliament, it is definitely, as it is not disputed today in October 2003, because there is a new coalition at all, and I cannot understand at all that it can look like: the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Party of Serbian Unity, the Socialist Party of Serbia, some new political parties that did not exist at the time of the 2000 elections, and now they are some kind of parliamentary parties. This is indeed one miracle, which is probably happening only in Serbia, thanks to many of the MPs sitting here, in our ranks. I wouldn't quote anymore, and there's a lot more to it. I'm getting a little sick of this amount of rudeness that's been said for this pay phone. I'm really, really sick of remembering all this. Who cares about that is also in the books of the MPs of the DOS. One thing is good, in this whole debate, is that this debate definitely sends a clear message to voters, citizens of Serbia. He sends them, for the first time, an opportunity to choose, to plead, to define themselves. In 1996, citizens voted "against" in 40 cities and 2000 in all of Serbia. The citizens voted against that regime that is a distant past and that we all want to forget. This year will vote, already in the presidential elections, "yes", between Serbia's two options. They will vote between one option, represented by Natasa Micic and other options represented by Gordana Pop-Lazic. On November 16th, the people will vote and will have the opportunity to choose between one option represented by Boza Djelic and other options represented by Dejan Mihajlov. On November 16th this year, Serbian citizens will have the opportunity to choose between the options they represent, for example Goran Pitic and the options represented by Dragan Marsican. On November 16th, Serbian citizens will finally have the opportunity to choose between Serbia represented by Dragoljub Micunovic and Serbia represented by Tomislav Nikolic. Finally, I speak to the citizens of Nis, because I come from Nis. Finally, the citizens of Nisa will have the opportunity to choose between the options represented by Goran Ciric and the options represented by Mr Adzic, who escaped from this pay phone from this assembly six months ago, when counterguarantees were to be voted on to give Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade a loan from the European Community for Reconstruction and Development. The election between Slobodan Adzic, who was then vice-president of the City Assembly, is the second place in town and Goran Ciric, mayor, or president of the City Assembly. [[Applause in the O.R.]] It is a choice that is being sent from this assembly today, as well as a message sent from this Assembly today to citizens and voters of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33758	The People's MP Dragan Marsican, mentioned directly, then, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, MP Natasa Jovanovic, and mentioning the party's MP Dejan Mihajlov, as well as the MP of the People, Verica Radet, on the basis of the party's mention. That would have ended the circle of replicas. The MP who raises his hand is not mentioned in the presentation of MP Milan Milosavljevic, so he should address the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in the part in which it speaks of who has the right to reply in case any of the MPs in the speech challenge the replica. Ambassador, I'm sorry to keep you waiting, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33759	The problem is indeed the Democratic Party's MPs that I am seeing today, they are not speaking out of their heads. Since there's been a lot of replicas today, let's see how they work. Every morning or every other morning from the Information Service headquarters, the students of Baby Popovic send one briefing to all those faxes and e-mails to the municipal boards and there write what they should say that day. Then there are these thesiss that we are constantly listening to today, which no smart man really can accept. This repeats, repeatedly, about some of the non-existent coalitions, about some plots against the democratic authority that implements successful reforms in Serbia. The problem is, especially here caused by my predecessor's appearance, is that, by dealing with politics, very often, I was in Nis and I became aware of the immeasurable intelligence of people living in that area. It's just amazing that there was no other MP from that town than the one who just showed up here at the pay phone. How I once told his fellow citizen, and told the prime minister, as if to some representatives, not by them, the number expressed by ILj coincided with the number expressed in centimeters of waist size. It's an insult to the city they come from. As for the presidential elections, it will indeed be elected, here and now, between the two political options, two main candidates, both representing political options that are unacceptable, majority, for Serbian citizens. That's what the election's gonna show you. In fact, these elections are not going to work first, because you don't think someone is going to convince you that they represent anything, at this point, after a year of illegal and unconstitutional postponement of the election, which they could and should have meant something and which, which should have meant something to Serbia to bring the president, and they chose the president, and you all know very well who that president is. Indeed, in these elections you have two candidates, where one, at least consistently, represents one policy, with which I disagree and which has shown its results in 2000, but who paid the political price in the citizens' elections, not us who can think about any policy we want. Another candidate, completely inconsistencies, as a candidate for another destructive policy, which Serbia's citizens will definitely not, indeed, try, completely inconsistencies, on the other hand, to be fenced from this coalition policy, in every way, and it speaks of fighting corruption, and here its MPs are voting against the law on conflict of interest, and it says that they will fight crime, and its authority is responsible for criminalising society, etc. So, let go of those morning briefings, torture your head a little bit, the citizens of Serbia have thought twice about it, and finally give these elections that you mention here as a court of citizens about this and any future government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33760	I ask the People's Messengers to be quiet and listen to what I have to say at the request of the People's MP about seeking a replica. The MP who caused the replica has no right to a replica, whether or not it was mentioned by name. You have no right to a replica. (Milosovljevic: He misread some of the things I was saying. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by Natasa Jovanovic. Please, MPs, in cases where you feel you know what to do in the Rules of Procedure to remember that what you have to do, it is that in silence, with respect you listen to both the speaker and the chairman. All other decisions will be heard and you will have the right to call them a violation of the Rules of Procedure and to call the Chairman to account. This is inadmissible, as we behave in the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33761	Dear colleagues, the People's MP of the Democratic Party whom I, I admit, for the first time see, I could really embarrass myself somewhere on the street that I don't call a man a good day, because I've never seen him in Parliament, and I haven't even seen him at this pay phone, he's put something out at the expense of the promoter that I have to, in some way, defend. First, if we'd read the stenograms that were pretty tiring, that's true, that reading lasted half an hour. I, with my reasons, made an apology to you, as well as to the MPs, as well as to those who follow the meetings of the National Assembly next to their TV audiences, and my intention was to "imagely prove the situation in Parliament" and all that we, as opposition MPs, were experiencing. I, of course, was quite fair on that occasion, which would be said in the sport and instructions of the names and last names of those who spoke in the stenogram and caused "eventually" conflict situations and what Natasa Micicic said and what some of the MPs said. And the gentleman who spoke in favour of the defence of Natasa Micic was so intolerant, that he didn't even consider it appropriate to refer to an MP who said one of these insults, and, of course, returned to Mr Marsican, who was under discussion in this parliament at the request of the SRS -- but Mr Marsican realized in the course of the debate that it was better to resign than to talk about him for days, probably realizing that no one deserves to be dealt with by Parliament for three, four, five days. Maybe the current president should have done that. In addition, moving away from the topic, Democratic Party MP advocated his candidate in the upcoming presidential election, Mr Dragoljub Micunovic, not saying that Dragoljub Micunovic founded the Democratic Party, and that he was then kicked out of the Democratic Party, and now hypocritically support someone who was kicked out of the party by Vesic counting votes between Djindjic and Micun, opted for a younger and more perspective then, Zoran Djindjic. So I wouldn't be surprised, Mr. Dear, that in some of the next elections, in your party, judging by the conflicts that exist, you and Bosko Ristic count the votes for Zivkovic and someone else for Mr. Cedo Jovanovic. As for the infrastructure of the Serbian Radical Party... (President: three minutes. ..... And if Cedomir Jovanovic were here, he would confirm that the election results and the number of votes in 2000 came to the SRS electoral headquarters to inform, what is the situation in the polling stations, so you shouldn't underestimate the SRS. How much she will get votes in the next and next presidential and parliamentary elections, it will be a big surprise for you, but for me who attends every day with myths across Serbia, it will be.... (President: Four minutes. ....................................................................................................... Quite expected. This wasn't a replica. I went out on behalf of the promoter. Mrs. Jovanovic has a right to replication. Therefore, the truth is that this Parliament is in its own time, I only thought of this one example that the gentleman has brought out "dvorna mad". This parliament, thanks to your votes, voted and "dvorna mad" is no insult to this parliament. Why are you fighting now? Who has led to the situation that in this House you can say anything and all remain unpunished? It's not about this kind of thing, how you're trying to banalize it, it's about another shame that here and the president of the assembly tried to demonstrate in their own exposure, of course, defending themselves, talking to us as proposings -- shame, you were like this, you were like this. There's a lot of shame in this House, but it's a shame first of all that lustration law you've brought, so it's a shame he suggested candidates for that poor Lustration Commission, and then, in the course of the debate, these same candidates have submitted their statements to us here saying they're giving up because no one asked them. Imagine the President of the Assembly who has the discretionary right that the Law has given him, to suggest who will be on the Lustration Commission and not ask that man - will you do it? Then we get into a situation where at the session we need to talk about one composition of the Lustration Commission and we get statements from those people who say no one asked me, I don't agree. It's a shame and it's a shame she's stealing votes, it's a shame to talk about the SRS like some others have said, but it didn't go well because of what they said. It is a shame that the President of the Assembly is fighting so hard for his function and for the privileges that this function brings, aware that if she goes away, Goran Svilanovic goes away too, that Gašo Knezevic goes away and Radmila Hrustanovic, that neither Dargo Hiber will be chairman of the Management Board nor Telecom, or "Mobtela", I always mix it. So the whole party practically loses those positions it has. It's that cramping struggle here, and it doesn't see that it's been released down the water and that even these MPs coming out to defend it, are not defending it, but loading it even more on her neck and trying to make Serbia's public, now ahead of the presidential elections, allegedly say something about the SRS and other promoters that are not already known. We've all been in power and in opposition. Look, now the citizens know everything, all of us, know Tomislav Nikolic, what he can promise, what he can do, whether he is a man of state or not. You abuse as you once did Avramovic, a 74-year-old man, because you didn't have any others to suggest that you arrange for a presidential candidate, you who kicked him out of your party. That's why he doesn't have any of your support. You can't have those badges you're wearing on the lapel.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33762	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. The circle of replicas is already divided. And MP Zarko Obradovic asked for the replica and MP Sredoje Mihajlov, mentioning his party. National MP Lazar Marjanski is not mentioned anywhere and cannot have the right to replication. Dejan Mihajlov after Natasa Jovanovic's folk letter and then after all the MPs Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the public following this assembly broadcast, I must, although under the names of the MPs, but I would not be surprised if by some mere case and not written, such a technical error could occur, as the predecessor is called and renamed, the name of the gentleman from the Democratic Party, who, indeed for the first time, has been noticed by fellow Pop-Lazic and I, came out for the pay phone was Milan Milosavljevic. Otherwise, in Nis they don't know him as such, by his name or by his last name. He has a nickname typical of members of the "earth clan", but I wouldn't be surprised if they were marked as one, two and three, since there are more of them in the Democratic Party. As for Mr. Milosavljevic, Mr. Milosavljevic, and you, like the rest of the boys in the DS, didn't have to call today when you've already slept in this assembly for three years, to come forward and defend something that's indefensible. That Natasa Micic is indeed the real representative of a dictatorship introduced into the Serbian Parliament, that she violated the Constitution and the law, that she was intolerant, that she was a disgrace to the Serbian Parliament, we all know that, that the entire Serbian public saw it, and that no one can defend it anymore. Since the lady has left, probably realizing that you've let her go, or that broken-down coalition of yours, down the water, that some lonely enthusiast, like you and some in the DS, occasionally report for the word, don't waste your words on something that's completely familiar and obvious to the entire Serbian public. Mr. Milosavljevic, what is your idea of infrastructure and political parties, I will not enter into that detail, and given what you've brought out of the assembly booth, where you come from, what lobbys your Democratic Party has, that you're probably the representative of that niche lobby, you'd better cover yourself in your ears and keep quiet and not talk in such a way about the largest opposition party, the most organised political party in the country, such as the SRS. Be assured, Mr. Milosavlevich, that you too will be in the early hours of 17. (November) In the evening, just like Mrs. Micic, to learn that Tomislav Nikolic is the new president of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian radicals will have records from both Kosovo and Metohija and all over Serbia to prove it. Rest assured, Mr. Milosavljevic, although you're all wearing these badges, but this time with the right Serbian tricolor, because you put that martyr Dragoljub Micunovic on the billboard, because you don't know what Serbian looks like, so you remembered that she's different, and you put her on the hips. You're amazingly looking at me and you don't know if you should turn the badge one way or the other. He's round. Think about it, and you'll tell me later. As for our candidate, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, he is an absolute favourite in these elections. It will take a convincing victory, be sure of that, because after all your robberies, thieving, stealing in the Assembly and all you've done to this poor people, it's clear that Serbia, which is written on this promotional poster, should and must be better, radically better, with Tom Nikolic and Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33764	The People's Messenger, Dejan Mihail, has the right to a replica, and the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, as an authorised representative, has the right to a reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33765	Since I don't know what the Nis MP's name is, but it doesn't matter, he, like everyone else, has one cloned story that repeats as if he swallowed a tape recorder or something, but that story will end when he says the strongest party in Serbia -- the DSS wins, and when they see that they've broken already 16. (November) at 21.00. But let's go back to "mapetovic expressions" and say that if he's talking about "mapetovs," he hasn't offended me or Dragan Marsicanin, since these are the most positive characters, and he probably reserved for himself, looking at his mental set, the image of an animal for drums.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33766	The word has a folk MP, Vjerica Radet, and after that, MP Zarko Obradovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33767	The DOS colleagues are on the agenda of a motion for a resolution of the president of the Natasa Micic Assembly. Try her absence, at least one of you, who appears after this speaker, to make some argument, possibly for her defense. You're all going out for this pay phone to tell political stories, to go far from the subject, to explain that this proposal is an act of some kind of coalition. Sir, I'm speaking to you, no coalition is behind this proposal. This proposal, I repeat, has been submitted several times by the SRS, the SPS and the Socialist People's Party. I repeat, most of the MPs in this room have joined this proposal, they're just talking about you. You said when you talked about that coalition, that love in politics does wonders. That perhaps, in the name of love, you are not in a coalition with the Social Democratic Union? Sir, you tried to compare Mrs. Natasa Micic and Mrs. Gordan Pop-Lazic. Don't, please, it's incomparable. You tried to say that Serbia will plead in the next presidential election between Tomislav Nikolic and Dragoljub Micunovic. And it's also incomparable. Mr. Tomislav Nikolic in Pogorevec two days ago, 5,000 people waited. Today, Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic came to Pozharevic and was only met by the police, so the random passersby feared the police would not arrest the presidential candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33768	The word has a folk MP, Zarko Obradovic, another replica, and eventually the MP Slobodan Adzic, a replica to the presentation of MP Milan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33769	I would like to say something to my fellow Milosavljevic on behalf of the parliamentary group. The SPS is not in coalition with the DSS, is not in coalition with the SRS, is not in coalition with the Soviet Union. Repeat once again, we were in a coalition with Serbia, with citizens of Serbia, and I must say that, for the sake of state and national interests, we were in post-election coalitions with many parties. This item of the agenda is the consent of parliamentary groups, but you will see in voting and individuals, MPs agreeing that the President of the National Assembly must not violate the Rules of Procedure, must not violate the Law, must not violate the Constitution, must not steal mandates, must not steal during the vote, (as the Law on the Lustration and Selection of Governors and members of the National Bank Council), must not oppose the introduction of an emergency, must not in its own way interpret the laws, must not be a spokesman of the DOS, but rather be a speaker of the Assembly, the first among equal, to speak on behalf of the Assembly what the Assembly decides. This is about a simple coalition called the coalition of justice and the coalitions of truth and for nothing you close your eyes to that simple fact. When it comes to who he is, where he is, when and how much he broke, here he is yesterday. The DOS has been in power since 2000 and has won: candidate 10%, party 11%; SPS has won: candidate 26.5%, party 18; and somewhat. So much for shooting. I'm glad we heard one piece of information telling us the reasons why Dragan Todorovic said in 2000 that Mr. Kostunica won the elections -- he didn't win, he won more then, but he didn't win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33770	The word has a folk MP, Sredoje Mihajlov, a replica based on the mention of the party in the presentation of MP Milan Milosavljevic, and then MP Bojan Pajtic, a replica to the presentation of speakers who had a replica from the parliamentary clubs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33771	I'm obliged to remind you that some things have been mixed up and to remind you that G17 plus participated in the elections, we all went together and we adopted that power together. The G17 plus was in power along with you and until then it somehow worked out and held some barrels of water. However, after the accident that took place after Djindjic's murder, you also excluded G17 plus from power, excluding some MPs from your parties. It's normal for G17 plus to talk and say what he disagrees with. We're not saying that you've done everything the worst, but what we don't like, what we think we should criticise, we'll say gentlemen and argued. And please don't abuse the public as well as deceive them. We participated, they weren't thugs, they weren't coming back like that. They're coming back as politicians, mature, the whole world has confessed to them, so it would take a little respect and you here to find them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33772	The word has the People's MP Bojan Pajtic, the right to reply, and the People's MP Slobodan Adzic, the right to reply to the presentation of the MP Milan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33773	It is not unusual that the quotes read by Mr Milosavljevic were so painful for representatives of those groups that are today seeking the resolution of Natasa Micic. Those quotes have shown how terrible, offensive, vulgar words are spoken for this speaker. Those quotes showed that Natasa Micic could not react differently and that she reacted too mildly in certain situations. Those quotes showed that we as a group were wrong when we said it was an unnatural and bizarre coalition that stood up against Natasha Micic and against the Republic government. On the contrary, it is a completely natural coalition of those who engage in insults and slanders as a political expression in their political activities. That way, through those quotes, we were denied and I accept that it wasn't exactly like thesis. The DSS gentlemen referred to the presidential candidate, Mr. Micunovic, with ugly epithets, with alludations to the account of the years, and no moment did they mind when Mr. Micunovic supported Mr. Kostunica, despite the position of most of the parties in the DOS, to his side and never got that kind of epithet. We never minded it, we rose above it, and you gentlemen, above two of your electoral defeats, and if you do not want to support Mr. Micunovic, then don't insult him and leave him to the people of Serbia to judge who should win the elections, because none of us owns the voters, neither are you, nor are we. The voters will be defined, mature enough to see that Dragoljub Micunovic is the man who opposes everything offensive, vulgar and ugly on Serbia's political scene. So many times, such things have been said for this speaker alone, and he is the right man for the president of the Republic of Serbia. I'm taking the opportunity to make a formal proposal for the Rules of Procedure. I propose that we declare ourselves by voting under Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, namely the proposal to work today until this item of the agenda is completed. We at DOS do not want to delay on this agenda point, we do not want to delay the agenda. Once again, we appeal to the DSS to withdraw their proposal, as others submitted the proposal, following the SRS, to discuss the government's confidence. We think that exaggeration and exaggeration and totally paradoxically would be repeated twice by the same parliamentary procedure, the same parliamentary debate. That doesn't make any sense. That's how you waste your time. We at DOS want the People's Assembly to be defined as soon as possible and to resolve the President of the Assembly and the Government and to establish that the policy we have implemented in Parliament and in the Government will have support, not only in Parliament, but also in the presidential and republican elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33774	I'm putting on a motion to work today until this agenda ends. National MP Bojan Pajtic made a proposal for the Rules of Procedure. The obligation to put it to a vote. I ask the MPs, who's in favour of today's session session of the National Assembly until we finish the agenda. Here you go. For voting 52, against one,... Please direct transmission cameras that, until the Assembly calms down, show a picture of the National Assembly in direct transmission. [[growls]] Can I tell the MPs the results of the vote? Thank you. For 52, against one, the abstentioned one, did not vote 114, out of a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted a proposal from the MP on the extension of working time, that is, the Assembly is working today until the end of this agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, with MP Slobodan Adzic waiting for a replica, MP Verica Radeta, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, then MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33775	Gentlemen, it has shown how many of you are in this room and what majority of you can expect Mrs. Natasa Micic. We proposed Thursday, suggested that it be done until the debate is over that day. You said no. We couldn't vote for your proposal today, because we have a commitment to the presidential campaign, we didn't plan on working after that today. Since he has an announcement that he's planning not to work tomorrow, I suggest he put it to a vote to work tomorrow. It's our business obligation. Since there are stories that will not work, I would ask Mrs. Comic to put the motion to the vote to continue working tomorrow, or to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33776	People's MPs, you can make a proposal under the Rules of Procedure if it's different from the provisions that the Rules of Procedure normally have. Whether you're listening to stories or not, that's your choice. So, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly is working on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, unless otherwise decided. In order for her to decide otherwise, she needs to make a statement. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33777	Since you don't have most of the simple stuff anymore, this was a test to prove it, but good. I propose, since we were able to get the impression that tomorrow will not work, given that representatives of the Independent Unions are coming to the Serbian Assembly and will speak individually with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, and this will be the basis for a delay in this debate so that no session is scheduled tomorrow. We propose that this assembly make a decision that will commit itself to working under the Rules of Procedure, given that there is a reasonable doubt that it will not work. That's why it's been suggested to be done by the end of this debate. We want to work, and that's an 81st term, so we can get confirmation that tomorrow will work, so that some perfidious and magical ways won't avoid the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33778	The explanation also applies to what the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radet, has said. The Rules of Procedure shall apply. If you want a different proposal, then you can make a proposal, otherwise we're entering a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Slobodan Adzic, the right to reply to the presentation of MP Milan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33779	Dear colleagues, I appeal to the right to reply, as I am directly mentioned as an MP from Nis, otherwise a member of the DSS parliamentary group. In the previous speech by Mr Milan Milosavljevic, a series of lies were made, there was a sharp speech and there was a speech below every level that could be given by a national MP in this assembly here, since Mr Milosavljevic is from Nis, and Nis himself is somehow brought down to some level, which does not belong to that city. I would remind you that Nis is a cultural, historical, university center, commercial and sports center, so a center that has great numbers of intellectuals. I will remind you that in 1996, an election theft took place in Nis, and the citizens of Nis protested 100 days in the cold, fighting for the electoral will, which they fought for after 100 days of protests. But these same citizens who protested, in some days and a half 50,000 people today, do not regret that they protested for 100 days and fought for their electoral will, but everyone regrets that such people, such as Mr. Milosavljevic, were brought into local power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33780	Has anyone else picked up the replica? National MP Dejan Mihajlov, a replica of the presentation of MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33781	Since Mr. Bojan Pajtic said that we are afraid here, I don't know the choice, and that we are insulting the presidential candidate - our Micun or the DOS, we did not mention his age. They were mentioned by Cedomir Jovanovic from this pay phone when he said -- you're not going to go to an old man's election. That's what Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said when he spoke last week in this assembly. Look at the stenogram that he said that you can't go out on the night of an old man, and we said, on two occasions we beat your double-youth candidate, but since these choices are pointless, we have no reason to go out, but we are fighting for extraordinary parliamentary elections. These presidential elections were not called to succeed, but were called to simply distract Serbian citizens from Janjusevic, Kolesara, Marija Rasete-Vukosavljevic and other affairs. Here we now hear Dusan Mihajlovic and all other affairs, to buy you a few more days in power and so that you, in that cramping slave, would try to buy an MP and thus ensure that you are safe in this assembly. That's why these choices are scheduled. They are doomed to fail the day they are scheduled, so the DSS won't spend any time on the citizens of Serbia, neither the Serbian state, nor the Serbian citizens' money, but we simply want to see that they account for what they've done and see who the citizens support, we don't run away from that court: and if you run away, and you hide behind the story that you want elections, call those elections, they're full of the choices, just call them, go after Serbia but not dangerous to the bodyguard's misery, as many of you and the black limos who just run past the citizens who sit in those lines you mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33782	Is this circle of replicas over, lest any of the MPs be harmed? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Novakovic, after him a National MP, Bogoljub Zečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33783	Dear Vice-Presidents of Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, as well as any problem and the problem of the work of the National Assembly and the work of the National Assembly president can be spoken of from different aspects or quite precisely, it can be said of different dimensions. You can talk about how much and how respected an MP is, you can talk about the number of legal projects we've brought here and you can talk about the quality of the legal projects we've discussed here and you can talk about the quality of the debate. It seems to me that there is a dominant one dimension here, which is the dimension of respect or disrespect for the Rules of Procedure and what I think needs to be avoided, and that is one distinctly demagogue-ideological discourse and however unorthodox or out of the ordinary, I would try to talk about this problem by speaking to a dictionary type of argument and approach that will avoid jumping and I'd say, the bar achievements that seem to be the main way of communication have been all these days. So, I'm going to talk to that dictionary, that argument and that approach that I'm only allowed to speak from the mayoral position of Novi Sad. This means that I will try to explain why the work of the National Assembly in its legislative element had a positive impact on what is going to happen in Novi Sad and why I believe that the role of Natasa Micic was positive in all of this, but with the language of numbers, the language of statistics and the language of fact. So, the stable work of Parliament, and the work was stable independent of all remarks of business character, Novi Sad could do what it was set aside as a city that precedes all other cities in the country by investment activities and the town of Novi Sad is the investment leader, because in the previous three years we could, based on this legislative activity, invest 10 billion dinars. Of course, in all this was a very important Law on the participation of cities and municipalities in the sales of goods and services, which was dimensional in the city's budget and which, not only was it dimensional and not only of a certain volume of our budget, but also of the quality of the funds that we will raise, which will therefore enable the fact of a strong investment and recognition of Novi Sad as the most invested city and as the most desirable city for life. Let me explain it to you through certain statistics. To every city, its torment is the biggest and on the verge of good taste is to compare the torments in which the cities of 1999 and 2000 were found. Risking, therefore, that pathetic speech, Novi Sad has lost three bridges. Novi Sad has remained with the refinery and direct hits in many parts of the city. We could never have been so strong as to renew the New Now if we had not had a quality budget, a budget that is directly due to the legal projects that were carried out in this National Assembly. Twenty-sixm euros were provided to clean up the Danube, 40m euros were provided for the Freedom Bridge, further the budget framework and other legal projects that we had brought to this assembly enabled us to invest in other parts. When it comes to gasification, they have allowed gasification in populated areas, in Rumenca, Stepanovic, as well as this year in Kisac and Kovil. It's funny to some people, but I'm sure my fellow citizens, therefore, the new citizens, listening to this very well know what I'm talking about. It is very important that the 26m euros spent to clean up the Danube and 40m euros that are allocated to the investment of the "Freedom" bridge belong to our investors, so the FMC "Inžinjering", so "Contogradation", so "Hero Pinky", so "Goshi" from Smederjevska Palanka, so PIM, and that the money spent in Novi Sad is the money injected into our business organisations, and that they get that job and, consequently, produce positive effects for the economy of our country. I believe that the topic, therefore, is the whole set of legal projects that have conditioned the good financial position of the city budget and the whole network, therefore, of legislative projects that have given a different formal legal position to Novi Sad, which have therefore brought more funds into the city budget and based on these funds, we could also enter those parts of the city in which it has never been invested. So, when we came to the situation that, for 20 or 30 years in certain parts of the city, nothing was invested and for the first time, we were working on "Detelinar", we were doing a reconstruction of Banatska, Brothers Molgin, Grčić's street, Molier's street, Cornelius Stankovic, Iliy Bircanin, for the first time in 20 or 30 years we were able to invest on Telek, in Kiš Erne, in Ilariono Ruvarac, in Bogdan Šputa, in Hero Pinki. For the first time in Vase Pelagić, Pap Pavla, and in all the streets in Novi Sad. We could have been in certain parts that haven't been reconstructed for more than 20 years, if you're interested in Thessaloniki Street, too. She's on "Detelinar" and if you listen carefully she walks into Cornelia Stankovic's street, so the teachers would say, "Stop me every time you don't get it, I'll answer all your questions." So it allowed us to invest heavily in the Salais, when it comes to Partizan Street and Karajordjeva. They're not the only streets in that part of town. First, that part of town has its name. His name is Salaika. I mentioned in the context of only Partisan and Karajordeva, and if you'd asked me about the rest of the parts, I wouldn't have missed telling you that's part of the town that borders the streets of Kisacka, Sentendreska and Temerska. And if you had asked me about it, I would have also told you about Dosite, Jovan Cvijic, Sava Đisalov, Branko Radičević and Kosta Sotice, from Radoj Domanović, and then about Raško, Nemanja, Vojislav Ilic, Square of Peace, Šajkaška, Užička, Stajnajska, Granika, about Zivanovic's street. I would tell you about Theodore Mandic, Josif Marinkovic, Pera Popadic, Peter Drezgic, Balkan and Đerdapska, because it is my Salajka and my Novi Sad, and you do not know how to find the center of your city. So I think that's very important you can still throw, I'll answer all the questions. I think it's politics. So it's not the politics of ideology, it's not the politics of stories who's Republican, and who's a monarch, who's got better ideas. Politics is how capable you are of solving the problems of ordinary people and investing in your city and showing progress from day to day. I don't see him at your place. It's a central thing. Serbia is divided in this part into European and anti-European. European - works, anti-European legalist - story. European Serbia is making decisions, legalising opinions and views. European Serbia assumes responsibility, legalist Serbia is the stamp of a statement, and every time an hourglass shows three hours and you ask legalist Serbia - what are you doing? They'll tell you how many statements they made, how many statements and whether they had a press conference. When you ask European Serbia, she is ready to take care of everything, which is why she was useful to her city and her country that day. I'm doing it from this pay phone. I'm sure the New Yorkers understand me, and if you understand me, you'll see it in the next election. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33784	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, as a proposing item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33785	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I see Mr. Novakovic as carrying out evidence here in the National Assembly, because he was one of those MPs who was involved in stealing votes when voting on the Labour Act, and instead of being here in the National Assembly, his card was there, and he was at the hotel "Cimiski", in the center of Thessaloniki drinking coffee. Everyone knows this, and I cannot take seriously the man who falsely presents himself, because Mr. Novakovic is no mayor, but the president of the New Sad City Assembly is elected under that old law, and the new mayor will be Maja Gojkovic, as soon as the local elections are held, and I see that not only are these parliamentary elections in sight. Today's debate is about calling an early parliamentary election. There's talk of government, there's no talk of Natasha Micic at all. No one defends her, no one protects her, and by now you've convinced me that we should be preparing for local elections, which would be very useful, of course, to hold at the same time as the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33786	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, the second announcement, as chairman of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33787	This debate showed that there were MPs who swallowed the phone book, who missed the topic, who did not do their homework and who did their homework. There are those who, as arguments for the defence of Natasa Micic, said that we want to introduce chaos into Serbia. What chaos can we lead into the chaos that already exists? A chaos in which we do not have a president of the state, because the parliamentary majority boycotted the election twice and according to their candidate in the election of Miroljub Labus has obstructed the success of the second round of elections last October. We have a assembly that is illegal, which will not respect the Constitutional Court's decision and return mandates to MPs who have been kidnapped against the law, because the moment these MPs returned, the government would not have a majority, regardless of all the votes at that time. We have a Parliament in which the government stems from an illegal parliament. A government that's been operating for months without ministers, without the Minister of Health, the Minister of Energy. We have a governor of the National Bank who has been elected contrary to the Law, a governor who does not have the support of this assembly, when it is determined by the statements of those who are said to have been in this assembly, that they were not and that someone is saying that someone here wants to create chaos, and no institution in Serbia is working. Take the Broadcasting Council, it doesn't work, it doesn't have three members, and these members they have are controversial and this Council doesn't work at all. And you're telling someone they want to cause chaos. What kind of chaos are we talking about here? The chaos you've made! Chaosu institution! The institution that has been destroyed - the government is only trying to rule through the usurpation of jurisdiction and the Assembly and the president of the state and the courts. That's the state you've made, that's the state of chaos that's beginning to get out of your control. You wanted to make a controlled mess. That chaos has avoided your control. All of them and a large number of those who have been with you now are no longer. We're not talking about the opposition, we're talking about those who were with you. These are: G17, New Serbia, "The Initiative for Normal Serbia", the People's Movement "Resistance" that you have often welcomed from this pay phone, which you are now criticising from this speaker. There's the Independence Union and, of course, the DSS. They're not parties to the former regime, they're not any party, they're parties that won together with you on October 5th. They are against you now, we are against you and therefore we need extraordinary parliamentary elections. Speaking of facts, i.e. the way you were trying to defend Natasha Micic, you weren't trying to defend her in a way that you could say that she respected the Constitution and the laws, that she had implemented the Rules of Procedure and that she was guarding state institutions. You defended her from being a woman and that in a Balkan country someone attacked Natasa Micic because she is the first woman president of the assembly. Of course it doesn't matter, nor did anyone ever mention it. On the contrary, we think that at one point it might have been good and that it has shown that Serbia is an emancipated state, but that is not why we are discussing the resolution of Natasha Micic. There are other reasons. Then, the next reason for the system to collapse. That was your argument. You identify an individual with a system, an individual with a state. In Italy, 52 governments were changed after the war, and Italy belongs to seven of the most developed countries in the world. With them, the system works, regardless of government and government. Government rocking is nine months in Italy. They are one of the seven most developed countries in the world, and governments fall every nine, ten months. 52 governments have changed, so it's not the end of the world if the government falls. Don't identify yourself with the state. That's what Milosevic did, that's what you do, and it's not good, and any government that works like that can't get citizens' support. It's very bad to identify yourself with the state. The system has to work regardless of individuals. This is how the system works in Italy, it is the best example that 52 governments in less than 50 years are yellow, and that Italy is one of the seven most developed states, and that it deals with organised crime in its country, it was the prime minister, it was their top public prosecutor. No one said that Natasa Micic had kept the state, because it did not - because she usurped the seat of the president of the Assembly because it was the one during whose term of office the mandates in this Assembly of the People's MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia were stolen; because during its term of office, although it advocated private property, it was not put on the agenda of the law on denationalisation, although last November the Democratic Party of Serbia submitted the law to the Assembly; and because it did not call the elections, although the Constitutional Court, a provision by which it did not call the elections, declared it unconstitutional. So she counter-constitutionally usurped the position of president of the state. The Constitutional Court has declared that provision unconstitutional. You say you want a debate, but run away from the vote. You say you want elections, but you don't call them. You say you're not afraid of citizens, but that's why you're going with a bunch of bodyguards around you so these citizens can't come near you. One government, which says to itself that it is the government of citizens and that it enjoys the support of citizens, is not acting that way. Natasa Micic, acting as president of the state, did not prevent what is happening in the Vojvodina Assembly. This cheap and rotten compromise, which is made for the sake of the preservation of the Republic government, and with some parties that advocate the federalisation of Vojvodina, is something that this country will cost. In the Vojvodina Assembly, a decision was made to establish the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. Is V.D. The president of the state and the president of the assembly did something to protect the institutions? It's unconstitutional and against the law, what's done, and what I've just mentioned. Did she do anything to stop it? Did she do anything to prevent the state from breaking up, or did we have fun here, while, for political trade, it was left to some parties in Vojvodina, and we all know which parties to break up the state? Yeah, they're breaking the country! After that, we have a proposal for some parties to call a referendum on the independence of the Vojvodina. What does this lead to, rather than breaking up the state and having an irresponsible relationship with the problems that arise? There's too little attention here to give to the problems we've got. The Manchester or "Law" that you have brought, one "Law" that has changed a hundred other laws, which function to the extent that it enables the creation of an independent Vojvodina or the federalisation of the Vojvodina or the Vojvodina Republic or the return to the 1974 Constitution, is something that breaks Serbia. That can't be allowed. He who has the highest authority in this country, who has the post of president of the Assembly and who is acting as president of the state has the obligation, under the Constitution, to preserve the state, to preserve the highest state institutions, to preserve the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, to preserve a unified and comprehensive constitutional order, to advocate respect for the Constitution and the law throughout the territory. This is the obligation of the President of the Assembly and V.D. The president of Serbia's state, rather than having a mild attitude towards what is happening in Vojvodina and what is leading to the federalisation of Serbia, which leads to the split of Serbia into several states, and thus, in the second stage, the issue of Serbia's territorial integrity, as we will have, what our state will look like. For this reason, we believe that the arguments I expect to hear until the end of the debate, which will support the defence of Natasa Micic, should be arguments that she respected the Constitution and the laws, that she advocated, in accordance with the oath she took, to preserve the territorial integrity and respect of the Constitution and the law throughout Serbia's territory, to disable anything that leads to Serbia's division. These are the arguments I want to hear from this pay phone, not the arguments we've already heard, that they're beautiful pictures of her when she gets out of the car or someone else. These are not arguments that defend the office of President of the Assembly. Let us, in this way, take this debate seriously, take it essentially, argued that we are discussing all objections to the violation of the Constitution and the law by the President of the Assembly and that we are serious about this assembly. This debate, in the last few hours, has been a lot of downhill. It's come down to a crackdown. Let us take this debate seriously, return to the agenda topic, not to declare phone book or something, but to discuss the Constitution, laws and president of the National Assembly, for which the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33788	National MP Bojan Pajtic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33789	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the only one who has remained inconsistencies with his 2000 coalition partners since March 2001 was the Democratic Party of Serbia. On the other hand, there were 16 other parties, and at no time did you wonder how it could be 16 parties on the one hand, and on the other hand, only the Democratic Party of Serbia remains. It's quite simple to explain. Since March 2001, the Democratic Party of Serbia has been trying to exploit the fact that all DOS parties (16) invested in presidential candidate Vojislav Kostunica in 2000 and that the DSS, on the wave of that victory, had at one point an unworthy rating, which did not go along with their infrastructure, nor with their programme efforts, and at least with what they were doing or were able to do. The Democratic Party of Serbia has had the opportunity to show what it knows in this parliament, at the federal level, in the Republic government. The Democratic Party of Serbia unfortunately did none of it! The Democratic Party of Serbia has done nothing in the Yugoslav Army, even if it was necessary. She did nothing in the Republic government, and we know that the health situation is the worst, it is said several times today, but it can be repeated again, because we first had a minister from the Democratic Party of Serbia, and after the minister from G-17 plus, and the Republika Srpska's Rules of Procedure, whose application is being charged with Natasa Micic, has just been suggested by the Democratic Party of Serbia. We shouldn't forget that. Natasa Micic strictly stuck to the Rules of Procedure, the only thing she needs and the president of the Assembly has to stick to, is the Rules of Procedure. When we had the president of the Parliament of the Democratic Party of Serbia, we heard quotes from the stenograms, what was the level of addressing some MPs to the president, and in what way, quite evenly, he called them circusants and other inappropriate concepts at the time. Don't tell us about breaking Serbia. The concept of the constitution of the Democratic Party of Serbia is the regionalisation of Serbia at all costs. What's that other than complete disintegration? What is it other than the violent and completely anti-natural division of Serbia, if, on the one hand, we have the concept that we have those provinces that exist -- Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina, which are historically existing, which have a constitutional and sovereign power in Serbia's territory, unfortunately Kosovo and Metohija still do not, but it will be, and on the other hand, we have your proposal that, at any rate, divides Serbia into regions, without any sense and without any resonance, completely administrative, completely against nature, as preparing for future disintegration of Serbia. Don't even tell us about the debate. You voted against us to finish today's debate on the President of the Assembly so that tomorrow we could continue the debate on the Republic Government. You voted against it. You've shown who cares about the debate. We, once and for all, have taken that mortgage off ourselves and it is certain that we will not allow ourselves to be accused of such a thing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33790	The People's MP, Zivica Predoev, is looking for a replica. On what basis are you looking for a replica? Are you looking for a replica based on the mention of your party? I'm looking for a word because I'm offended and hurt. ) The fact is, you're an MP in another assembly, which is not a basis for replication. The apostle expressed his views, and did he mention your party in them - I don't know, but he mentioned a referendum on the independence of the Vojvodina and mentioned an independent Vojvodina. If that's the basis of recognition, you have your word. The word has a folk MP called Zivica Predojev, based on recognition, and there is no direct reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33792	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Madam President of the Assembly, I'd have to make a few things clear to some people, who appear to be from Banat. I am Zivica Predojev, for those who do not know me, a Banatian Serb and I am an MP in the province's parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. I'm very glad it's like that and that I'm there. I am very glad that I made this decision that is not a decision to part Serbia at all. I must remind the people in this assembly, in this great solemn home, that a similar congregation also in Novi Sad made a very fair decision, out there sometime after the First War, upon entering the country of Serbia. At that time, Vojvodina had its face, its character and its desires, and it put these desires on the people and the state of Serbia -- here you go. The people and the state of Serbia did not accept it properly. Vojvodina must regain its character and do so, not for leaving Serbia, but for telling Serbia what it looks like. On that side, I respect her terribly. Otherwise, the foundation of the Vojvodjan Academy of Sciences, I'm sorry, has not been abolished by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, only the foundation of the Vojvodjanska, and one more thing to remind you: more important decisions have been made. It was brought to create a group that would select the solemn markings of the Vojvodina, the flag and the solemn song. Someone calls it an anthem, I would still say it's a ritual song and I think it's the right thing to do, because Vojvodina wants this Serbia to have its own character and there's a reason for it. You should probably imagine the people who are members of this distinguished home, why Vojvodina is asking for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33793	National MP Branislav Grubaski, a replica of the presentation of MP Dejan Mihajlov on the basis of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33794	The chairman, Members of Parliament, is a replica of what I said was a matter of the president's trust in causing chaos. Of course, it is a cause for chaos in a situation where a legalist party boycotts presidential elections in which, of course, last year, when its candidate was supposed to eventually get to participate, and now he's not participating, of course he's in a situation when a party that is a member of the Constitutional Commission comes out of the Constitutional Commission. What's it to cause chaos? The party of legalist principles, of course, was not against Radet Markovic, Pavkovic, against everything people fought for on October 5th. Of course, what bothers them? They are bothered by the Vojvodina Assembly, which is the only one to complete and consistently implement the policy set out on October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33795	People's MP Milorad Mircic is looking for a word, on what grounds? Are you quoted? National MP Branislav Grubaski received the basis for a replication of MP Dejan Mihajlov, because he was misquoted, and MP Zivica Predojev spoke about the mention of his own party... (Milorad Mircic: I was recognized in the exhibition of Dejan Mihajlov, in the work of the Vojvodina Assembly and in the part of the issue of positions, decision-making...). You gave the exact same base to my colleagues. I said the basis by which fellow MP Branislav Grubaski and MP Zivica Predojev were given. You do not have the right to reply, since the chairman of the National Assembly is obliged to assist the MPs of the people, I ask the next MP who has the right to the word.... (Milorad Mircic: I was recognized in the discussion...) Tell us openly, Mrs. Comić, that you give the Banats a word, and you don't give us the Bačkas). This is the People's Messenger, Bogoljub Zečević. Is he here? Please, by direct mentioning the People's MPs of Milorad Mircic, allow the business to gain the right to replication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the DHSS Group - Independent Serbia will vote for Mrs Micic to continue to serve as president of the National Assembly, because we believe that she has done this duty seriously and responsibly so far. All the objections that exist to her work are either unfounded, and the majority does not refer to Mrs Micic's jurisdiction. Ms. Micic led the assembly's DOS policy. The government inherited a crisis in southern Serbia, a protectorate in Kosovo, problems of the common state with Montenegro, isolation from international institutions, a very poor economic situation, a large number of unemployed, a large number of seemingly employees, etc. In addition to passing laws, which is the basic work of the Assembly, a number of other acts related to the other obligations of our country have been brought in. All this has passed the assembly procedure, the Assembly has worked very efficiently, and the highest credit for it is Mrs. Micic's. I would like to say something about objections to Mrs Micic's work, which mainly concerns the violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As far as the Constitution is concerned, the greatest charge is that no mandates have been returned to the MPs under the Constitutional Court Decision. The President of the Assembly cannot make any decisions to determine the composition of the Assembly. The president simply presides over those who are presently MPs. The authority to implement this decision is in the hands of the Administrative Board, and the president cannot give any orders to the Administrative Board, how the Constitutional Court of Serbia will implement decisions. The main objection to the respect of the Rules of Procedure concerns the penalties that Mrs Micic has imposed. The Rules of Procedure provide for the penalties for which infringements are imposed, and the discretionary right of the chair is to interpret those provisions. In two years, as Mrs. Micic presided over the Assembly, we have all seen how the Rules of Procedure applies. All MPs who received the fine were aware of the risks when they tried to act beyond the Messenger and cannot now claim to be unjustly punished. The initiative to resolve Mrs Micic should be seen in one, as a broader action by opposition parties. The crucial thing is not the possible mistakes of the president of the assembly, but the aim is to put Ms. Micic's mistrust to the undermining, which would easily bring down the Serbian government, which would produce elections at all levels in our country. The opposition to this behavior is right. A word about those from the ruling majority, who question the work of Ms. Micic: Mrs. Micic is part of the DOS team and, in my deep conviction, a better part of the team. It is perfectly logical to share the fate of the DOS and the fate of the Serbian government. If the Serbian government continues to carry out its post, it would not be worth Mrs. Micic's resolution, as it would be a step back, we all know who would take over the assembly presidency, and simply, it would begin the wrinkling of both the Assembly and the government and the people in general. Those of the ruling majority who believe this government's time is up, it simply needs to be said openly, that's their legitimate right. If we do not have a majority in the Assembly, we should not act as the previous regime that at all costs defended survival in power, but rather as serious and responsible people to do what is in the interests of the people and the state, which is to discuss the elections. In the end, this vote will end as it ends. I am convinced that Ms. Micic will continue to serve as president of the Assembly, but one thing is quite certain, the court on the work of Mrs. Micic will not give proposals, whether they are aware of it or not, the court on the work of Ms. Micic and in general on the events in the last two years, will give the time before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33797	The President of the National Assembly, Natasa Micic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33798	It is my turn to respond to some of your claims, of course, to the President's esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. You claim that I have violated the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. It is not true, because the violation of the Constitution and the law don't judge you, nor I, nor the political parties, nor your leaders, nor the media, but the Constitutional Court. And did the Constitutional Court ever find that I broke the law or the Constitution? No, even on the contrary, he made it clear that I acted in accordance with the Constitution and the law and when it comes to introducing the state of emergency, and when it comes to calling presidential elections. That's what you know very well who are looking for my solution. That's why, once during this debate, you didn't specify which law I specifically violated or when I didn't respect the Constitution. You've shown only one thing with your flat-rate accusations - disregard for the rights and disrespect of the institutions, in this case, the Constitutional Court. You claim I've violated the Rules of Procedure. You're reading logs from a session full of four days, thinking that's how you prove your claims. In fact, you convinced me even more that I was absolutely right and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You're complaining about a Rules of Procedure that I didn't adopt. You're complaining about the Assembly. This shows, again, the ignorance of the Rules of Procedure and the disrespect of the institution of the National Assembly. Your Rules of Procedure are strict because you have failed to make this assembly a ruins, in which you have transformed your own government in 10 years. The job of the President of the Assembly is to apply the Rules of Procedure. That's what I did. If I gain your trust, I will apply it as I have so far: consistently and without compromise. I am bound by the Rules of Procedure, but also by the duty of citizens who, regardless of which political party they voted for, have not given you a mandate for the policy of destruction. Did I cancel the TV broadcasts from the Assembly? (Louds from the O.R.: Yes, you are.) I have to remind you when it's itself Please respect the Rules of Procedure and not throw away the speaker. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] I didn't throw it to you, I listened very carefully. Let me give you an answer to your claim that I've lifted the TV transmission from the Assembly. First of all, I have to remind you, when you deliberately keep your mouth shut, that this Parliament has passed the Law on Broadcasting, which has abolished the possibility of affecting RTS's programming decisions. So you have shown the lack of knowledge of the laws adopted by this assembly and the disrespect of institutions, in this case, by independent media institutions. But I want to believe that you're looking forward to a time past in which politicians conduct media. Still, I've done everything I can to get the transmission to be. I spoke to the media several times and invited them to consider the possibility. As a result, some local and foreign media organizations resented me. But as you can see, there's a transmission. I hope this problem will be permanently solved by establishing a parliamentary channel. I would mention, in this regard, that there is a direct Internet transmission in the Assembly. I tried to reform and heal this assembly from the inside, to make it a serious and modern institution, to work quality, fast and efficient. We have been able to consider 430 acts proposals for this time and adopt as many as 128 laws since January 2001. The congregation worked, practically, every day in the tides and through committees that held over 600 sessions. Over 8,500 amendments have been considered. It was a dangerous pace, of course, for us MPs who attended regular sessions and voting. I'm among them, I have no absences. Technical equipment has also been significantly improved. Today we also have a wireless internet, a congregation site and a modern library, so parliament is no longer in the technological stone age. I've met more than 70 times with diplomats and guests from abroad, just to present what we've done together and to provide new assistance for this institution. We have opened the Assembly to both the public and 80 young students who have been helping you, the MPs for two years. As for the vote on the governor's election, I've already explained it several times. Of course, you know that the President of the Assembly can't control what all MPs are doing at all times, and at the very least it can at the moment of the vote. It is the opposition who has the right, but also the obligation to control the congregation's majority. At least it's in normal parliamentary systems. Why were the opposition or at least some of its representatives not present at the session and controlled the course of the vote? Why didn't she take advantage of the opportunities provided for by the Rules of Procedure, which, according to my initiative, the Constitutional Court showed them? I was asked to cancel the vote on the election of the governor of the National Bank. Of course, by any regulation and paragraph, the President of the Assembly does not have that authority. So, what? Once again I do not know the Rules of Procedure, for one purpose only, with the aim of the destruction of the Assembly. I feel as responsible as my predecessor, former speaker of the Assembly, when on December 5, 2001, he found the end of the term of office which today is controversial. Of course, I'm saying he couldn't have been more responsible, because he had to respect then the decision of the Administrative Committee and the Republic Election Commission. I'm talking about stopping the term of office for Karaicic, for Bajcetic. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] That's what you said on December 5th, 2001. What you did and how you did, I also pointed out during the debate. However, most of all, the debate itself and the arguments that you have made: destruction, failure to participate in work, inconclusiveness, irresponsibility towards your own voters. That's why I won't be able to hold on to that, except for one thing some of you have shyly, yet repeatedly repeated. I quote, "This is a political initiative. Legitiman is the opposition's request for someone's shift for purely political reasons. We're looking for a shift from the president of the assembly because of the policy she's been leading." I'll stick to this argument for a while, because we totally agree on that. In fact, we've been conducting reforms at a rate that we can only jump into the last train to go to Europe. I remind you that is why Prime Minister Djindjic was killed. Are "we" responsible for the attempt to make up for the missed so expensively paid or "they" for which Rade Markovic and Nebojsa Pavkovic were factors of state stability after October 5th, "they" which were against discount policy, while still favouring Milosevic's constitution, for the concentration government? If we hadn't extradited Milosevic, the citizens of Serbia would now be gnawing under sanctions. And who was against extradition? Those who care about political ratings, not citizens. Who's afraid of the past? Those who voted against the Lustration Act. About a lot of things, we're politically different. However, I had hoped that there would be awareness among all democratic forces that we needed a political consensus on things that depend on a better life for citizens, that the important goals ahead of Serbia must be outside of daily politics. Because of the jobs that are waiting for us in the next few months, the elections are not necessary, because they will slow us down. But unfortunately, there is no political consensus. That's why we have to go to the election. They need to contribute to the stability of the state. It is Serbia's priority today, both because of Cosmeta and the community with Montenegro, and because of political and economic reforms and because of citizens' hopes in a better life. These elections must give hope, not new divisions at all. It depends on how they are called, but also on participants in the election. That is why the presidential elections and Mr. Micunovic's victory are important, because he is rightly aware that the consensus of democratic forces in Serbia on the common road is important and is ready to build and reach that agreement. His victory will be a clear signal to all that in Serbia there is awareness of most where Serbia should go and that the parties are not the most important result, but the victory of the pro-European forces and the continuation of reforms. Reforms, which are not their own goal, are building a society of justice and security. Having elected a president, we leave it to the citizens to decide in the parliamentary elections which policy option will receive more and which less responsibility for the implementation of this task that will no longer be subject to day-to-day policy. Of course, gentlemen, with full awareness that even this future government cannot be loved, because many difficult decisions still have to be made. I want to paraphrase Mr. Micunovic - transition is the greatest injustice for one society but without it cannot go forward. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I belong to a political option that has so far shown that the idea is much more important to her than the political rating, which is more important to the public interest than the individual. For me, politics is not a profitable activity, but a struggle for ideals and democratic Serbia. The fact that in the 1990s I joined the Civil League of Serbia in Užica, which led an anti-war policy and a policy to respect human rights at a time when we know what was going on and what policy was going on here, next to Drina. I belong to a political party who doesn't tell citizens what they want to hear, but what they need to hear. That is why our two policies will certainly crash in the elections, and then the citizens will choose between us, who have made decisions, and you, the observers who have fled from responsibility. That policy that gets voter confidence will have a crucial impact on our country's future in these break-in moments, when we are trying to make up for a 10-year delay for our neighbours. When we try to change Serbia from an age of irresponsibility into a country of responsible people and authorities, but let's go back to the beginning and see which of these two policies has a majority here, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33799	Before they get a word in the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Marsican has the right to replication. A proposal under the Rules of Procedure or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? A proposal by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33800	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to finish this part of the story after Ms. Natasa Micic's presentation, given that she spent very little time here today and listened to the MPs, I suggest that we work today until 18.30 hours. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33801	I am putting the motion to vote on the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta that today the Assembly is working until 18.30 hours. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 105, against five, with five abstentions, did not vote 56, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, accepted the proposal from the People's Parliament of the Faith Radate that the National Assembly is now working until 6:30 p.m. The word is given by MP Dragan Marsican, the right to replication based on the direct mention of National Assembly President Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33802	This previous vote is not, of course, a reason for my reporting, but this is an illustration of what I've been trying to explain to you today and what you've been trying so hard not to understand. When you have a very clear question, such as whether or not you agree to work until 7:30, then all MPs, reasonable, and in this case it was you...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33803	People's MP, we're working until 6:30, not 7:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33804	By 6:30? Hours, yeah. You have an answer, we'll be working till half past seven. So there's no coalition, there's only reason. That is what I am telling you when proposals for a vote of no confidence to the president of the Assembly are also about proposals for a vote of no confidence to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This may be one picture, so that picture will help us understand what you may not have understood in another way. But the writer of the text that Mrs Micic read really rightly pointed out the fact that there was very little argument here about what the sins of the National Assembly president were, of course, discussed. The arguments were raised in favour of the claim that it violated the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, and then the debate at the will of the MPs of the DOS was transferred to some entirely different and final line for this opportunity of unsatisfactory subjects. But I will listen to the writer of the text read by Mrs Micic and try again to repeat some of the already stated claims. So, an example of a violation of the Constitution: a banal but very picturesque one, is the declaration of the number of MPs in the National Assembly of 248. For that there are, if not a good memory, there is material evidence, there are records. It's just one picture and it was insisted on it. It's no big deal, it's a reduction in the number of MPs of the Assembly, yes, it's no big deal, I hear from the MPs of the DOS, break the constitution. It's really not scary. The second example concerns the return of the DSS proposal to include the implementation of a decision by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda of this session. Of course, that decision doesn't contribute to DOS. Natasa Micic and her defenders point out that she, as speaker of the assembly, implemented the DOS decision. Please, that's enough to get rid of. It is an argument put on the former president's burden as the only argument for a vote of no confidence. The president of the assembly claims, confirms and prides himself on leading DOS policy. I am not going into what DOS policy is, disastrous, but it is not for the president of the assembly to implement DOS policy, but for the policy of this assembly where MPs and political representatives of all citizens of Serbia are sitting. If you learn this Civil League and if you learn it, Natasa Micic..
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33805	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33806	.. He may also become a valid president of the National Assembly. So far, it hasn't been for these reasons. Thirdly, therefore, the proposal required by the agenda of the decision of the Constitutional Court was rejected in order to prevent the MPs here from pleading on the agenda and that this decision, since a reasonable majority was provided, most MPs to vote to put it on the agenda, is it of their own free will, by abuse of the situation of prevention...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33807	Four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33808	Preventing the implementation of a decision by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is one of the many evidences of the illegal and unconstitutional work of the National Assembly president.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33809	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, right to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33810	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in their speech, seem to me the final and final speech in the post of President of Mrs Natasa Micic's Parliament has only confirmed that our arguments that we have made and which we have proved in place these days and that Natasa Micic cannot be at the same time a spokesman for the government and president of the Assembly. She spoke from this speaker as someone representing the interests of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is absolutely unacceptable from the aspect of parliamentary democracy. So, not getting into all the personal stuff, and there's a lot of it, maybe the biggest success of Ms. Micic's political career is that she moved out of Užica to this Užičko street or all these credits mentioned in the paper and the yellow press, and I have the right to tell you, I don't believe it until I check it out. There's also talk about some US-AD loan of her husband, so I wouldn't really get into it, but what's very important for this parliament, I have to draw attention again, which is that only because this assembly is turned into a market, that it doesn't know who the MP is here, that there are parliamentary mandates traded here, that some MPs are not allowed here to do their job - Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mrs Micicic has strayed away for an indefinite period, here, now to ask her until and why, she wouldn't even know that she's explained it to us, nor was she trying to give us these specific accusations to answer. And Mr. Zivkovic, who miraculously found himself here and got involved in this debate of ours, and he shouldn't be challenged because he's not a national MP, although he's the Prime Minister, he doesn't care who he is or at least shouldn't be concerned with, if we stick to that division of power. I understand that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic comes because, as Deputy Prime Minister, he is also a national MP and can take the protection of the current president of the National Assembly and can discuss all the laws, but according to this agenda, it is the failure of Mrs. Comic. Mr. Zivkovic really had nothing to do in Parliament, and he put on the burden and on the soul of Natasa Micic that she did not put many legislative proposals on the agenda on time. Instead of defending her, he has actually added another argument to what we have put forward, and should influence MPs from the vote itself to understand and decide that no longer needs to be supported by such a speaker. We have heard a lot of things here, that Mrs. Micic is responsible for the reforms, that she is responsible for the gasification, for cleaning up the Danube, for the transmission via the Internet. Mrs. Micic, do you know what percentage of Serbian citizens use the internet. I can't pay my children the Internet from my salary, I can't, unfortunately, I can't. So these are things that do not concern themselves, above all, are not related to the function of the president of the National Assembly. I only remember one thing, and you mentioned something about documents, one of your sentences that literally reads like this on Mr. Obradovic's intervention to get him a list from a vote, you said, "I don't list you, I decided, I don't give you a list because you weren't at the vote." Now you want to present yourself here in some other light, reading a speech that apparently Mr. Hiber wrote to you, because we all know your style. Your style could be seen by citizens these days, you were one of the points on many televisions as "The impression of the week" and, of course, in "negative sense". The citizens voted very hard for the proposal. Your frustrated behavior behind this speaker is not in your favor, and today you obviously had to prepare a little more and read something that someone else wrote to you, to show yourself in some other light, but three years here we have been watching you and listening to you, as you are looking at and listening to Serbian citizens. One more thing, Mrs. Micic, you, as president of the Assembly, are not going to do it, and it is not going to happen that you are running a presidential campaign. You've made a lot of mistakes so far and now you're wrong. You have defined yourself as a candidate who will lose, you should have defined yourself as a candidate who will win, and he says here: "I will win the DOS" shows a picture of Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33811	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, followed by MP Srda Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33812	Dear Madam President, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about what the past period has been in the work of this assembly and what we have done in this assembly, by passing laws that have its effects on the ground and laws that I do not want to talk about as a politician of general practice, but about laws that give certain effects in our cities and municipalities. Knowing the topic, of course, and this debate that speaks of the president's responsibilities, Mrs Natasha Micic, to adopt certain legal solutions, but also to lead this assembly, I want to accept very gladly responsibility for many systemic legal solutions, and I am about to show the link and what our work is doing on the ground. When we compare the efficiency of the Assembly in the past session, we certainly cannot avoid facts, we are aware of them, which is - the level of funding of local communities, local self-government, cities and municipalities. So, the law that was mentioned about financing cities and municipalities in 2000 brought seven and a half million euros to my city, Nis, so a city of 300,000 people who had to operate with collapsed municipal systems, with systems leaking everywhere, with seven and a half million euros. Of course we can assume what the budget is and how effective everything could have been, so at all levels in the city. An example that the work of this assembly since 2001, when the budget of not only my city, but also other municipalities and cities in Serbia has grown and nearly 100%, as compared to 2000, can be a good effect on our work and insistence on the efficient work of this assembly. So, an example that from seven and a half million euros in 2000, the budget allocated to us by the previous assembly, in 2001, we have 15 million, by 2002, that budget is about 35m euros and that this year the budget is planned at 50m euros. So, compared to 2000, the clear effects of what all the people in the town of Nis, those who have good intentions, are aware of how we have lived since 2000 or ten years ago (that year), but these are the effects that clearly show and I am proud of some system solutions that we have brought together here with the leadership of this assembly, Ms. President Natasa Micic. You'll say, of course, it's not easy to live and I know it and I know that many of my citizens in cities have big problems, but I'll say one more thing: in 2000, the average salary in Serbia, and even in my city, was 30 euros, yes, 1,800 dinars at that time. This year's latest data is that the average salary is around 190 euros and of course nothing spectacular, and of course it's not easy to live, but it's clear to everyone that some of the effects of what we've been bringing, what we've been doing in this assembly, we can see if we want to talk about it openly and honestly. That's the facts. I am trying to make this connection, and not counting all those streets in Nis, not counting miles of water pipes, heat lines, what is probably uninteresting to many politicians in general practice in this assembly, but also in all of Serbia. Of course I want to mention this basic concern that cities, municipalities, our people in cities function in a decent way. Once again, I repeat, I am aware of all the problems we live with together. All of us sitting, MPs, city representatives, living with daily problems, wanting to solve these problems together and knowing how much energy we have invested to move something in this assembly, and of course when we mentioned the law on counter-guarantee, which was needed to be done in this assembly, when you know that you have been investing for a year or two years with European institutions, financially, in order to solve those problems and water supplies and avoid at this point my city having no water supply problems and that despite the dry months in August of the month and September, we have avoided restrictions, but behind this is the decision on counter-guarantee, giving credit to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and our desire to solve these problems daily through a clear vertical of work and this Assembly and the City Assembly, but of course also solving these problems through more efficient work of communal systems. Yeah, that's exactly the point, that law we passed in this assembly. All that is also recorded and characterized by political life in Serbia, one constant need for Serbia to get involved in collective, suicidal behavior, something that we inherited from the 1990s, where we are talking about impotence, where we are not investing enough energy, knowledge and willingness to emit that energy in every place, because it is the only way to gradually get out of this as we currently live. I'm going to mention another law we've passed together. I'm proud of some of the laws that we've passed here, and I want to show that relationship again with a concrete life, because that is the essence of this work, and I think we all need to recognize this work together -- the Financial Support Act for families for the second, third and fourth children. Few Serbian public are familiar with this law and probably many in this assembly hall are not interested in this Law, the effects of this law, but I am of course interested in every child born in our city. I'll tell you the data. In August 2002, at the time of the adoption of this Law, which helps families with another child 70,000, with a third 90,000 and 120,000 with a fourth, in August 2002, 220 babies were born in Nis. Maybe it has nothing to do with this debate, maybe it's not even interesting or important to someone, and what's important to me is that in August of 2003, some of the effects are seen in all of this. That law brought this city 380 babies in the same month compared to the 2002 moon. So almost 80% more. You may be looking for other effects, but this is a very symbolic data that speaks precisely about the effects and the pawning of a group of people, people who are involved in politics, who work in the field, who are willing to invest their energy daily and who have this kind of data and how important it is. It's life-related, it's dealing with what's the biggest problem and our cities, our municipalities and what's the problem of our entire country. So, this responsibility for the state, not only for the city of Nis, for all surrounding cities through co-operation, is all that enables us to have a new law on local self-government, which just stimulates cities and municipalities to co-operate and solve some regional problems in a common and smarter way. This law on local self-government does not refer to the drawing of maps and regionalisation and future solutions in the Constitution in the way that a group of scientists or those standing above the map will draw maps of regions in Serbia, but speaks in projects that are of common interest to municipalities and cities in Serbia and that will primarily be joined by projects to solve specific life problems, such as the treatment of solid waste, wastewater treatment systems, conservation of environmental environments, and this cannot be done only in one city, in five or more cities, this is possible only through regional co-operation, and these are just some system solutions that introduce us into some European standards. These are the laws that we are making, which should be supported, and it is possible to bring them in if we have order in this room, if we show enough readiness to invest our energy to listen to each other and I know that many political parties that are currently and in this debate have supported some of these laws. I think that's good, but I think it's high time for political interest and political activity in Serbia to be refocused from general political issues, general places to what it is to solve specific life problems. What we had at the beginning of this session and in this session of the assembly, that a large part of the parties rejected the proposed laws, such as the law for the adoption of value added tax, the adoption of the tax which is in some way a prerequisite for the adoption of the budget and the republican, but also a prerequisite for the adoption of local budgets. Which is why, and I see reactions to this bill on value added tax, a broader tax procedure, in order to respect what has been respected in recent years, and these are the perks to be provided both for pensioners and health workers and for all those who are in budgetary institutions, and that is a prerequisite for us to budget cities, I am now talking about the largest cities that have been on the rise in the past three years, in a way, rerouted to one section towards municipalities, and there are 160 in Serbia-Montenegro. Municipalities that need to be approached by tax procedures and budgets per capita compared to Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis. The new system of financing local self-government of municipalities and cities is precisely linked to this law on value added tax, the law on the financing of local self-government, and the new way of financing since 30% of local self-government revenues collected from sales taxes are now practically collected through this type of value added tax procedure. So, that concern topic is exactly that. This concern for both municipalities and smaller municipalities, municipalities that need to reach the growth that has reached at this time and cities. One fairer distribution and one principle that is extremely important. Of course, in addition to the principles of motivation, fighting for greater income, solving as preconditions for solving the biggest part of the problems we face, that is, the principle of solidarity because it is the principle of solidarity and towards municipalities such as Babusnica, Svrljig, Vladik's Han or other smaller places that have derailed the views of natural regional centres, which do not have the ambition to draw maps, but want to target their strength through co-operation with these local municipalities, knowing that their strength, the strength of these centres cannot be strong enough unless there is a test of energy and good co-operation of smaller municipalities and cities in the region. So these are all the topics that we are concerned about, our MPs, the representatives of the municipalities and the cities that we are sitting in this assembly and sometimes we have the impression that we are wasting a lot of time, that this time would be more efficient by putting that time and work into work in our cities and municipalities. Believe me, these effects and that sitting, it's safe, they give clear results, and these are the examples I've been talking about. I'm going to try to bring an end to my discussion, even though I wanted to talk about some other laws that have clear effects. My fellow citizens know it well, but the locals of these cities I've been talking about know it well. This concern of people who live with the problem that every morning in your city, in your municipality it is understood that there are drinking water, that it is understood that in these winter months there are enough mules or gas to be heating, that it is understood that schools are warm, that it is understood that it has been invested, in the last three years in the renovation and reconstruction of primary and secondary schools, as it has not been invested in the last 13 years, something that will record our further efforts, but also something that shows concern about what is called daily life, for care which means solving specific life problems, and not dealing exclusively with politics, which represents the policy of politicians of general practice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33813	National MP Zarko Obradović - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33814	We've extended the debate in 30 minutes, hoping to hear something about the agenda point. The previous MP has injured Rule 99(1) of the Rules of Procedure. He didn't say anything about what the agenda of this session was. What does the Law on City Finance and Municipalities have to do with what Nis did, how much did they get, etc.? When this debate is over, there's a debate about the government. Go ahead and tell us what the government has done and give us your arguments. There's talk here about concrete things. This is the story of the violation of the Constitution by the President of the National Assembly of Article 83, paragraph 8, of the constitutional introduction of the emergency situation, of the violation of the Constitution of Article 87. - on the arbitrary election call, on legalising the theft of votes during the vote, on the legalisation of the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia. So when I hear the raps that have nothing to do with the agenda, then we ask ourselves, what's the point, even a colleague from DOS. Whether they want this debate to end and to join the vote or they want to buy time until the presidential elections are over and then decide what to do with the assembly. I am fully convinced that it is going towards this other one because it is evident that there is no congregation majority in the way they would have wanted it. Mrs. Komic, I am speaking to you as chairman, please don't let the MPs talk about what's not on the agenda. The financing of towns and municipalities has nothing to do with the request for Mrs. Micic's shift.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33815	National MP, there was no breach of Rule 99(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Since you warned me that I had not responded as the previous speaker spoke, I answer to you: I have not responded when it comes to any speech by any MP in this congregation. The fact that MPs of the opposition and MPs of the majority had, in the context of this debate, a complete freedom of argument on the subject of "A debate on the resolution of National Assembly President Natasa Micic". I have not responded to any frequent remarks, and I have explained how and why, since the Social Democrats League, the Civil League, the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party, the Social Democrats League, came to debate in principle. He disputeth them, as messengers of the people, the right to speak. It's said in a grudge. The fact that some MPs in this congregation have been silent for nearly three years does not mean they have no right to speak when they answer. If you listen carefully to MPs, as I listen to them carefully, their argument is that the sessions are well-led because laws have been passed regarding everyday life, everyday problems for people. It is their right to consider it an argument, such as your right to use any violation of the Rules of Procedure to repeat your argument. It is my duty to allow all MPs, under the Rules of Procedure, to speak. Here you go. (Zarko Obradovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33816	Now I'm advertising Article 28. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which states that it is the obligation of the President of the National Assembly to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly is obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and the chairman, that is, the vice president who is now doing the job of the President, does not care about the application of the Rules of Procedure. Article 99 says the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. The Law on the financing of municipalities and cities will be on the agenda if this government endures another 30 days. But tonight it's not on the agenda. As much as we're trying to lead it under this general debate, I'm telling you that's not possible. Please, take care, you chair, and I've advertised, and I've told which MP, to whom the specific MP refers. I don't care what happened before or what happens after. You will take care of that if you apply the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33817	It is my duty to help you work with further information. I repeat, let's listen carefully to our colleagues. If we listen carefully to our colleagues, in the argument, we would hear that some MPs have one angle of view, other MPs have a very different angle of view, and that everyone has the same right to have their views equally protected, related to the conduct of the sittings and the work of the president of the Natasa Micic Assembly and those who feel that she did not work well to explain it in their own own way. It's freedom to argue this point on the agenda. I apply the Rules of Procedure so that all MPs in the National Assembly have the impression that they have the right to their free word. I ask that the meeting of the Administrative Committee be scheduled, as MP Zarko Obradovic is not satisfied with the explanation of the chairman's remarks on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic - the right to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with the explanation that Mrs Comic gave for the advertising of the Rules of Procedure by colleagues Obradovic - that everyone has their own way of proving that the President of the Assembly worked in accordance with the law and that this Assembly, thanks to all the reform laws that we have passed, led to a better living and increasing the standard of living, I will, in accordance with the fact that I am going to present the conflicting facts. First of all, the new government, headed by the government in front of Serbian voters, committed itself to radical changes in 2000. That's when they said, with radical changes, we'll start by ourselves. And what are essentially citizens then, and what we get and now, with the absence of important aspects of reform, wrong or no institutional change. Let's remember all these reform laws that were passed under DOS voting domination. At first, it was terrible, with the changes we failed, we had laws that we had changed for these three years and a few times, on whose robbery and non-economic objective, we in large numbers of amendments tried to prove and draw attention to the devastating consequences of all this. It is, first of all, the Law on Privatisation and the Labour Act and the others, so-called reform laws. There is also the need for structural reforms, unless the government considers them to be a chaos that imposes, emerging forms of privatisation, i.e. the sale of enterprises, its own, social and economic downturn of employees, those seeking work, pre-principals, or citizens in general, because there is no longer a category of non-hazarded population. One, we know that this year's decline in social product is somewhere at 5.5%, that we've planned growth and the government has promised growth, and instead we have a decline, and it's an unsustainable drop in industrial production. Unfortunately, we also had droughts, and all those failures related to economic policy, the absence of every agricultural policy. Industrial production in Serbia has fallen to 5.5% again after months of collapse, much more than the most cautious economic analysts expected, and this data has been statistical since the end of August this year. For the first seven months, industrial production has dropped by 3.5%, and the larger it was now in September, certain that the decline continues and that industrial production will be less than last year. Our analysis predicted these tendencies, we warned the government, but there was no one to listen. In fact, if we had previously had a point on the agenda of not trusting the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we might be able to do so, and perhaps the consequences would be less. Agriculture records a decline in production and real state in it, unrecorded in recent history and Serbia. This, in addition to all these economic measures or the absence of measures, has also been affected by droughts, and as far as I've heard of drought damage, Dragoljub Markovic has received compensation from the Serbian government, although it has 10 acres of land, 80,000 euros or so. Look out, he's a farmer, and I guarantee he got a walk for the drought damage! I can sign that, and how much I don't know!- I'm sorry. Then, by a number of estimates of the decline in agricultural production this year will be between 10% and 15%. The foreign trade deficit, gentlemen, has reached 9,215 billion dinars over the past 30 months, with a tendency to increase. According to estimates for this year will be about four billion and 45 million, I read this in Economic Policy on September 22, 2003, on page 15, Dr. Mladjan Kovacevic wrote about it. At the discretion of our experts, this year's minus, or external trade deficit, will be even higher than five billion dollars. Do you know what five billion dollars is? The consequences of the economic crisis are catastrophic because they accelerate the process of self-destruction. These are reform laws and those reforms that are slowly destroying us, and we are on a good path to destroy everything, to end it, and then we no longer need government, no elections, no Parliament, no courts, absolutely nothing. Our duty is what concerns us most. In August, it was $13.5 billion. You can call it debt slavery, a debt crisis, but there is also a permanent warning to the Serbian government, but external trade debt, that is what is particularly worrying us, not paying off, and we don't know why it's not paying off. Is it possible to continue to be in debt if we are not able to pay the interest regularly? This will have to be answered by the Serbian government and it is better that we have not even ratified what we have ratified, that we have not done at all, but that some praise that we have done so much, we have brought so much happiness and satisfaction to the Serbian people. Unemployment - 970,000 unemployed. From the beginning of the year, 25,150 employees have been out of work for a month. It's that famous Labour Act and what Mr. Novakovic voted from the "Cimiski" hotel in Thessaloniki. Serbia is flooded with unemployed working citizens. Who else can believe that according to official data alone, 32.4% is looking for a job. Employees receive frighteningly low wages, and in not a small number of cases, about 250,000 employees are missing from this charity each month. The new government is generous because it imposes a transitional misery on the people, it's a transition for you, a mystification of survival, such a low level that you couldn't even imagine, a mass fear of the uncertainty of this life, and an even worse future. Of this number of employees, $1.282,000 who work on average three and a half hours a day, and of them 194,000 did not receive any salary in July. They say about 34,000 companies should go bankrupt, and they employ about 468,000 people. Over 70% of the population lives in poverty. That's what you can't hide. You can say whatever you want, but every citizen who puts his hand in his pocket and opens the fridge or in the morning when he gets up, needs to share for breakfast, for transportation, for book, for notebook, and sees that he doesn't have and has to say - I don't, wait, understand what these reforms of yours, which you're so proud of, are water. On September 4th, Vlahovic said 850 companies have been privatised so far. What companies, how, why them, why at that price, at what model... We'll talk about it with Mr. Vlahovic when he comes to this parliament and when it's the second item of the agenda that I see you're slowly preparing, because you've been sleeping for three years, you haven't done anything, you haven't been going out for a pay phone, so now you're at this first point on the agenda when we're supposed to talk about Natasa Micic, you're warming up for a debate about the government. In any case, Serbia has a clear sense of privatisation of the so-called "privitation". The foreign partners have replaced the auction sale of domestic unclear money structure, there are yours with a variety of nicknames, I can't even remember their names or nicknames, but there aren't many, I'm going to have to take up until this second debate begins, with the current aid of a new phase that we can call brokerage and stock fraud. Privatisation is filled with an inexplicable budget, although Kori Udovicki says all privatisation money is not spent budgetably, but stands as some reserve. That's not true, and that's what we'll see when we talk about the budget report at the end of the year. We'll prove that easily. What you've achieved, you've really achieved quickly, it's to increase administration. You've hired so many people in the administration, it's just terrible.- I'm sorry. I don't know how many agencies we started. We had no idea how many laws that were just called -- setting up an agency for, so I don't know what, for privatization, so for this, so for that.- I'm sorry. There are a huge number of people employed, who are once again on the burden of the taxpayers of this country, because such a small state cannot support such an expensive and so numerous administration. Pensions have reached a level of insufferability. A million and two hundred thousand pensioners are really forced, and I think this winter, that it's wrapped in jujubes, and that if it warms up on a thermoaccumulative furnace, it certainly won't be possible. Today, electricity can no longer be used for heating, let alone for heating, thanks to enormously high prices which, again, are a topic for the Minister of Energy which, unfortunately, we do not have. We don't have three ministers, but that doesn't concern the government. It doesn't matter, they're in resignation. The government is waiting for it to also come to agenda I, either resigning or being shot down here in Parliament and is unable to deal with empty ministerial posts. The Serbian government is an operating body of DOS, which is in operational power, which was unable to offer a socio-economic programme, any development strategy, the way in which the citizens' perspective is opened. It has not fulfilled any of its promises, and Serbia is at this moment the scene of virtuality and false promises made by the government, unemployment, hunger and strikes. These consequences of the government's unprofessional behaviour are more than an excuse to publicly announce that as soon as they leave, there will be fewer future consequences. That's what economic indicators are about, because some DOS MPs here have been trying to prove to us that quantity is quality. Quantity doesn't necessarily mean quality either. It would have been much more quality if we had one good change to the Law on Privatisation, if we had passed the Labour Act in a different way than how we did, so we completely disproved the worker, not to allow ourselves to politicise the trade unions, to agree to take union leaders to Parliament tomorrow, because trade unions have to fight separately from political struggle. We have nothing to interfere with the unions and the government. We need trade unions and workers to think about when we pass laws, when the government proposes laws that don't contribute to workers. Then, as representatives of the people, we should take action and protect them, not put them in a position to strike, so the miners strike, and Mrs. Micic says - and we are here in Parliament as in the mine, our working conditions are terrible. Is that what happened? One MP sang the song "Mrs. Mine", so "Mrs. Mine" then gave a warning to that MP. You know, workers aren't meant when they knock on your door and ask for your support, and when they come here to ask for our support, they're looking for political support. They want to take down the government. We've completely replaced the thesis. We're supposed to take down the government, not them. We need workers and all the structures of citizens to think about when we pass a law on basic and secondary education, when we pass a budget law, when we pass tax laws, how much we beat them in the pocket. Now, that would be Parliament's responsibility and Parliament's responsibility. And since we are not, of course, we have submitted this proposal for both the government and Natasha Micic. Believe me, I had no intention of presenting all this economic data, but when all the mayors from Serbia can go out for this pay phone and thank Mrs. Micic for cleaning up the Danube, which has improved the waste protection system, I can go out and say what the economic effects of the government are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-28-0.u33819	This concludes our work in the afternoon session. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, on the fifth day of work. Please, in order to determine the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly, insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly and continue our work in the afternoon session. I am informing the National Assembly of the absence of the MPs. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Natasa Milojevic, Petar Misic, Juhas Attil, Pal Karolj, Branislav Kovacevic, Višnja Nežić, Branislav Pomorički, Pal Shandor and Miroslav Markicevic. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, the Vice-President, the Ministers and the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for the resolution of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by Mr. Nataša MIĆić (resumption) in principle has a National MP Srđa Popović, followed by a National MP, Bratislav Đurić.
