ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28899	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing four laws, one of which is comprehensive, and three are about changes and additions. Unfortunately, there is no Mr. Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy, to give us some of these laws in more detail. It's possible he might show up in the meantime. In any case, the SPS needs to make several principled views on the laws we are considering today, especially when it comes to laws that regulate economic life in the Republic of Serbia. I will begin my presentation by referring to the proposed law on Republic administrative fees. It is true that the last tariffs charged for administrative fees were established in 1998 and have not been changed since then. It is also true that there has been a rise in the cost of living by more than 680% in the meantime and that is one reason to increase taxes, but the moment in which this happens, the real economic power of every citizen and every legal and economic entity that will be obliged to pay newly established administrative fees does not correspond to the reality of these opportunities. In fact, the SPS considers that the proposed solutions and tariffs are too high and very few who at this time can endure, and without real consequences and by the standard of household to which certain actions are paid through administrative fees and by economic operators. According to some of the solutions present in this tax bill, it turns out that one of the better jobs in the future will be the one by which you will receive the right of an authorised seller of administrative taxis, thus increased, and thus collect income of 10% in relation to the prescribed fee. So, it'll be good to take one kiosk, put it in front of a state body, before a court, a SUP or a congregation building, sell tax stamps, and make a decent living of it. To many people who start business I would suggest just that, buy a kiosk, sell a tax, take 10% of the height and live well. This is the basic problem in this bill: I think the increase to that extent is drastic that there is no justification. If the parliamentary majority of DOS told me, so you actually passed such a law, these tariff pines, and at the time you were bringing it in, the fees were also high, I might agree. And if I had been an MP at that time, I certainly couldn't have a calm soul and a calm conscience to vote for such high taxes. When it comes to part of this law where certain tariffs are, I can say that tariffs have just been increased in those areas where they should at least be increased. In fact, they have a detimulative impact on many of the activities covered by these tariff numbers. When we talk about the SPS amendment to tariffs, then I'll say something more specific about it. So far, I can say that the fees are related to the conditions of starting operations in the area of fire protection and a few tens of thousands of dinars. I wonder who is in the interest of destimulating the pursuit of such actions as fire protection, certainly one of the important actions that are being carried out at this time in society. Secondly, we closed the discussion yesterday on the Law on Planning and Construction and you saw that the Tuczakons have come up with obligations relating to many legal and economic entities, including natural persons in terms of legalising built objects in the past. We don't have sublegal acts that will tell you more precisely, but the fact is that there are hundreds of thousands, and I'd say even a million objects that don't have a license. This law and these tariffs stipulate that in the future you will be obliged to obtain a valid permit and to pay an appropriate fee on that document, so I simply wonder if these solutions are in the law on the construction of the consequences of this tax law or is the opposite. I understand the view and aim of the Ministry of Finance to fill the budget, but I don't understand why we are now putting millions of citizens in this country into a situation to pay for something that is later, and how later, even a few decades later. There are people living in houses over a hundred years old and not built under the current law who do not have a permit to build, so they have to get for these houses a license to use, this authorisation is being taxied with an appropriate administrative tax and that is a new imposition for citizens in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the second set of laws, the excise tax, the profit tax and the financial transaction tax, let me say a few things about each of them. Here, in a very short law amending the Excise Act, we are actually proposing an increase in the price of all types of gasoline and oil derivatives for the height of the increased excise duty, in the case of gasoline by 2.50 dinars, and in oil by 1.53 dinars. We could have recently announced this law to hear the explanation of the finance minister who says there will be no increase in the price of gasoline and oil, but then the question arises who will actually pay these 2.50 dinars of increased excise on gasoline and those 1.53 dinars of increased price, i.e. increased excise duties on oil. If it is not for users, i.e. citizens or legal entities, then it will be paid by the oil industry and then it is 3.5 billion dinars of revenue in the budget, but at the same time so much revenue is missing in the oil industry of Serbia and those companies that are authorised under the relevant laws to transport oil and oil derivatives. The question is, what's the point? The goal is to fill the budget, but we will actually pump out money from Serbia's Oil Industry and bring it into a hopeless position, because I am quite certain that there is no possibility of calculating the price of gasoline and oil derivatives to cover this expenditure based on an increased excise duty on the burden of selling prices. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the oil industry of Serbia is in charge, primarily through the Yugoslav-Chinese arrangement, for about 300m dollars, that talks with the Chinese side are being held recently on how to regulate the debt. If you put an additional burden on the oil industry of Serbia with this solution and these amendments to the Excise Act, then the real issue of survival of the oil industry of Serbia will be opened, and for me it is very problematic and especially that we have not yet regulated this relationship with the Chinese side in terms of the oil industry's obligation to repay the 300m-dollar loan. If the situation is the other way around, we'll still have to increase the price, then the real increase in the price of gasoline will be not 2,50 dinars, but 3,00 dinars, because we have to account for 20% of the sales tax and then the real increase will be not 1.53 dinars, but 1,89 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28900	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28901	Yeah, I'll use the next ten minutes. When we tax all this and put the burden on the citizens, the users of gasoline and oil, then we have a realistic increase in the price of 5-6%. If we look at the cost of life or inflation growth in the last three months, or in the first three months of 2003, we'll see that it is 1.7%, and then we can draw an objective conclusion that the unwarranted increase in oil and oil derivatives is from 5 to 6%, as proposed here. Especially since this increase in prices would take effect the next day from the day of the publication of Ovzakon in the "Official Messenger", which is in itself a problem, especially if this fact happens at a time when spring crops are in the highest order and when it objectively affects the increased cost of sowing or the difficult conditions of peasants, agricultural households to sow the planned areas in this spring sowing. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act, it would be said that this is only a technical change that allows accounting statements in commercial banks to be brought into line with so-called ‘. International accounting standards and that this stems from the amendment of the Accounting Act, but in these amendments several problematic solutions. Let's say, if you say today that the business banks of their balance sheet will show about how business entities show, then their profits will be accounted for in this way and will pay the profit tax on their profits. It is not disputed, but when you look at the expenditures that you need to align with this, then you see that it is a bit controversial, because some of the expenditure in this law is limited, such as advertising and propaganda, education, health care costs, such as some of the other costs that are limited by this law and the solution so far, so if you go 3.5% compared to total income, all the excesses above that, as a business expense, will not literally cost you, because it will be taken as a basis for calculating profit tax. Here we have to ask a rather principled question, whether education expenditure, training of workers and employees, should be limited to that, that you are in fact economic operators, including banks, destimulating the education of your employees, and we are talking about a technological revolution, that we need to comply with the European Union, that we need to master new technologies and knowledge, that we need to gain those skills, and when the company invests in the education of its workers, in their education, then the state does not recognise that cost above a certain percentage of income. I think it's a wrong solution and I'm a little surprised that the Ministry of Finance and Economy, as the promoter of these changes, didn't go a step further to lift these restrictions and simply stimulate exactly the reverse process, increased investment in the area, because how you will win a better market position if you don't increase expenditure based on advertising and propaganda. When a company makes a million dinar revenue or some other bills during a month or year, some other coins, to double it, it is perfectly clear and understandable that it must and how to increase advertising and propaganda-based expenditure. It's the cost of winning the market, it's the cost of production, the cost of marketing, and it's not some manipulation that's going on to potentially reduce the tax profit. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that these services, which would be used by advertising and propaganda for certain economic operators, are taxed by 20%. Sales tax is 20%, profit tax is 14%, and the question is, where's the logic? Don't limit the costs of that kind, because if you want to, and from the point of view of the budget, it'll be better to fill the budget. From the point of view of profit tax, it's not a tax at all, at least on our economic occasions. It should not, in my opinion, be accounted for in this time. In this regard, I would also like to say the following thing - here is the proposed technical matter of simplifying the evidence of a business entity, which invested in its underlying assets or investing in its underlying assets the amount of over 600 million dinars and for hiring over 100 workers in these companies, thus obtaining formal and legal conditions for the company to be exempt from profit tax over the next 10 years. Now I'm asking -- why didn't the promoter think this way: in this budget balance for 2003, we have about 3.5 billion dinars of projected income based on profit tax, it's a minimum amount relative to the total budget, something over 1%; why don't we release all economic operators of the profit tax, but thus stimulated to invest in their basic assets and in employment over the next few years? Where do we come from with the idea that at the moment when every dinar, every euro based on direct investment in this country, we need a dry need to have a 10m-euro limit? So someone needs to invest 10m euros, hire 100 workers, and only in this case can they obtain conditions for tax exemption in the next 10 years. I ask - why isn't it a million euros and why isn't it 20 workers? I think that's exactly what it was. In the European Union, we have 20 million economic operators. Of these, 99% are small and medium-sized enterprises, 93% of these companies employ less than 10 workers. In doing so, we have 80 million employees and 20 million entities in Europe. Small and medium-sized enterprises bring about 60% to 70% of the total gross product in these countries. I wonder why we don't change this provision of the Tax Tax Act and say - whoever invests in their basic assets or ensures that another person invests over a million euros, and who employs more than 20 workers, will be free from paying taxes in the next 10 years. In doing so, the government is set to set up in its Ministry of Business and Privatisation, at the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign and Ministry of Finance and Economy, an investment action of fivem euros in each municipality in the establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises:180 municipalities of fivem euros are 900m euros, and in a happier version and a billion euros. So, we need to make a project to find economic operators in all local areas ready to invest this million euros in the launch of some production and employment of 20 workers on their own or with the help of their partners, domestic or abroad, and to obtain a legitimate right to be exempt from profit tax over the next 10 years. A simple calculation suggests that it would fill the budget more than is now thought. Because 20 workers who receive 250 euros per month, that is 5,000 euros. This accounts for commitments to the state in terms of profit and contribution taxes of 72% and 72% for 5,000 euros is 3.5 000 euros per month. In 12 months, it is about 40,000 euros, and when someone invests a million euros at a profit rate of about 10% a year, and in the best conditions, it will make a profit of 100,000 euros. Only 14%, i.e. 14,000 euros in profit tax, will be paid to that effect. What is now a greater benefit, these 14,000 that will be collected by the state on the basis of profit tax or 40,000 euros on the basis of profits made by those workers in these companies on an annual basis. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) Now I'm going to end up, I'm just going to give one plastic example, as far as I think I'm right -- when those 5,000 euros that someone took in terms of profits show up on the market and when they're spent, it's taxed by another 20%, that's another 1,000 euros of sales tax in the state register, times 12 months, that's equal to 12,000 euros, plus those 40,000, based on the outflow, that's 52,000 euros, and here we have 14,000 euros. And what's more important here, to tax profits or encourage companies to invest in their own production and employment?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28902	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28903	Dear colleagues, the President-in-Office, we have four laws ahead of us, the debate is joined. We believe that the law on administrative fees should still be separated from these three other laws in the area of finance. Now we have those four laws right after the budget rebalances. The DSS, when we talked about budget rebalancing, expressed its disagreement with our budgetary policy, which practically since November, when we brought the 2003 budget, comes from incorrect macroeconomic parameters. I remind you that in November and December 2002, the growth of social gross product was 5%. Then we were aware and we said it was impossible and that we needed to realistically plan the growth of the social gross product. In March of the month, when we had budget rebalance, this growth in social gross product was forecasted to be 3.5% for 2003. Let me remind you that in this transitional time of our time, the planning period by 2005, with macroeconomic indicators where the social gross product for 2003, 2004 and 2005 was to grow by 5%. So, after two months, it turns out that this plan is unrealistic and now we have to adapt to it. There were some adjustments in budget rebalancing, but not enough. I remind you that the DSS felt that the budget deficit, which is large, should be covered, i.e. to be reduced and that on the side of budget expenditure we have certain savings and certain reductions of 20 billion dinars. It's not easy to plan a gross social product, but the fact is that it can't be easy to put on some plan sizes, which are practically from what we need, or how long it takes for the state to make some provisions, not how much growth of the social gross product is really possible. The macroeconomic indicators show that we have a decline in industrial production this year, and we also have a decrease in employment, which at the monthly level, the latest data, went up to 1.6%, and when we take the relationship last February and February 2003, that's 17.9%. It is also a bad thing that we showed that in December and January we had a 18.4% salary reduction, a realistic reduction in wages of 18.4%, and then there was a justification for that reduction that January was a bad month, i.e. that in January many businesses did not pay their salaries. However, after that terrible reduction, February had a pay increase of 8.8%, so at the end of December, the index went down by 11.2% and we have a real pay cut. Industrial production dropped 3.8% compared to last year. That we're deep in the recession shows that the monetary mass fell by 10% compared to the same period last year. The only thing that has come to some calming down, can't say improvements, it's an external trade exchange, where the deficit remained the same as last year, with an increase in foreign trade on both sides of imports and on the side of exports. When we see this whole macroeconomic situation, and we have these laws, we come up with an old waiting period of all 50 years at the time of the one-party system, that the state knows how long it takes, and whether or not the economy is going to realize it or not, we'll see. Administrative fees are increasing. Surely, in the light of the law, the proposer should have presented a comparable proposal for the amount of current, valid republican administrative fees under the proposal for a law that has now been submitted. We are only given the reason that the Life Cost Index has increased by 686,70 since the current administrative fees were in force in 1998. But that's not enough. All administrative fees should be compared. It should also be borne in mind that fees are charged with the aim of covering only part of the costs incurred by public authorities in providing specific services to interested parties, i.e. individuals. With the analysis of the proposed amount of Republic taxis, we have come to the conclusion that they are too high an increase that will inadmissibly burden taxpayers highly. In addition, it was not sufficient to consider that the services of which the community has greater benefit are separated from the services where the benefit belongs to the taxpayer. The tax cannot be turned into a tax, it is only parafiscal, it must be below the cost of public service, because one part of it needs to take over collectiveity or community. By increasing taxis, the state limits citizens' rights as well as the use of public services that provide their services which are subject to tax. Our opinion is that an increase in administrative taxis had to occur, but that this excessive increase was too high and that it was supposed to be less than 30% on average. It is seen from the above that this bill does not suit us and the DSS will vote against in the first package of the law. The law on profit tax; as a colleague said earlier, it brings us compliance with international accounting standards. Profit tax as fiscal income is, unfortunately, very small in percentage terms compared to other indirect taxes. He, as a direct source of tax, is small in our country and that is the main problem with this type of taxation. As for the proposed changes to bank operations and compliance with international accounting standards, we believe that they should be accepted, so the DSS will accept this concrete solution from the amendments and additions to the Law on Profit Tax. Amendments and additions to the Excise Act; this law is preceded by a bile debate. I'll remind you of the time we discussed the amendments to the amendments to the Transport Tax Act. At that time, certain parliamentary groups proposed a certain elimination of the sales tax. I think it's the Social Democratic League MP groups of Vojvodina and perhaps some other group, and they were related to the abolition of the maput and natural gas taxes that are used for heating. That solution was not acceptable to the government. Minister Djelic advocated that the standard 20% tax remains. However, the promoters then gave an explanation, and we, as the DSS, supported it, that all types of heating energy should be evened out. At that time, the sales tax was already removed from the district heating hot water, so all categories of citizens had to be evened out. Those were the reasons that led the DSS to back that amendment at the time. Minister Djelic then reacted very unpolitically and furiously, practically threatened us with what we have today, which is an increase in excise duty. He is not here today to explain other elements besides his anger and vengeance to the congregation. This is also evident from the explanation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. I remind you that at that time, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group also voted against the amendments and addition of the Transport Tax Act, which gave the whole situation meaning. It is certain that the proposed increase in excise duties cannot be a substitute for what should have been done, which is the elimination of the sales tax on natural gas and lubricating. These are the main reasons that lead us, in addition to the general need to go towards a reduction in budget expenditures, not in this way covering these budget deficits, which is an increase in excise duty. (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) (Yes.) (Yes.) ) The effect on other branches of the economy on the increase in the price of gasoline and diesel certainly does not need to be particularly explained. As far as the draft law on financial transactions is concerned, the solution given in principle is better than the one so far. Since the formation of the new government, we are now the third time, together with the law on financial transactions itself, changing the law and going towards reducing taxes on financial transactions. According to government and Minister Djelic's promises, the tax was to be abolished early this year. Unfortunately, he survives and gets a qualitative newspaper. The Democratic Party of Serbia will support this bill, as we advocate tax cuts, so we must support this solution. But what's bad, that's two things. First of all, it should not be reduced at all, but to the total abolition of this type of tax, especially given that the tax is indirect and that such tax types rarely exist in the world. Second, the financial transaction tax is not some big source of budget revenue. He's about one and a half percent of all tax revenues. It's also wrong to be in Article 6. The law introduces as a newspaper the obligation of legal and natural persons to account for themselves and to pay taxes on financial transactions. Why isn't that a good solution? Generally, it's good that I'm a taxpayer and pays that tax, and not like so far, that's what payment companies are counting on, in this case since New Year's Bank. Basically, you can support that solution. However, the question arises - if this tax is to be abolished at the latest, I hope, by the end of 2003, why now do the whole new system and charge twice a month and pay taxes on financial transactions? I wanted to ask the minister one question, but unfortunately, he didn't think this law was so important that he would give us some further explanations. What is the reason for going to that solution; it is generally good, but since it is temporary, the question is why in six or seven months apply this method of accounting and paying taxes on financial transactions. The good thing about it is that the tax will be accounted for in the same accounting periods as the sales tax. I don't know what led the government, it doesn't say in its explanation, to introduce that bill; perhaps in some way psychologically prepare companies that are not taxpayers to account for tax payments themselves, which will later be used for additional value tax, and it should be introduced in 2004. Generally, there's no explanation for that, so that solution, according to us, is bad and we will vote in favour of an amendment that repeals Article 6 of this law. When all is considered, the Democratic Party of Serbia will support amendments and amendments to the law on financial transactions and company profits, and we will vote against the law on the republican administrative fees and amendments to the Excise Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28904	National MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28905	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked by Professor Simonović (and I would like to read on my own behalf) some of the provisions of the brochure that the Ministry of Finance and Economy - the Tax Administration sector has sent to the taxpayers. Of course, it's got touch points with this subject, and in principle, it's really similar things. This is about what's called. the calculation of the control number applicable to taxpayers. I ask the present MPs to listen carefully to what the Ministry has sent to their bonds. That's what they're talking about, first, about the model, and then they changed things, and then they're talking about calculating the control number by module 97. If we say "model", that's a financial category; if we say "module", that's one mathematical category. I will read what Minister Djelic says in a call to his bonds. "Accounting control number by module 97. The control number consists of two digits and is calculated by adding a number of numerical digits to the order so that it represents a numerical data. The obtained numerical data is multiplied by a table, then divided by 97. The result obtained consists of the whole part and the decimal part. When the decimal is multiplied by 97, the result is rounded to the nearest integer and represents the remainder of the division and is subtracted from the number 98. So the difference given by two digits is a control number and it's put at the beginning of a sequence of digits. That is to add letter codes" etc. Now here's my question: who understands what this is about? This brochure was given to Professor Simonovic by his barber, a longtime one. He said, "Professor, explain it to me." Of course, he was lucky to have such a client, that his client was a mathematician. I guess not everyone else. He said, "Professor, aman-zaman, save us from it. My shop has a long tradition. We also paid taxes before the war because there is no state without taxes, but we paid by having a tax card. The tax book was one section, so we stick a stamp on that section, so the stamp is verified (the same as the communists paid membership fees, something like that, many will remember). Then when the tax collector comes, he's looking for a tax card and see for himself, and there's no reckoning." But that's not all. We talked about 97, but there's also a calculation of the control number by module 22. The control number consists of one digit and is calculated by establishing the total number of numeric digits, consisting of the second sequence in the call to the number, which refers to the obligor code. The first string of three figures refers to the Community code. So the numbered data is multiplied by the first digit of the sequence, and the next digit is multiplied by the total number of numeric digits, reduced by one and so on, where the last product is the product of the last digit in sequence with the number seven. These products are added together, the sum is divided by 11, the whole remainder obtained by this operation is subtracted from number 11 and that result is the control number. Please, all those who understood, report to me later. For those who are not, there is no help. One more. Your martyrs are ugly. If they knew how to count, they wouldn't be holding scissors, and they'd be doing other jobs. I don't underestimate it. All men are for respect. But what do you think if they're wrong, what do we do? Irregular pop, wrong DOS in power, these martyrs can also miscalculate their control number. They make mistakes in the account and then they pay that tax to the wrong control number. Money goes astray and they can't prove where the money is. They can't justify themselves in front of the tax collectors, and the tax collectors knock on the door and are willing to confiscate, etc. That's why I convey the regrets of this poor Belgrade barber-sniff. His objection is justified. Aman-zaman, simplify this. If you're already taking their money, do it in a way that they know how you do it. By the way, let's not skip. He says the letter codes are only to be entered in Latin. I don't know why. They have the following values for calculating the number call model, and then it starts with "A" and ends with "C". A is 10, and the last number is 35. What's interesting, since I was learning German, I saw an alphabet written here, a German letter (the whole alphabet follows). But those aren't the only letters. There are other letters. I don't know why that German letter was preferable. For what reason it was favored. I'm sorry he's not a resolute minister here, because he's the author of this capital piece. If he was here, I'd be free to ask him to explain to me what this is all about. So, once again, those who understood, let me know. Madam President of the Assembly, I will provide you with a list of those who understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28906	Does anyone else sign up for a word? There is a word from MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28907	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will only present some basic intensities to these laws, which are why DOS - Serbia's reform will vote for them. These laws provide some macroeconomic mechanisms for our economy, ensure that this fiscal legislation is brought into line with the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro and enables technical harmonisation of our legislation with some international standards and certain obligations arising from the international conventions that we have signed. The tax on financial transactions and its reduction to 0.22% is a mechanism for reviving the financial market and allows for a practical reduction in the price of financial capital. For the economy, this is a double incentive. On the one hand, we have a reduction in fiscal taxation, resulting from the obligation of financial transactions, and, on the other hand, through a reduction in the tax on financial transactions, both the prices of goods and services are reduced, i.e. the price of input that enters into production, and in this sense we can consider this a good incentive and a good mechanism that can stimulate our economy for further development. This law also provides for simplification of the billing and tax collection, which is extremely important and extremely stimulating, because we are making all the laws in order to reduce the administration and reduce unnecessary length of procedures, especially in an area of vital importance, which is economic. In the case of the law on the Republic's administrative fees, we have several categories of provisions, and one category is the introduction of new fees stemming from new competences taken by the Republic of Serbia after the adoption of the Charter and the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the Community of States; therefore, some new funds are also provided for these new competences, which were previously paid at the federal level, thus obtaining new funding in the Republic budget. Also, it provides for the collection of administrative fees for some new files, for some new jobs, and it also represents a direct financial coverage for the organisation, i.e. to cover in the financial sense of these businesses. I would concentrate first of all on what is 90% of the administrative fees, so for those most common applications, submissions, applications; they are applied to the highest number and are 15 dinars, which is very little. The evidence of the payment of administrative fees was practically more expensive and was more valuable than the amount of 15,00 dinars to be paid. In that sense, it is not a reason to increase this administrative fee only that the cost of life has increased, but that this amount was to such an extent small that it was in no way able to follow the weight of that act, i.e. the basis for which the tax was directly paid. In the Excise Act, it is clear that this increase in excise duty on diesel fuel and gasoline is practically a direct fiscal cover for what the Assembly has done by liberating citizens of the obligation to pay taxes on sugar, on oil, on fat, on natural gas, on natural lubricating, thus providing citizens of the Republic of Serbia with an elementary existence, in those lowest conditions; therefore, practically releasing the prices of the most innovative foods, reducing the price of heating and thus indirectly affecting the standard of citizens in the best possible way. Directly, such avoidance of funds from the Republic budget implies that some countermeasures must also be provided, and in this way it seems to me that the amounts allocated in the budget are well balanced behind all these fiscal resources. With a comparative approach, we can argue that the price ratio of petrol and diesel fuel in Serbia after this increase in excise duty will not be in significant disproportionate with the countries in the environment, which is unusually important when we know that we are fighting the oil mafia and possible abuses, smuggling and gasoline and diesel fuel, and at this point, in the framework of the legal action, it is certainly one of our priorities. The company profit tax law is in line with the Accounting Act, i.e. with international accounting standards. That obligation had to be met by banks at the beginning of this year, and all other legal entities had to fulfil that obligation at the beginning of next year and this law was going in that direction, so that the obligation would be met as quickly and qualityd as possible. However, we are at the point that this law provides not only technical harmonisation with international standards and legal harmonisation with the Accounting Act, but also provides for simplification of the procedure for the exercise of the right to tax incentives, which will certainly mean and represent a significant incentive for investment and for greater employment of workers in our economy. Because of all this, therefore, because of the character of these regulations that are in line with international standards and obligations that the Republic of Serbia has taken on the basis of the Constitutional Charter of the Community of States, because of the fact that it provides incentives for the economy and investment investments, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform will vote for the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28908	National MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the National Socialist Group, and then MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28909	Dear People's MPs, I didn't mean to report around this set of laws, because there's nothing significant here but new expenses. I need to comment on some important details. First of all, it is absolutely wrong that something will help the Serbian economy here. This is not the way to help the Serbian economy. I'm going to comment briefly on these laws, and then I'm going to say something briefly about the Serbian economy. When we talk about administrative fees, they exist and will exist, the problem is their height and everything you need to buy a tax for. I have the impression that we're narrowing down space for which we don't need to buy a tax, and I think we're going to be in a situation where little things are going to stay in normal life, and that's called administering citizens, which is why they won't need a tax. You can't treat the budget story this way, if we think we're going to get what amount of money, in a mass of funds, and it's necessary for some normal life and for the state in one fiscal year. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, this is a classic charge. So, on the one hand, you've lost your income, and on the other hand you need to make up for your income, with this definitely causing price growth to a certain extent, it has to cause price growth, because these two items are a serious cost category in the production process in many areas. To return to profit tax; for me it's no problem whether or not that tax exists, whether we have it or not, the problem is, what you can see from this budget for this year, is how small it is. It is small because there is no economic production in Serbia, it is small because the banking system is so in Serbia. A lot of things and stories about reforms in all areas may have been reformed in this Serbia, but nothing seems to have been done in Serbia's banking system. There's anything other than a way to get a normal loan in this country so you can start a serious manufacturing process in some area. You need a huge amount of time to spend to have someone at the bank tell you tomorrow -- well, you can't get a loan. In various institutions, the agency, there were 130 programmes worth, so approved, and when they went to the bank, two percent of these programmes were implemented. Now I'm going back to business. This won't help incentivise the Serbian economy, perhaps a little bit of this financial transaction tax, but that's irrelevant. The essence of one government's economic policy and the state is in something else: the extent to which credit-money policy will affect business is working well. Every month you have a drop in production in the economy. It doesn't matter what year or month we're talking about, please, that's where radical measures have to be taken. You cannot treat and use terms - economy and economy in two important ministries, and so little work is done in the area. There are cities in Serbia where they work one or two companies, and all the others have stopped. They do not work for months and do not receive salaries, although production programs in these areas are excellent, export and for years they have achieved good results in the area. I don't know what the problem is. Do some new young adolescents have to say that they think that's what they need to do? Such a company has brought several hundred million dollars in profits to this country, and these workers in these companies have earned good wages and lived well. No one here can explain to me that "Delishes" of Vlad's Han can't work anymore. Also, no one can explain to me that it's important that we allow imports of milk and milk products, that we allowed meat imports, while the villagers at my place in Machva sell live cattle of 35 to 40 dinars. It's not important in the paper whether the meat in the shops is 180 or 220. Where does the price go now with 220? The question is, can these Serbian citizens buy that meat? Does anyone who sells that live cattle get money and invests again in the production process? Apparently, it's a little bit of a thinker. Now I'm gonna say something else. We've started a new fiscal year. We didn't comment on the end of the previous one. It has shown that the ratio of imports and exports is even more catastrophic. Please, over 4.5 billion is the difference between exports and imports, and again the loss significant to this country. Does anyone even hear what's being said from this pay phone, does anyone understand what we're talking about and do you understand that it's important that the economy in Serbia works. It doesn't matter, this is a completely different question, whether the privatisation process in the company is ongoing or not. It's important that this company works and that workers receive salaries, and then comes the second. Whatever company in Serbia works, pays taxes on profits, on sales, on services, and then you have a full budget. As much as we raise companies, put them in working potential and go into the process of production, you have a fuller budget for that. Don't let us do cheap political points. A large number of cities in Serbia, say Baji's Garden, had 7.5 thousand employees, and at this point, there are only a thousand and a few people. Eight banks found themselves in Baja Garden. I'm saying Baja's garden doesn't have a total turnover of daily money of more than three to four million dinars. So each of these banks has a fifti-fifti, which is 500,000 dinars. Is it possible that in such a city, which has solid conditions for attraction, we didn't find a model to employ the economy. Perhaps no one cares about Baji's Garden, Vladic's Han or such cities in Serbia, the great Jumko, MIN Nis etc. Is it possible that we don't think and employ that part of the economy? Things are simple, MIN Nis deals with the machinery industry and you have tenders, tenders are given in Serbia for special vehicles. It's just a good spray factory that did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28910	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28911	Yeah. That's what we need to discuss. We cannot treat or observe through these four laws the improvement of the Serbian economy. No way, it's small moves that might do something in a small area. We'll be against these tax laws, just for a reason it's nothing. This profit tax law has a good idea when it comes to banks, but it hasn't worked. We don't have foreign banks in Serbia, we have domestic banks, no matter what they're called, all these banks have entered payment traffic. They have huge amounts of money. We didn't condition them to invest in Serbia's economy. I was almost in the congregation for a meeting when the big bankers told you about the risks. The bankers can't determine the degree of risk. The degree of risk, which relates to interest policy, can be determined by the state. At this point, it's the government and it's talking about the level of risk of investment in a particular area in the economy. We're talking about those who keep interest rates. There's a problem. It's a very big problem. You today have a flood on the media of offers so-called consumer credits. Few people in Serbia take loans. You have a flood of credit for getting a car. Also, few can take it in Serbia. I think we should all be interested that many citizens in Serbia can take one or another loan. These burdens, if on the one hand we have price hikes, and now we're going to have a 5-6 percent rise here, so we're going to have some more pressures, so we're going to have troubles through local self-government, and there's going to be a significant flood, and there's going to be price hikes in local administration when it comes to heating, water, electricity, etc. That's what the state is going to raise, and I'm announcing it by June. Then I'm sure we'll have a family budget rebursement. We don't have profit growth. The budget doesn't fill in like this. I claim, and I stand responsibly behind it. It is filled with only good economy, good production and solid consumption. Please, gentlemen, if you don't answer these questions, let me say in a very fast period, if you don't create a condition for such a thing, I think we'll find ourselves in a very complicated situation. I understand the need for the state to take small measures, and these are small moves, move a little to the left or to the right of a certain cost, but I can't understand that we haven't done a serious analysis. I think this congregation home was wondering about that. Please, these days the OSCE is coming to discuss important issues here. The most important are these questions. I understand the need for privatisation, but I can't understand that we're not talking about economy. Then no employment, no social policy program, we can't keep making donations. You've seen countries in an environment that were under certain control, like we are now, after some period they're told they're gone. We have already been told that there will be no folk cuisine, but soon there will be no donations that will cover us in certain areas in the short term. How we will deal with closed factories, capped firms and the force of fired workers who have nothing to live on in Serbia. You can talk about that some large Serbian factory, which had 30-50,000 workers, was a product of the communist system. It doesn't matter what you call it, but at that time, whatever the company was, it worked well, it filled the state budget well and had a correct relationship in the banking and monetary sphere. If that doesn't work out, then we're wasting our time on all these discussions and on this Friday, we're not. Vine you work, gentlemen, you're in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28912	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must express my dissatisfaction that Minister Djelic did not find fit to come to the National Assembly today. It would be my turn that before the MPs start talking about the law we hear the exposés of the minister, but this shows the relationship of the executive authority to the Serbian Parliament and we are almost used to it. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act, it would be good to recall how that tax came into being. It came from two taxes (both 0.15%): to restore the area affected by the Kolubar district earthquake and those that went directly into the defence ministry's budget due to possible NATO aggression on the SRJ, introduced in 1999. At the end of NATO's aggression, a unique tax was incurred that amounted to 0.30% and was intended to restore the country. The arrival of the DOS on tax authorities gives it an expert tax on financial transactions, although neither the SRJ Constitution then nor the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia knows this type of taxation, and the original intention of introducing this tax has completely lost its meaning. The subsequent tax laws of the tax rate were in line with the amounts of transactions made by taxpayers. Now that the reasons for the existence of this tax have ceased, the government of the Republic of Serbia is giving us a new bill, and I think that we have already corrected this law twice and reintroduces in this proposal a single tax rate of 0.22%, rather than completely abolishing this type of taxation, as Minister Djelic has promised among other things. To make matters even worse, the National Bank of Serbia issued a warrant to business banks to set a tax charge for financial transactions at 200 new dinars per order, unlike the current 0.25% of the total value of the warrants, so now we have much more expensive payment traffic than we had before, although DOS and G17 plus announced that cheaper payment traffic. The very amount of tax on financial transactions is even 90% in cases of a few dozen dinars, i.e. for 20 dinars of tax on financial transactions you have to pay 200 dinars commission per order. Article 5 of this bill provides for the purchase of securities issued by the Republic of Serbia to be exempt from paying taxes on financial transactions. By law so far, only the first purchase was the exemption from paying this tax, and I remind you that many other products and these basic products, such as bread, milk, meat, sugar, and even medicines, are not exempt from paying this tax, so we see no reason why tax on so-called. Secondary financial transactions should be exempt from this tax. In Article 8. The proposal provides for taxpayers to draw up once a month an application for a billing and paid tax on financial transactions, which I think is too high to bear in mind that for all other taxes it is paid quarterly and that the tax duties on other taxes are often even 100 times the tax on financial transactions. We have submitted an amendment to this article and, if accepted, it would reduce unnecessary administration, both in the tax administration and with taxpayers. The penal provisions of this law range from 2,000 to 200,000 dinars, and we believe that this is too much, since the amount of tax in the largest number of cases for the accounting period of a month is a few hundred dinars or, worse still, the same penalty has been threatened and the taxpayer who accounts by law and does not pay it in time, because he did not have funds on the account, and today very often the taxpayers have blocked accounts, which is the consequence of course of such a policy as is being conducted in the economy. As for the draft law amending the Excise Act, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled several amendments. The amendment to Article 1 required that excise duties on motor fuels, gasoline and diesel remain the same because, in our view, it is unacceptable for motor fuel excises to increase because of the alleged deficit caused by tax release on edible oils, fat, meat, sugar, computers, for three basic reasons. One is that when the 2003 budget was adopted, the Minister and the Government were well-known for these parameters and the consequences of these tax exemptions. The second reason is that even when we adopted the rebalancing, which was the consequence of the adoption of the Charter of the State Community, neither the Government nor the competent minister took into account the consequences of the tax exemption for the products that I have stated, and the amendment of the Excise Act does not increase the revenue side of the budget, the tariff on sales, which is covered by the tax exemption, but increases the revenue side of excise duties and that is the key reason why this argument simply cannot be accepted. The real reason for the increase in excise duties on motor fuel is the deficit caused by the decline of gross national income, by increasing the number of unemployed, by the decline in living standards of the population, and for this is directly responsible, of course, by its excessive fiscal policy, the kind of legislation that this assembly, the Law of Privatisation, relying on a side of assistance that is constantly being conditioned, and slowly and insufficiently arriving, as well as the government's inability to deal with the problems created in the area of economics and social policy. Another possible reason for the adoption of this law is the European Union and the Council of Europe, which require that prices of oil products, or fuels, be brought into line with the prices of countries in the environment, without taking into account the consequences of the domestic market and the purchasing power of the population. That this thesis is possible, is an example of the price of electricity, and we know that in the past two years it has gone ten times higher, and this has been influenced exclusively by the foreign factor and the pressure of the Council of Europe and the European Union. As a result of the increase in excise duties - we hear on television these days, and in fact do not talk about the consequences that will certainly reflect the price of oil derivatives on the domestic market, it is said that we will not disproportionately bring the price of oil derivatives in the country with prices that prevail in the environment. Half-information is given, so the public can't even find out what's going on with the introduction of some new taxes. The question arises - why are there no increased excise duties on those products, such as alcoholic beverages or cigarettes, which have much less input in the overall increase in the cost of living, because when you collect gasoline, and you know how much transport affects the price of some products, of course the price of all products, and those for the widest consumption. All this affects the cost of living, and we have negative consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28914	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28915	Yeah. When it comes to alcohol or tobacco, unfortunately, the government does not have a monopoly like in this section with gasoline and oil derivatives, it cannot control the flow of tobacco trade, probably because Stanko Subotic - Cane Zhabac, or Milorad Dodik, is not available to this government or to Dodik cannot influence, the Frog and do not seek. He doesn't belong to criminal circles, in their opinion. The increase in excise duties is, in our opinion, really unnecessary, because we think it would be enough to propose budget rebalancing, in which expenditures would be abolished, those most criticised when adopting budget rebalances, which relate to unspeakable services, amounting to 5.8 billion dinars and contracts that amount to about four billion dinars. It would cover what is obtained by increasing the excise, and we wouldn't have those negative instructions. As for the 14% Profit Tax Act, the promoter says it is adopted to comply with the Accounting and International Accounting Standards Act, it is argued that they have changed the system character and that they should serve to encourage significant investment investments and to employ new workers. In our opinion, the profit tax should be completely abolished. I don't know how many legal entities today are doing business at all, but it's likely that it's not going to be like that in the future, by saying that we're pessimistic and we think there's going to be more and more of these legal entities. It is proposed not to recognise the burden of expenditure in the tax balance in Article 26b point 3) gifts, contributions to political organisations etc., and Article 26d, however, recognises, among other things, expenditure on advertising, propaganda, representation, which I think is fine and up to 3.5% of total income, however, expenditure on health, education, science, humanitarian, religious, human rights, and what we consider to be discriminatory, and for sports purposes. It also refers to the separation and sponsorship of sports clubs, and we wonder if it is normal to get rid of taxes, and that it is also limited when it comes to health or education, that political organisations cannot expect any gifts, donations, or sponsorship from businesses, in a situation where the state has not passed a law on the financing of political parties and thus showed its position not to hold political entities in the political life of our country. Until such a law is passed, leaving political parties to cope and finance how they know and know, thinking probably in this way at a time when they are in power, and what little the state gives to at least political parties represented in the Serbian Parliament late two months later, although that amount is sufficient for those regular costs only. I believe that the government has tended to tax, in fact, on the burden of expenditure, it did not want to release tax on tax-balanced legal entities that would eventually want to help certain political parties in this way. Of course, I'm not just saying that on behalf of the SRS, because at this point, and even so far, legal entities have never really been allowed, nor dared to help the SRS (I speak in principle), because funding political parties significantly contributes to the quality of political life. But when it comes to sports, then we get the impression that Mr. Djelic has really been pressured by someone from the government, I assume it's those who have sports clubs. We know Covic has under his administration "FMP", that Batic has "Worker" in Obrenovac, that he has taken over the players of "Militaryar", even the stands, as far as I've heard. Today sport, gentlemen, business, today and pioneers still have their managers in that status, with players traded, there are big profits, there is a possibility through sport to track money, and why should we all start sports clubs to finance, when it could be quite correct to regulate it. Let's say we in the SRS could start a singing society, we all sing nice, especially we like to sing that song, "We're in a flower shop," so that we can finance ourselves. Then the economic operators could give us some money. The bill mentions on several occasions the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and his decision, although the proposal arrived on April 4th, a month after the death of the SRJ, and should be valid, of course, and in the future; so there is no NBJ and I would like the minister to explain how long we will have in the laws of the NBJ and the governor of the NBJ. As for financial transactions, a reduction is proposed. I haven't touched the Administrative Tax Act yet, and in our opinion, the fees are extremely high. We believe that it would be much more logical and meaningful to charge the tax when the solution is delivered or what is sought before some authorities, not at the time of submission. The law regulates the charge procedure in two members, with four members as to what happens, but does not regulate what happens if someone pays something they shouldn't pay or if they pay more than they should pay. The state doesn't regulate how it's going to go back to the one who was a cab driver. We always have a situation where when the state takes her and how she makes sure that something doesn't stay denied, and when it has to be returned, it doesn't take too much care about her. According to us, the return of funds would have to be regulated by law, and that's why we have submitted an amendment to this part of the law. Article 28: "The amount of taxis corresponds to the annual rate of cost of life". This means that we will never again have any changes to this law in the section relating to tariff numbers and are taking taxis by tariff numbers, but each year this will be aligned with the increase in cost of life. I don't think this parameter is right, nor is this way of calculating and increasing taxis. Remember when we had pension coordination, then the cost of life with only half affected pension growth, and half the pension growth was affected by other factors, i.e. wage growth. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) Article 29 is absolutely unacceptable, as the tax should be a compensation for the costs the Authority has to make a solution. It is therefore illogical that, in the event of multiple requests, one solution is made and all applicants have to pay a fee. Because of all this I've put forward, the ambassadors of the SRS will not support any of these government proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28916	The word is held by MP Dragan Rafaelovic, deputy president of the DHSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28917	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous presentation doesn't deserve either the replica or the answer, but just for the sake of the truth to say that for the first time I've heard that someone kidnapped a football club and that it's owned by the city. Obrenovac municipality. So it's pure lies and fiction. Our football club has joined the militiaman. Many football clubs in the second league tried to take over, after the ministry abolished "Milicionary" as a professional club. Under the circumstances, once upon a time the Football Club "Milicionar" and "Worker" from Obrenovac made an agreement on co-operation, exchanged players, and what happened happened happened. Otherwise, the Obrenovac municipality works maximum on the development of sports, as part of the city, as part of the capital that will certainly be the site of major world competitions in the future. So these are pure lies and fiction. A worker from Obrenovac is the property of the Obrenovac municipality, and the club and players, and what happened was that we had a favourable contract with the former leagueman, just means that the opportunity was used. Otherwise, those mentioned have nothing to do with that football club. We from the municipal government help more amateur clubs, all donations from the municipality go to rural clubs, amateur and non-professional clubs. So this previous thing is a pure fiction, not to tell a lie; it's actually a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28918	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) We continue a joint investigation into the proposal for a law on administrative fees and tax laws. According to the order of application for the word of the MPs who want to participate in this debate, the word has been given by MP Milos Todorovic, a parliamentary group ofSSJ.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28919	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of laws today on the agenda could not be proposed at all, because we have mixed one kind of law in a united debate with three other species, they really don't go along with it, but what is there. The SSJ Parliament Club has several objections to all these laws. I'll try to explain them briefly. It is unprincipled that neither the Finance Committee gave its opinion nor held before the start of the session when the proposed laws were put into practice. We don't have a single government reporter, and that's what my colleagues said before. I think that practice should be different in the future. One such set of laws still requires the comment of certain people from the ministry, not to say Minister Djelic himself. Speaking of the proposal for a law on republican administrative fees, it is clear that this bill had to be reached because of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the transfer of certain powers to the Republic of Serbia. We have made our amendments to the amount and height of some points in this bill. I'm going to take the opportunity now to draw attention to several very important points that are unacceptable to us, to take advantage of time and a little more up-to-date. I'd like to start with a member of the 29th, who's completely unclear. I'd like to ask the law enforcement officer to pay a little attention to him. It reads: "In wartime, direct war dangers or emergency, tariff tax increases 100%". I really don't see why the fees, which are extremely large in this bill, were increased by 100 percent in the state of emergency. Many of them should be greatly increased because we know that since 1998 they haven't even been changed. But why during emergency? We've given the amendment to delete that member. Also, in heading 1. we have a proposal to change point 2) and read: "2) to give an opinion on the application of the Republic rules: (1) to the domestic and foreign legal persons of 1,000 dinars; (2) to the natural persons of 500 dinars". Why? The frequent changes in the Republic rules, the inaccuracy of certain provisions and the ambiguities in changes to the rules have resulted in an increasing number of requests for expert opinions. In the context of business, the state administration is preparing and giving an opinion on changes to the rules. This is a job that goes beyond anything else in its scope. In this respect, the functioning of the rule of law depends, inter alia, on the appropriate application of the rules. We believe that these fees should be increased in the lower amount that it is inappropriate to establish a single amount of tax for employers, domestic and foreign legal persons who have employees and individuals, citizens as applicants. In our opinion, it's absolutely unacceptable. Furthermore, we have a complaint in heading 30. There is talk of nostrification of diplomas for primary, secondary, higher and higher education of 2,000, 6,000 and 12,000 dinars. We have suggested that this amount be reduced to 1,000, 2,000 and 4,000 dinars, given the fact that a large number of young people are educated and perfected abroad and that nostrification of testimonies is a prerequisite for their further improvement abroad and for further continued work in our country. We think that these fees must be less, because we all know how much that's a huge expense and a blow to the financial stability of a family, especially young people. In the tariff of republican administrative taxis, heading 94 is suggested to be deleted. It is, in fact, a request to pass the employment exams. On the one hand, we want to stimulate young people to work and give them a chance to contribute to some community progress, etc. On the other hand, we ask them to pay 2,500 dinars to pass the exam, to gain the right to work and to get a job. Really, it's inappropriate. That heading 94 needs to be deleted. Finally, in heading 120, there are only some things that we have noticed and as a Party of Serbian Unity, we draw attention to them because they are very striking. For a duplicate of public documents issued by primary or secondary schools, 500 dinars are required, and for a new public document issued by an institution in the area of higher and university education 300 dinars. The amount of tax on the issue of public documents by institutions in the fields of education, schools and universities should be determined in an appropriate material situation for citizens. We all know exactly what a number of citizens are now in the material position. We believe that such things in that part, especially as they will be strongly reflected, should be determined appropriately, because on one side 200 dinars, on the other 300 dinars, they are collected and cannot be tolerated. It's practically a huge burden on taxpayers. We have to try to make life easier for people. The fact is that the fees were small, but in these amounts, if they are accepted without some amendments, which we have proposed other parliamentary groups, we will not be able to pay them, we will even contribute to the greater tax burden of citizens. That's not right. When we talk about the excise law, it is clear that it had to be put on the agenda because of the deficits in the budget of 5.4 billion dinars, which was achieved by the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Tax Act. The deficit is recorded and needs to be filled in. That's what the Ministry and the Government are trying to do with this bill. However, as far as I have succeeded from the proposed material to see, this Excise Act will not be enough to match the budget deficit that has appeared. This is about a slight increase in the price of gasoline. In the bill, this is presented without those 20% entering the price of gasoline and this will not be at the end of the price of the gasoline that will appear, but will be increased by 20%. But what's there is. However, it is clear that this price adjustment must be made due to the prices of gasoline and petroleum products in the surrounding countries. It is clearly a kind of pressure from the international community and it is clear that we must do so. Whether this accumulation of gasoline and petroleum products will now reflect and speed up inflation, whether there will be a chain collection of other prices in the field of services, transport, etc. It stays to be seen. I'm afraid we'll have a lot of problems on that side. When we talk about the Financial transaction Tax Act, this is about the reduction, although we had in previous visions with Minister Djelic promises that the tax will be completely abolished. In my view, this financial transaction tax was to be abolished, because it is too small under this bill and too small a source of revenue in the budget and it can happen that we have more damage than benefits, if we have in mind the state of the economy in Serbia, how many businesses are doing in a profitable way and how it will all continue. According to the SSJ parliamentary club, there was a reduction in the financial transaction tax, but it was practically to be abolished as promised by the minister. I think there was a speech about budget rebalancing when he promised. And in the end, we have a company profit tax law. It's a practical technical alignment with international regulations. I don't want to pay particular attention to him, because it's a technical matter. I'm sorry that the billmaker is not present here to remove the doubts that we as MPs have. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28920	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garcevic, a National Socialist MP, and then by MP Dragan Ljubojevic, a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28921	We have been discussing issues that may have come into play since the New Year's Eve, and there is nothing called the Serbian government's plan to revive the economy, to move production, to grow agricultural sowing and what is most important, as it continues in the coming period, to restore work and labour products. Filling the budget this way is the easiest part anyone can suggest. It doesn't take much wisdom to put a hand in the pocket of citizens, which is usually quite empty and where the people on the ground have poored, so we have now come into the situation that we have a small number of extra-rich ones, one of which is who knows which way it came to and on the other side we have the poor, and the middle layer or the civil layer in our Republic we don't have. The medium layer can only be created by production, by creating new goods. Even though we're told, we're entering liberal capitalism, and we're making laws for it. These aren't laws for liberal capitalism either, this is worse. I'll refer to the fees to pay for a duplicate that needs to be taken out at school. If 500 dinars of tax are required, the school must charge its work, as well as everyone who collects, then the question is whether someone will take out a duplicate of the testimony. If there is a nostration of documents, it is not just about foreign citizens, we have our citizens crossing from Croatia. It's a foreign country, but we must take care of our people. So that's where we don't allow us to find solutions, where administrative fees wouldn't adversely affect the young generation that comes to us. Other fees won't cover the budget. What bothers you, that's what we had budget rebalances a month ago. Then why isn't all this planned as part of these changes? No, because it wasn't sold to a firm enough to cover this. So the money didn't come in, the loans didn't come in, and that's why education's late on pay. Look, there's no money here, which means it's pretty hard. We can stand it, and we have to bear it, just so it happens this way: we can start production. The local self-government, which is still under the authority of the Serbian government, raises prices or announces, for example, one of the local self-government companies, a profit of 1.8 million, and the price of water increases. Such a profit that is not a product of work can be made by anyone. As for this part of the gas attacks, etc., do not seek justification that it is the environment and the price. Say, there's no money in the budget. Tell the people how much the price of gasoline is going up. That means how much the price of gasoline is going to go up. We have no guarantees, and experience speaks, whenever we raise our participation in excises, growth and product prices. It's supposed not to be like that here. We'll see about that in the field soon. We have the European Union's demands all the time, we constantly have the demands of other countries to raise prices. I would like the European Union to say this, raise the standard, so raise the prices. So, to raise each other up, to improve the lives of Serbian citizens, and then not a price problem. It's not a problem if two marks or more will be the price of gasoline, if you have the salary of a thousand marks or eight hundred marks. I speak in stamps, leave the euro aside, we're still old. Therefore, all the proposals offered are not reformal and in a further period, or we will raise production in Serbia or there is no progress, and we are pushing. Come on, let's all get together and start production. On the other hand, Micovic, you run the agriculture sector, let all pigs, or pigs in Serbia, be bought at the price guaranteed. When they redeem themselves, then agriculture can go, and we have a situation today that people on the ground can't sell to anyone. There's no one to buy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28922	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28923	Therefore, production is the condition of all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28924	The word has the People's MP Dragan Ljubojevic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here today discussing the tax policy of the government and affecting the government by citizens. The minister, unfortunately, is not in the Assembly, and it would be good if he heard what opposition representatives think about this package of laws that he has also proposed on the overall economic policy that the government is conducting. In the light of these laws, it is cited as the first reason for the dying of the SRJ and that there is a change in the law and the adoption of a new law on administrative fees, but the basic reason for the amendments and the addition of the law is that the state's cash register is in decline, which is the state in dubiosis, and that the state has no way to reconcile its obligations to citizens and reach for a new and even greater procedure, above all, from the citizens of Serbia. The main problem is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia at this time where it has had the opportunity to show and prove itself has not been involved in reviving the production and employment of new workers, means creating new values, increasing gross national income, so that it can from these real sources, from real grounds, fill the budget and reconcile its commitments. What she has left, given the fact that the economy is stagnating, that there is no progress, that even the economic activity in Serbia is dropping, that there is an increasing number of those who remain jobless, that is to cut new taxes, increase excise duties and increase disproportionately much administrative taxes. The rationale for passing this law on administrative fees states that the Life Costs Index is between 1998 and 31. 12. In 2002, it was 686,70, and as far as federal taxis were concerned, they were harmonised in December 2001 and in that period, and only for 2002, the increase was 111.80. Why, even in this case, when imposing taxes on Serbian citizens, did not access what was approached when the pension law was changed, or when pensions were adjusted towards growth gains. So, the state when it's supposed to take from the citizens, then cut up on the basis of the cost of living, because that's more favourable for her, and when she's making a profit account. Why hasn't the same principle been applied for both of these cases? So also when the state takes and when it gives to take one principle. We insist that pensions should monitor the cost of living, then we can agree on this, to remain this index of cost-of-life growth, but then to pay off pensions that way. Article 29 of the Administrative Tax Act provides that in the event of an emergency, administrative fees are increased by 100%, and that is a signal to us that whenever the state is in dubiosis, it can go to the citizens of Serbia and say that it is justified to increase state fees, because this law provides that state taxes under emergency conditions are increased 100% and can say that it is entirely justified that under conditions where there is a deficit in the budget we can double the budget. In this tariff section where the amount of administrative taxis is determined, we see that they are about 10, 15, and 20 times increased, although it is said that the cost of life growth was 686,70. For example, we have heading 1st point 2) to give an opinion on the application of the Republic rules, the tax increases from 15 to 2,000 dinars. I would ask the government's representatives to first bring here proof that they know they're thinking, and only then in this amount to charge their opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28926	The People's Messenger Golub Rajic has the word, and the next one declared for the word is MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28927	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a set or package of economic laws under an urgent procedure, and this law concerning administrative fees, corporate tax, excise and financial transactions. It is said that the aim of the adoption of these laws is to revive the financial market and simplify the billing of this type of tax. However, it should be acknowledged that in a situation where the economy is not working, when the population is on the verge of misery and when budgets are very badly filled at all levels, it must seek a solution. We criticised the proposal and the huge budget deficit when considering budget rebalances. The proposal for a law on administrative fees increases taxes several times; regardless of the government's argument that they have not been changed for five years and that they are almost unscathed, however, in these difficult times, they have been unwarrantedly increased in all the tariff numbers, especially in the start of certain activities, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises and private ones. They, as proposed, do not act stimulatingly and stimulatingly to open new private businesses, with new jobs, but they will provide in the budget, by adopting this law, an additional inflow of around two billion dinars; a miracle that this has not been proposed before -- because during the war situation, immediate war dangers and emergency situations, according to the bill, they double -- because there would be more money, which is certainly absurd. The law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act will exempt all companies that invest 10m euros and employ 100 workers over the next 10 years. This is quite high, and given that our country's investment is almost gone, how much it will boost investment, both foreign and domestic. The question is who can meet these conditions. It is okay to comply with this law with accounting regulations and to apply international accounting standards. When it comes to the bill amending the Excise Act, it is proposed to increase excise duties by 2.5 dinar per litre of motor gasoline, and to diesel fuel by 1.53 dinar per litre, which needs a republican budget to provide 3.5 billion by the end of this year. You bring relief in November 2002, a reduction in excise duties and sales taxes, already now this bill neutralises. Regardless of the claims that the increase in excise duties on motor gasoline and diesel fuel will not increase the price of these fuels, I am not sure and believe that there will be an increase in prices, and which will further affect the decline of citizens' standards and increase the costs of the business of legal persons. Today, it is extremely difficult for farmers and peasants, where they have never been able to do so before, not even at these oil prices, to complete the spring set. If prices don't rise, then it would go to the burden of the oil industry and other authorised oil derivatives, which is still not good. By amending this latest law, the Financial transaction Tax Act, will be reduced by introducing a proportional tax rate of 0.22%, while so far it has been between 0.41 and 0.22. The rate of the tax is expected to further reduce the price of financial capital, as well as reduce the cost of payment traffic. However, this fiscal burden needs to be further reduced and fully abolished in some foreseeable time. Socialists are pushing for a tax policy that has a stimulating effect on the economy, investment and development, stabilising public income balance and making a significant role in social policy. It is necessary to reduce sales tax and to exempt products and services that are the basis of living standards and to allow the widest layer of low-income population a better socio-economic situation. I mean, first of all, food products, children's clothes, shoes, school supplies, books, medicine and help. Taxation should be done with progressive tax rates, where the tax burden would be distributed as fairly as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28928	The People's Messenger Srdjan Petrovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milovan Radovanovic. The word has been given by the People's MP Emilija Krstic, there was a replacement, the MP Srdjan Petrovic gave up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28929	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unadjusted public finances, namely their projection by the Serbian government, lead to such proposals, which is the law, and what is the amendment and addition of the laws that we have today on the agenda. All projects point to this and it is unequivocally unequivocally that, after all the previous activities we have had, evidence that the finance and government policies of the Republic of Serbia are aimed at a mere budgeting. On the other hand, this kind of budgeting is followed by the uncontrollable spending of money that it's charging, which is money, you'll agree, the taxpayers. The DSS has repeatedly pointed to the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not actually have a real project to reform the tax system. If she may have had it in 2001, today we can freely say that as she was pressed, with a continuous absence of business, production, economic, investment and all other activities, she slowly deviates from what may have been a real vision at some point. This derogation has the consequence of further collapse of the economic and economic environment, and it imposes, as such, forced and extorted moves in the area of this tax policy, which should also cover and fill in the high budget deficit that the DSS has pointed to both in the 2003 and 2002 budgets, as well as in the adoption of budget rebalances for this year. As a matter of fact, we can freely say that there are no real tax reforms, because they should contribute to the overall reduction of tax burdens, the reduction of the state's investment in the economy, the promotion of investments that are still missing, and all of this is missing together. Now, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are forced, for example, by increasing the excise duties that we have as a part of the agenda at this session, on motor gasoline and diesel fuel, to compensate for what is left over due to the tax release for the mule, natural ground gasses jet fuel. The coverage says 3.5 billion dinar revenue is expected and all this is in favour of the proposal's interest to fill the budget at all costs. In fact, the government doesn't care about the effects this will have on increasing the cost and cost of business. The only thing that needs to be done, and that is to survive, is that there is obviously no other way, and as an ultimate consequence, of course, citizens and businesses suffer. As far as financial transactions are concerned, the DSS is of the opinion that this form of tax should be abolished, as was the intention and promise of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This would increase the competitiveness of our economy and speed up the process of harmonising our tax system with the systems of European Union countries. Of course, counterpart Petrovic said we would vote to amend and supplement the Financial transaction tax law, because we still think this reduction to 0.22% is still a proportional shift. However, this remains too high a burden on taxpayers. The government continues to persist in this form which developed systems in Europe do not know and is the subject of criticism from foreign investors, as it has the consequence of creating an unattractive business environment and an ambience for their investments. When it comes to the Republic's administrative fees, we believe that the proposal should also provide a comparative overview of the administrative fees so far, because the analysis found that their amount was too high and that it should be reduced by at least 30%. Of course, this excludes the federal administrative fees that have suffered coordination so far. Finally, the DSS has always stressed that, in order to develop a stable system of public finances, it needs to stop "blowing" the budget, with an artificial projection of the gross social product, with a high budget deficit covered by privatisation, donations that will be less and less, as well as of course credit. It should be stopped with uncontrollable spending of money, as otherwise this country and its citizens will fall into a serious financial and economic crisis in 2004 and in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28930	The word is made by MP Milovanovic, the SRS parliamentary group, and then by MP Nebojsa Jovic, the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Western developed countries 1% of the difference in the rate of sales tax leads to the shift of power. If that were the case with our DOS parties, they wouldn't be in power long ago. Why? Because as soon as DOS came to power, it introduced a restrictive tax policy, a single tax rate on all products and services, except for a few exceptions, of 20%; so much was the taxes on food and medicine, while some tax rates were reduced, but for some time it was the largest in Europe. As regards a set of proposed tax laws, it is the law's intention, when it comes to the financial tax, to reduce and introduce a single rate of 0.22% tax on all financial transactions, citing a decrease in the price of financial capital as one of the reasons. This means something, but to a greater extent means the flow of financial capital through the payment traffic of banks in Serbia that is not there. The amount is very low because the economy stands, because production is gone and there will be no financial effect at all, nor the collection of public revenues by the state more than ever. The reduction in the rate of that tax will only mean a declaration, although of course it is more favourable than it is so far. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements, we consider the Financial transaction tax, we in the Serbian Radical Party, that, in accordance with the balance sheet, periodic balances and final accounts, should introduce quarterly taxation, because it is more appropriate, especially in this situation where the economy does not work and when, during the transition period, there is a need for more fair privatisation of certain companies. I'm not saying for everything, but in certain companies, it's done in one illegal and unfair way. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, where it is necessary to increase the amount of excise duty on fuel, i.e. 2,50 dinars for motor gasoline and 1.53 dinar per litre per litre per diesel fuel, this will lead to a negative situation in the country because it inevitably comes from the application of economic laws, which is natural, to an increase in fuel price. This further leads to a chain of increases in the prices of goods of wide-ranging consumption. Who's the loser here? Losers are the ultimate consumers. They received fewer taxes and taxes on the sales of certain goods in November last year than they will lose by increasing fuel prices, leading to an imminent increase in the price of goods of general consumption and of course the price of services, as the price of fuel increases business costs. This further leads to an increase in the price of goods on the market, regardless of the goods, so that the chain of collection will affect citizens as consumers. What caused these relationships to be disturbed? It came because the government had passed a regulation on Serbia's oil industry monopoly as the only company that could import oil. The liberalisation of oil importers and the freedom of the market on these issues, that the majority of companies registered for oil and oil products imports can freely import this type of goods, will have a horizontal expansion of the taxpayer's payment of taxes on oil and oil products and, of course, the collection of a larger amount of taxes on this basis. We also know that you are aware of this, and it is inevitable that you will lead to the liberalisation of the imports of these goods. In the case of amendments and additions to the Company Tax Act, you want to coordinate the balance of income and expenditure, i.e. periodic accounts of the final account of the legal person, primarily for this year with banks and other financial organisations, and to comply with international accounting standards. In this context, you want to balance certain expenditures that will not be taxed and other expenditures in banks and financial organisations that will be taxed. In this sense, we do not think that tax should be taxed on all the items provided for in this law, such as gifts and contributions to political organisations; then investment for sport will not be taxed; we feel the same that memberships should be taxed to the chambers which are mandatory, except for private ones when they occur on the basis of free will; so there are a lot of things here that can be resented, but because of the time I stop at this, that there is much to be done in order to improve this law more quality and to find a positive application.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28932	The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Jovic, then Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28933	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the laws on sales and excise duties at the end of March 2001, and came into force on 1 April 2001, and as a reason for the adoption of such laws, you cited the need for a fairer approach to the taxpayer from the point of view of his economic power. This speaker was also then told that the proposed laws on sales tax and excise duties are significantly more rigorous than the existing ones. The proposal for an excise law proposes an increase in excise duties on oil and petroleum products. As a reason for the adoption of this law, the aim is to provide funds for the active management of the social and development policy of the Republic, while at the same time going to meet the European Union's demands on the level of fiscal burden on these products, but to a extent that will not result in an increase in the size of the grey economy. But is that so if the state is known to lose around 130m euros annually because of the smuggling of motor oil and oil. The data was published at the end of March 2003, and the team reacted to the Group for the Musculars of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, concluding that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Energy immediately directed an emergency suspension or reduction of the excise duty of 45 dinars, that the increase in excise duty does not lead to the sale of unwanted flows, as part of the market, which forms part of the oil industry or which neither went past nor the current regulation regulates, is oil and oil. If the problem were to be defined whether oil and gasoline would have to introduce new burdens in the section of the reckoning and the collection of excise duties. Almost exactly on the two-year validity of the Regulation on specific conditions and way of importing, processing, transport and distribution of oil and petroleum products, it experienced its first major change. Instead of NIS, as the sole importer of crude oil, this business will also be able to deal with other market participants, becoming excise bonds. The change in the regulation aims to ensure that Serbia's oil industry is exposed to competition and is not protected as it has been, and that the regulation regulates the harmonisation of retail prices of oil products, that this represents a significant step in regulating the country's oil and derivatives markets, and that, most importantly, the republican budget is the most satisfactory side. However, it concerns the fact that the total public revenues in January 2003 are well below seasonal expectations and will remain recorded as a negative historical precedent in any case. The payment of budget revenues and social security revenues of 26.1 billion dinars is 49.5% lower than the previous monthly achievement. However, if non-original budget revenues are excluded from the analysis, the decline in income in January compared to December is 51.9% nominal or 52.2% realistic. The direct causes of these movements are in reducing economic activity and earning the population. The amendments and additions to the Transport Tax Act that we have brought have created a budget deficit of around 5.4 billion dinars. The 2003 budget law balances the funds that should be achieved on the basis of an increase in excise duty on motor gasoline and diesel fuel, which is also done by the draft law. The proposed solution to the excise duty on motor gasoline and diesel fuel says it will not be more significant to disrupt the existing ratio of the level of prices of petrol and diesel fuel in the Republic. However, if we know that the increase in excise duty must be replaced only by the difference in price, the question arises - how long will it be a front for the cover of excise duty? In April 2001, we passed the Financial transaction Tax Act and it regulated Article 6 to be 0.6%. The amendments to the Financial transaction Tax Act abolished the proportional rate by introducing a regressive tax rate, and the height depended on the level of the tax base. At that time, we said that it was not good to introduce a regression rate, because the rate range of 0.41 to 0.22 does not lead to a reduction in the financial transaction tax, given that only on the basis of over a million dinars there was a reduction in the rate of 0.30 to 0.27%, so all transactions up to a million dinars had an increase in financial transactions tax, although we know that the orders of up to 60,000 dinars participated with 95% in the total number of payment orders. Article 4 The draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act suggests that the financial transaction tax is 0.22%. So we're going back to a proportional rate. This suggests a significant reduction in the financial transaction tax, but our opinion is that we should make a decision at this session, which we have proposed in the amendment, that it is 0.15%, with a tendency to be abolished, if we really want to reduce the price of financial capital through a policy of reducing the cost of payment, revive the financial market and directly affect the price of services, as well as a reduction in the cost of payment traffic. The reason for the adoption of the Bill on Administrative Taxes is that they have not been changed for five years, and the cost of life increase is 686,70%. I'd say it's illogical to double the administrative fees during the war, direct war danger or emergency. Under these circumstances, the problem is to provide budgetary resources, but in such conditions and citizens have a problem providing funds for their existence, and this should not be ignored at the moment when we decide how much administrative tax will be on this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28934	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28935	Dear gentlemen, it would be a demagogue story that we place budget funds in the development of the economy, I think it is unnecessary to use such a story for this speaker, but also to criticise the burdens to fill budget gaps is certainly the task of all those who do not support this work by the Republic Government. Of these several laws that increase the burdens, it is a characteristic imposition that increases through the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. At the beginning of the debate on these laws, I would like to say that this bill on administrative fees is unacceptable to me because it provides for a multiple increase in the amount of administrative fees. So I think that the amounts are inappropriate compared to the overall economic environment in Serbia and the average earnings. In light of the bill's proposal, it states that the adoption of this law will result in an additional inflow of around two billion dinars. Here are at least two questions - first question: is it logical that the amount of taxis is determined by designing and adopting Serbia's 2003 budget, and we will add budget rebalances for this year; and second question: why is Serbia's budget in the deficit and already at the beginning of the year going to cover by imposing high fees on citizens, if it is known that citizens are already paying compensation for the work of state authorities through other types of payments, such as taxes and other taxes? In the light of the draft law, no parallel review of current and proposed Republic administrative fees is given. This is how he tries to hide the drasticity of increasing cabs so far. As a comparison, the Proposer presented only the Life Cost Index compared to 1998, when the latest changes and additions were made, and a high increase in republican administrative taxis would inadmissibly burden taxpayers. In addition to the high amounts, when setting tariffs, it was not sufficiently taken into account that the services of which the community has greater benefit are separated from the services which benefit the taxpayer. The tax must not be converted into tax, which in the case of this bill is and must be below any cost of costing services. Such a high amount of taxis in the part of citizens' obligations in an indirect way limit the right of citizens and divides them into those who can use their right because they have money, and to those who cannot use the right because they do not have enough money, and by law they have the right to do so. We will give two examples - if a public authority has violated a citizen's right when exercising public authority, and a citizen wants to prove that infringement, other than the other costs he has to pay, has to pay a fee of 2,000 dinars to get an opinion on the application of the Republic's rules, as well as 1,000 taxes if he wants to invest an emergency legal remedy in the administrative procedure. Someone may say it's not about high amounts, but I would add that it can be true when it comes to civil-legal dispute, when a citizen enters his own will in a dispute and when he wants that dispute, which he entered by his own free will, to resolve. However, this is simply about the dispute between citizens and the state. Otherwise, more examples of high amounts can be cited, and here are just a few. Let's say, giving consent to the 9,000 dinar teaching plan, nostration of the school ID of 12,000 dinars, a solution requiring approval to enter the company, the company, the name - Serbia, come on, we can justify not some way, 100,000 dinars, although the question is whether it will be paid to the state to charge its name if it gives this kind of tariff; perhaps a lower tariff would be more appropriate and more profitable for the state. Then, a solution to meet the requirements of the 35,000 dinar training centre (see, that should be added, and it is a pity that there is no Minister Sabic here, and those local fees prescribed by local congregations to their fellow citizens). Believe me, I asked my colleagues from Nis and they told me it was as much as 35,000 dinars. Mr. Panayotovic, I have no one else to turn to, and you are such a striking character, so a Republic tax plus 35,000 dinars for a driver's license. Well, send a child there (I'm at that age when my children arrive for training), 70,000 dinars should pay, but fortunately he doesn't live in Nis. It's a lot cheaper in the firehouse. Furthermore, for the approval of test tables 10,500 dinars, for the solution required for the authorisation to do business on promotion and protection against fires of 42,000 dinars. I can't tell you any problems as the president of the municipality's assembly when it comes to fire protection and when the firemen from the SUP come and control the businessmen. Believe the burdens are enormous and there are daily problems. What I'm saying is, we had budget rebalances. The rebalancing envisions some billion and 600 million to increase in Serbia's MUP-related division, 400 million to increase in Serbia's prison expansion division, 200 million to the film town, which, by the way, was issued to Italians. Why 200 million -- well, you know how the opposition interprets it: simply, Minister Lecic is not only a minister of culture, but he is also a minister of the media, so he should support his ministry (I mean that part of the media) and his necessary similarity to tolerate what is happening to us in a state of emergency, and about the police state and prisons that we don't even talk about. I think we're all here to fight crime, especially the organized one, and that your division needs to increase, so if you need to, and we'll pay through these taxes. We can't let this country fight just one piece of crime. I would add the need for this tax if it is intended for these increases when it comes to Serbia's MUP, above all it needs to be aimed at combating economic crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28936	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Radojko Petric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as much as the Government respects this assembly, it is evident that the members of the government are only there when the government is elected. We have also now experienced that we do not have a representative of the legislator, or competent finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic. It should now be there to explain why this tax package of laws is coming to us, that is, why taxes and excise duties on some goods are increasing. When it comes to amending the Excise Act, the promoter stated that excise duties on motor fuels must be increased due to deficits in the Republic of Serbia's budget, because certain goods are exempt from paying sales taxes, namely: edible oil, fat, sugar, computer equipment, meat, jet fuel, mule and natural gas. To remind us that these tax exemptions were brought in November of last year and that the Minister and the Government, when they projected the 2003 budget, were known. We had the opportunity to correct that deficit in the budget, and when we recently adopted the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's budget a few weeks ago. Only an explanation by Mr. Minister refers to the income item in the transport tax budget, not excise duties, so that the draft law disrupts the revenue side of the budget. The question now arises which here are the real reasons for the increase in excise duties. The real reasons should be sought in the budget deficit created by the government's excessive fiscal policy and tax laws. Now you can freely say that this tax increase in the economy looks like you're putting out a fire with gasoline. Another possible reason is that the Council of Europe and the European Union are pressuring Serbia to bring its prices of motor fuels into line with the prices of countries in the environment, although nowhere, even though your regime journalists are reporting now from this assembly, none of the members of the government has provided a clear explanation of whether gasoline and diesel fuel will accumulate. In one part of the explanation, for those who are not reading the law and earning it, it reads this: "The proposed increase in excise duties on motor gasoline and diesel fuel will not significantly disrupt the existing ratio of motor fuel and diesel prices in the Republic of Serbia compared to countries in the environment." So we're definitely confirmed, though shy, that there's going to be a pick-up. What are the consequences of increasing the excise duty on motor fuels? The first and direct consequence is the increase in the price of these oil derivatives. The second, indirect, which specifically refers to the increase in diesel fuel, is that it will increase costs in agricultural production, industry and transport of goods and services, which must affect the rise in prices to a small, i.e. the decline in living standards. It is clear to everyone that even a small increase in diesel fuel is multipled to the price of goods of broad consumption. The question now arises why no increased excise duties in goods do not affect the living standard of the population more, such as excise duties on alcoholic beverages or cigarettes. Perhaps the reason why it does not increase the excise duty on cigarettes is that this government cannot control tobacco flows or that some members of the government are close to the tobacco mafia, Stanko Sutotic-Caneto Zappac or Milorad Dodik, or are working closely with it. I primarily think of Montenegrin Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic and the Montenegrin government. In general, when it comes to the deficit in the budget, it was very easy to resolve the issue. Only those 5.4 missing billions needed to be compensated by removing specialised services in the bulky side of the budget, since not one single member of the government has so far explained to us what this money is being spent on, as well as services under the contract, for which four billion dinars, i.e. total savings of 9.8 billion dinars, are two times more than revenues to be obtained by increasing the excise on motor fuels.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28938	The People's Messenger Radojko Petric has the word, and the next is the People's Messenger Dusan Ilic. The total time for the SPS hearing is 33 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28939	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, is aimed at addressing these four emergency procedures in the first place to provide additional appropriations for the budget as soon as possible. What is the economic situation in the country, no wonder the republican budget is not filled with the planned dynamics. Production's dropping. In January, there is a lower production of 6.2%, in February 1.6%, in March 6.4% this year than last year. Profits don't grow with the planned dynamics. Despite the decrease in production, stockpiles of finished products are increasing, because there is no purchase request, there is actually no one to buy that manufactured goods. They're unfavourable in foreign trade. At the beginning of this month, the government corrected macroeconomic indicators for this year, reducing the expected growth of gross domestic production from 5 per cent to 3.5 per cent, and predicting an increase from originally planned 9 per cent to 11 per cent to 13.7% for inflation. Taking into account such an economic situation, it would be logical for the Government to take energy measures to improve the situation in the economy, primarily through the dynamicization of production. When production increases, the number of employees will increase, profits will increase and there will be a place to pay taxes and contributions. Instead, the government is scramblingly seeking ways and forms to tax everything and everything. It chokes the work of both those companies and entrepreneurs who have so far succeeded, as much as to keep them on the market. About the sunroof of the citizens' standard of living and not to talk. As the government increases taxes, taxes and excise duties, so are other public spending users. On Monday, on the 14th of this month, the Management Board of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund increased the contribution rate by more than 5% in fact (from 19.6 to 20.6%). This results either in an increase in the cost of employers or in doubt of employees' earnings. Only an increase in the rate of contribution by 1% means a new grip of two billion 165 million dinars. This kind of government policy doesn't create any optimism that it will quickly recover the state of production without talking about living standards. Let's see what is concretely achieved by these four proposed laws. First, the Republic Administrative Tax Act. It is true that, due to the reorganisation of the SRJ and the adoption of the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, it is necessary to coordinate the payment of administrative fees for files and actions that have passed from SRJ's jurisdiction to the jurisdiction of the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia. However, there is a question of justification for a multiple increase in all taxis. Here we are, and to accept the government's explanation that the cost of living since 1998, when the amounts of current current taxes have been determined, up to 31 December 2002 increased by 686,7%, or close to seven times, whether there is an excuse now in these conditions to go immediately to a seven-fold increase. Unfortunately, the government has suggested an increase in some tariff numbers not only seven times, but a total of 10, 15 times, so that they simply don't believe it by over 100 times. In the front you will all be easily convinced if you make comparisons with current republican tariffs and new tariffs; normally, I am speaking for the same writings and actions. For example, to give an opinion on the application of republican rules, which will take a great deal, we listened to a colleague of Ćirkovic, when he cited those "great examples" of how simple explanations are given. So there's going to be a lot of such demands. Now instead of the 15 dinars so far, a fee of 2,000 dinars or an increase of 133 times is prescribed. At the request for exemption from a ban on immovable property instead of 100 dinars, 3,000 dinars or more are prescribed for 30 times. For a solution to determine the general interest in the expropriation of immovableity instead of 500 dinars, 10,000 or more are prescribed for 20 times. To give consent to the curricula and higher school program, instead of 300, 9,000 dinars are prescribed, or 30 times higher. To nostrification diploma for primary education, instead of 60 dinars, 2,000 or 33 times more. For secondary education, instead of 60, there will be 6,000 dinars, or 100 times higher, and for higher education the nostration of the diploma will cost, instead of 60 dinars so far, 12,000 or 200 times more. I can't really justify such enormous increases. Secondly, changes to the Company Tax Act are also calculated to charge taxes as soon as possible. The Socialist Party of Serbia MPs will discuss this more once the law is discussed in detail. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Excise Act -- it is a completely unargumented argument of the government to increase the excise duties on motor gasoline by 2.5 dinar per litre, and for diesel fuel by 1.53 dinar per litre. The government in materials explains that it is doing so because in November 2002 this assembly reduced taxes and excise duties, part on the government's proposal, and part on the proposal of MPs, and now, therefore, it cannot be charged to the planned revenues of the republic's budget. I guess we haven't forgotten that this year's budget was adopted in December, i.e. After amending the Excise Act and the Transport Tax Act. Clearly, the basic question is on the other side. In total, budget revenues are not realised, not what the government says because of these tax and excise cuts, because they came before the budget came. How will the increase in excise duties affect the standard of citizens, the economy and the oil industry? In the materials, I have not seen an explanation of the government in terms of the recent statement by the minister, that even with us, oil derivatives will fall depending on the trend in oil prices on the world market. As prices fall, we should have cheaper gasoline and oil. Fourthly, the shortest comment is needed on the amendment of the Financial transaction Tax Act. That tax should be abolished. Taxes are already paid once for the services of paying companies. Recharge him now there's no excuse. It was different when we were imposed on sanctions, when we had a blockade, NATO destruction. Finally, the solution to achieving the necessary budgetary revenues is not to increase the taxation of everything, but rather to more significant start-up of business activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28940	According to Business, there is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28941	We've been working here for two hours with 45-50 deputies in the O.R. Please determine the quorum. If others are already walking the city, let's go out and have a look at how spring came to Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28942	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 82. Article 82 regulates the determination of quorum. It was a commercial violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum to work with. The next reported one is MP Dusan Ilic, the Democratic Party of Serbia. The MP Dusan Ilic is not here. The next reported one is MP Zlatan Jovanovic, the Serbian Radical Party. The Serbian Radical Party's total remaining time is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28943	Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the quorum is strained, the fact remains that in this room there are thirty MPs of the ruling coalition, that such a situation has been in this room for a long time and that many laws here have been passed by a suspicious majority, and for a year all laws have been passed illegally, many MPs and should not sit here because they are no longer MPs. As far as the laws on the agenda are concerned, there are four laws in the tax area. It is also disputed that there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. there is no finance minister here, who is the proposing and should have carried out the Assembly here on these bill proposals, especially in the context of one complete law, and three are amendments and additions. It would be normal for the minister to come, inform us more about this bill. Since time is short, I'm just going to look back at all these, or most of these suggestions. The first is the law on Republic administrative fees. It is a complete law that, as we heard in the debate, the previous tax law increases multiplely. It is illogical, according to the explanation, that prices and living costs have been increased over the past few years, since the tax has not been changed, by 600% etc. So, about six or seven times. It's illogical to increase taxes 30 or more times. If prices have been increased six or seven times, then so should taxes, at least, not to increase some taxes 30 or more times. As regards the Financial transaction Tax Act, the basic objection, which is said in the previous debate, is related to Article 6. In fact, Article 6 now establishes the obligation of taxpayers to account for the amount of this tax, to make payments and to report to the tax administration by the 10th month every month on the amount of this tax for the previous month. That obligation so far had a bank, a payer, and since the banks and the National Bank are taking you, we heard here, for their services, 200 dinars per order, it would be quite logical for them to keep this obligation in the next period, because this will make business more difficult. This is not about large amounts of funds, as is the complicated way and an increased administration for taxpayers. As for the excise law, it's already the third or fourth time before us in these two years, there's always something changing, and now there's a shift in excise duties on motor gasoline and diesel fuel. A few days ago, Energy Minister, Mrs. Kori Udovici announced even the cost of motor gasoline and diesel fuel, which is explained by the decline in the price of crude oil on the world market. Now suddenly we come before the Assembly with a demand to increase excise duties, which will likely lead to an increase and retail prices. Here, the ministry lady claims it won't be a case, and now I'm asking a question -- if the retail prices don't increase, whose damage is now the increase in excise duties? If we've increased the excise on gasoline from 18 to 23.15 dinars and we add 20% of the sales tax to that, whose damage is that? At the expense of NIS, right? If it's on NIS, the price fell 15 days ago, and these prices last for a long period of time and excise duties are adjusted three months ago; the excise tax has been increased by three dinars, right? Whose damage it is to; if it is to the detriment of NIS, then NIS goes into losses, and if NIS with this will not go into losses, that means that his earnings were inadequate, or too high in the previous period. It seems to me that the government's intention is to make NIS go into losses, to go into bankruptcy, to get as fast as possible and sell as cheaply as possible. Finally, since time is running out, I just want to thank Mr. Dragan Tomic, who mentioned Bajina Basta in his presentation and the problems of Bajina Basta's economy, and I completely agree with all his estimates, all this is the case, but only for the sake of the public to say that Mr. Tomic was well informed because he was a guest of the Democratic Party's Municipal Committee in Baja Basta.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28944	The word has been issued by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, the next reported MP, Zoran Krasic. The total SPS time is 27 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28945	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I must express my regret that this debate is being held in total media darkness, without TV transmission. The people of these four laws, which, through the will of the DOS, will be deprived of the time for discussion, directly hit and hit in the pocket, and there is no way to hear anything. This quadruple reduction of time also means that, here, and about a law that contains only two members, a man can only touch certain questions. I'm going to say a few words about a law that has two members, which is the Excise Act. When a budget rebalancing was recently adopted in this home, it was clear that there would be an increase in excise duties on diesel fuel and gasoline, it was clear that this would establish and push an additional three billion dinars into the budget. Today it has already increased to 3.5 billion dinars. When we talk about media darkness, the press only brings the agendas of this session and nothing else, the press is still in a state of emergency, it can't publish anything, it can't say pop-pop, it can't say bobu-bob. In order for the government to announce a price increase in excise duties and an increase in excise duties at all, as announced, it did not accidentally, but came in, to express myself in some language of officer, in so-called. Artillery preparation of the attack on the oil industry, so Mr. Djelic, who is absent today, used very incorrectly the meeting of the Yugoslav Oil and Gas Association, dropped a light of fire on Serbia's oil industry to create some ground for what is being done today. I'll quote a few headlines from the press because I didn't attend that JONG session; the press wrote; "There's no full liberalisation due to the oil mafia," "NIS under the scope of the tax administration", "Priority - the fight against the oil mafia". Not to quote further, it is obvious that this kind of artillery attack on NIS Mr. Djelic created an atmosphere that is still ruling in NIS today, and we don't have a director of NIS, we have a V.D. or an offender, and twice before this assembly he passed the law, and he had to extend the V.D. Director of NIS. All of this is held in some kind of fluid state, so that NIS will calm down and accept everything the government is looking for. However, when it all worked out with NIS leadership, we got an increase in excise duties. I'd like to remind the ministry lady who's here to be a member of the 17. The Excise Act says in a way that increases excise duties, that they have to monitor the cost of living. Unfortunately, the government doesn't change that member this time, it goes to a direct flat-rate excise increase. If the government wants it that way, it has to change both this member or at least say in it and add that the government can also propose a change in excise duties without them changing on the basis of a rise in cost of life. As a businessman and an MP, I must tell you, I trusted Mr. Secretary, because he has repeatedly sworn in respect of the law, but now I am quite clear that he has completely given up on it. It doesn't turn out for sure that the cost of living is 30%, as the excise increases, because we know that the cost growth is only about 2%. Therefore, all that is being done today, and what the MPs of the Serbian Parliament will be involved in, is that they vote against the laws they have passed, that is, Article 17. Unfortunately, the energy minister, Mrs. Udovici, has announced that excise duties will change every month. I wonder if every month the excise duties will come to this house or if the government will make an effort to propose an amendment to Article 17. On the basis of which they will be able to do the job. I regret that there is no Mr. Djelic, I believe that he is doing this under great pressure, but I must remind him, since he has been abroad for a long time, the most famous Serbian finance minister, Mr. Pachu, who was appointed by the king, but when the king asked him for the means to organize the wedding dinner, Pachu answered him - excuse him, Mr. King, there is no means for you, take the funds and pay from your own budget. So, Mr. Djelic, use the examples of this great financial expert, the one Yugoslavia knows and appreciates. So I must remind you once again, dear fellow MPs, if this is how it goes to increase the price of gasoline and oil, that NIS will run out of 65m euros this year, and I suppose Djelic knows, too, everyone knows that the NIS reconstruction plan provides for about 45 billion euros each year, if we want to bring NIS in 3.5 years to the level at which it can compete Europe. That is why I think it is most correct that this bill is withdrawn from the procedure and that excise duties are determined for other products that are much more acceptable, such as tobacco, such as alcohol, so that in this way the 3.5 billion missing budgets are practically forced out, so that in this most recent way, the law passed by this house and which Minister Djelic signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28946	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, and the first speaker in the afternoon session will be MP Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28947	Today, on these four draft laws, we have a follow-up discussion on budget rebalancing from a month ago. Then it was said that this rebalancing was the last time, and here it came that the revenue side had to be changed. The way in which income is changed and missing funds are sought only proves that the executive power is in a state of decomposition, i.e. internal collapse. Why is he in that condition? For one simple reason, it should be noted by the authorities that all the reforms that have been made have been in the function of destruction and stopping life in Serbia. So we have negative rates, negative indices according to all economic indicators of industrial and economic development. This is happening to us for the simple reason that all we are offered as a reform is not a fundamental reform but a blockade and a little life in Serbia. Tax reform has collapsed. Pay traffic, too. What else can we expect if there is no assistance from abroad, and there is no cumulative and reproductive capacity, no state, no economy. Of course, it must start with a new grip, even in the form of an excise lift. I don't want to talk about legal reasons, because almost all the proposed solutions are legally nebulous and they don't deserve any particular comment. In the case of a change in the excise law, we will have in the same article the indexed amounts and the non-indecated amounts of excise duties. Of course, our promoter went one step further, so he introduced an indexation of the administrative fee, something that is absolutely impossible, because it shows that practically our promoter doesn't know what administrative tax is. The administrative fee shall be a folkly explained ordinary mark which shall be glued to the request and any submission submitted to the Authority, i.e. which party shall communicate with the authority. It should be something symbolic, as a sign of seriousness that the party has filed a request. If it wasn't for that tax, it could be assumed that someone was joking when he spoke to the organ. That's the definition of that administrative fee. However, we are now getting an impression on the basis of this bill that this is a significant tax source, that this is a significant public income, and so what is symbolic and gesture of seriousness has become a very important and important item. Some taxis can also be understood, and high, when it comes to certain specific rights, where the party addresses the request of the state authority. It is likely that some changes should be made due to the redistribution of jurisdiction and the relationship between what remains of the Federal State and the Republic, as many administrative matters have also moved on to the Republic. How to interpret them is a tax where a man must address himself for the protection of his right, huge fees on complaints, complaints and other submissions that protect rights against an authority that has decided on the rights and interests of a particular citizen. In this way, the government shows that it is expensive and dangerous if we address it and the state authorities to protect our rights. Probably a large number of people won't even show up for some rights, because they're unable to provide the requested document. And certainly in the story of taxes, it should be said that these counters buy and demand forms, photocopied, cost a few dozen dinars. Here's a friend of mine complains that there's nowhere in Belgrade to buy a request for an arms list to carry, or hold a weapon, etc. He's gone, so go to the police and see what his price is. If these symbolic little things provide such great resources, then it's proof that we have an Argentine script ahead of us, directed by some people who have come from three beautiful abroad, so they're just wondering what's been going on here for the past 12 years. They're giving us some unsuspecting lectures on the loss of two-thirds of the social product. They were sent by those who destroyed our product and who bombed us. It is this assembly's fault that it has given support to diletes expelled from three countries, wonderfully some experts who prove their intricacies here and experience great applause, and the ministries have no money for neither fuel nor paper; go to the register and see if you can charge your expenses. You're paying for this bill, which means we'll see how this government falls apart even faster, and she deserves it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28948	We'd like to finish this morning's session. The session continues at 15.00 hours, the first registered Marko Culibrk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28949	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word is made by MP Marko Culibrk, and then by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28950	Dear People's MPs, these four laws of the so-called a set of tax laws reflect the state of tax reform and the situation in economic reforms; or rather, the absence of some economic policy that the government is trying to implement. Taxes are growing, unemployment is growing, industrial production is dropping, and the budget is becoming slower and slower. As a result, the government is trying to increase excise duties, financial transaction taxes, introduce new and larger taxis and more stringent bank conditions to fill the budget. Also, in this set of tax laws, it is due to add a decision made last week on the Pension Fund Management Board -- an increase in pension and disability insurance contributions by 1%, which will also reflect negatively on our economy. When it comes to the Excise Act, until a few months ago, the reduction of excise duties on oil, sugar and other life supplies, also the reduction of excise duties on lubricating and gas was promoted by the government as one reform event was exploited as a discharge of the economy and the population, as a help to further relieve and reduce taxes. However, we now see that the budget is recharged with excise duties on motor gasoline and diesel fuel. The explanation is pretty vague. It has been said that the budget has been consolidated with a reduction in excise duties of 5.4 billion, and the simple bill says that, based on the introduction of these excise duties, the budget will certainly be charged with over 10 billion dinars, which also says the budget is in very difficult shape. The explanation that the increase in excise duties will contribute to a low price with the surrounding countries can also be seen as a recommendation from abroad; however, there should be other recommendations, in particular the European Commission, which said in last year's report that the unemployment situation in Serbia is between 40 per cent and 50% of the working age population and that our Government almost touched the problem. As far as the Financial transaction Act is concerned, we believe that even under agreement with the finance minister, the transaction tax should have been abolished. Perhaps we should remind ourselves of the genealogy of the creation of this tax, it was created as a tax on SDK, it was 0.15%, and we can see it justified when there were about 14,000 employees in that service. However, now that the payment turnover has moved to business banks, we cannot approve the existence of this tax and we believe it would be celibate to abolish it, and that bringing it down to a proportional ratio of 0.22% will not contribute to the redundancy of the economy or to a reduction in prices. When it comes to the Tax Law, we believe that the provision of a percentage of the cost of living in the last four or five years of six times does not justify an increase in the price of certain taxis as many as 100 or 200 times. But since that's what my colleagues were talking about, I wouldn't be talking about it right now. What is the cause of this situation and how can it be corrected? First of all, budget planning at the start of the deficit. For three years, we have proven and tried to prove that it is not good that the budget is planned with the deficit and that it will be very difficult to fill. However, the government has its reasons and this is proving to be very bad. Afterward, many today talked about the situation in the economy. The economy is in a difficult situation, and we believe that these loans, which are obtained for budgeting, such as this one from a few days ago of $137 million, would be much better used to improve the situation in the economy, that, as in the surrounding countries in transition, and above all in Slovenia, all companies with a chance to survive. In Slovenia, they did not allow any businesses to fail. It received loans from business banks or even directly from the government, so they managed to retain their capacity and achieve competitiveness. The way it's done with us, that companies that have a chance are deliberately pushed into bankruptcy will not do us any good to our country or to this government. The other thing is the reduction of the bureaucratic apparatus. One way is to reduce administration. Not only has there not been a reduction in the administrative apparatus since 2000, but it has even been booming. Do any of us MPs today know how much our government has in the first place, how many ministers, how many agencies, how many on the republican level, and how many on some regional levels? There has been a boom of administration at all levels and an increase of employees outside the economy. These are some things that the government could deal with, balance the budget and the relationship of the economy and out of business.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28951	The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic. It's the last reported MP for this agenda item.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28952	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning, I would like to thank you for welcoming Ambassador Mucic for the second time in the parliamentary benches. But I can't forgive Mr. Minister for not attending this session today, and the other reason I can't forgive him is because he welcomed me with the bankruptcy of the republican budget, including the jury accounts of the assembly. Some of the things we suggested in December of the month, at this point, proved to be true and true. Often changes in tax laws and decisions, above all in the area of tax interventions through rates, create the impression that at this point ad hoc solutions from these laws lead to no uniform and stable tax policy. At every moment, regardless of the legal mechanisms, through these laws, the government resorts to corrections in tax procedures, and also to the basis for payment, i.e. tax returns. Our people said, "Save the money for the rainy days." At this point, what we were suggesting was that the decision on the December month budget was taken; we predicted that at the end of May the budget would have some difficulties with regard to liquidity and the implementation of its obligations, given that the transition of payment turnover to commercial banks was directly reflected in the revenue of the budget, and above all from the tax on financial transactions, given that the payment of this tax through banks and financial organisations in the previous three and a half months was not adequately resolved. Through changes to this law at the moment, the government is trying to level the tax on financial transactions, i.e. its collection, as well as other taxes under the Tax Administration Act. Also, all of this looks like "breathing from hollow to empty." For which reason -- first, whenever there's no money in the government register, in the budget, it's always going and the main blow is on the drivers, then the smokers and at the end of the cover, alcohol consumption. I don't think at this point no one has answered publicly whether the increase in oil excise duty and gasoline will lead to a correction of the retail price of gasoline and oil in transport? The second question is - will the oil industry of Serbia be damaged in this way, or in the previous period, due to the different prices of oil on the world market, NIS achieved a certain extra profit due to the difference in oil prices on the domestic and foreign markets? Next, I think it is said through these laws that, based on the introduction of a proportional rate on financial transactions of 0.22%, budget revenue will be reduced by around 2.8 million dinars. I would like to remind you that just 15 days ago, the budget revenue based on the financial transaction tax increased from 3.5 to 3.8 billion dinars, which is why at the moment it was resorted to such a correction, given that the moment the differentiated rate was introduced we had no information as to what would be the effect of this differentiated tax rate on financial transactions at that time. I think that this rate, introduced to eliminate earthquakes in the Colubary County of 0.15% and 0.15% to eliminate the effects of the bombing, has at this point lost that initial meaning that it was introduced. I must say that indeed these funds could also have served as an initial multiplier of further and larger inflows of funds into the budget, paying off the commitments made to suppliers and contractors. Mr. Todorovic (the other Joca) explained how this affected corporate tax. The same would be resolved through this law. The next thing I want to say is that this income is the biggest donor of the republican budget, and I think it would be better at this point to think that maybe through tax or through this amount of financial transaction tax, an additional source of funding to pay off liabilities based on pension and disability insurance. And do not increase the rate of contribution, given that we have assessed them in the adoption of the law as extremely high; besides, until there is an economic growth and an increase in production, at this point the increase in the rate of contribution for pension and disability insurance will not have any effect. Based on excise duties, about 3.5 billion dinars are expected to be collected, and I think it is not true that it will go to NIS, and citizens will pay this burden through the current price of gasoline and oil, regardless of whether it will be allocated to NIS or be paid into the republican budget. Also, there is another very important question -- since we saw already this morning that the euro 65 point is a bit of a dinar, so already some psychological effect can achieve whether this increase will affect the retail price of oil. We agree that it is necessary to consider the Law on Administrative Taxes, but I really cannot agree that the Committee on Finance, which is the parent board, has not scheduled to consider this issue. I think that administrative fees at the republican level are extremely significantly burdened by the budget of every citizen and I think that through the amendments we will try to reduce significantly increased taxes, regardless of the increase in the amount of tax since 1998, to protect citizens from at least those basic rights, guaranteed by the Constitution and the law, through administrative fees can be achieved in the easiest and most painless way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28953	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered on the lists, I ask if they appear for the word of representatives of the parliamentary groups, who rightly referred to in Article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not been used. Is there an application for a word? No, I don't. Most of them took advantage of that right. I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Excises, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Financial transactions. We continue to work on the agenda, discussing the details. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Radojko Petrić, Golub Rajić, Hranislav Perić, Nebojsa Jović and Ljubomir Mucic; jointly Hranislav Perić and Živodarka Dacin; together Radojko Petrovic and Dragan Todorovic; jointly Petar Petrovic, Milos Todorovic and Adam Uroosevic; Vitomir Plužarić; Ljubomir Kragović; together Branislav Vakić; Dragan Pavlovic; Zoran Krasić; Vjerica Radeta; Stevan Kesejic, Dragan Colić; Veroljub Arsic and Siniša Mitrović. You've received reports from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search, under which the proposal for a law on republican administrative fees has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28954	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, I will be a little informal, I truly understood this support as a need for all of us to be with our families, to respect our fellow Catholic colleagues and to really spend the evening with our families. I would ask you, but this does not mean that it will be accepted, that on the basis of Article 157, we are voting on the fact that the debate in particular takes up to three minutes and that tonight we will finish the session, given that another session is waiting for us in the next session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28955	I would like to vote on the proposal by MP Sinisa Mitrovica, deputy president of the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group, to hold a three-minute debate in particular. For 59, against 26, 29 of the 114 MPs present did not vote. I realize we didn't have a quorum to decide on, so the proposal from the MP didn't go through. We're moving on to a discussion in detail. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and other and national MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? The People's MP Vitomir Plužarevic came forward. I ask Members to comply with the provisions of Article 137. The Rules of Procedure, which says that the debate in particular lasts for the longest five minutes. So, after five minutes, I give you my warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this law with a desire and a goal to stop this law in its reaction to administrative fees that are today unpopular. In Article 2, point 2 is added, which reads as follows: "Administrative tax cannot be charged if the tax tariff is not prescribed or can be charged in the amount of more than or less than prescribed". The constitutional and legal basis for this law is just a framework and a flossula that suits you right now and serves to produce this law. The reasons for the adoption of this law are undermining the desire for the budget you have projected with the deficit to be filled, i.e. to provide funds from citizens, as you have recorded financial power through the transition from mark to euro. You've seen how many people have money, and money now needs to be poured into the budget one by one. Administrative fees are huge. They can't follow a real standard of living. There's no excuse for this law to be passed. You've decided that, based on the consumer baskets you're commenting on, you're setting up a standard for citizens, but that's not the case. This Article 2 does not decidently state what falls and what vision is treated as a tax. This amendment of ours retains the old solution of these taxis. Usually a bureaucratic apparatus can use this law to abuse this Article 2 and charge taxes, although it is not. It must be precisely determined, not harmonised as interest. The tax is not interest so that it monitors the growth of the social standard and that it is harmonised. All citizens, except for the minority, are in a difficult economic condition. Where is the possible inflow of funds for the budget from that poor people? This amendment of ours contains a comment and a technical correction of Article 2, as well as the whole of the law. We Serbian radicals are against this law, we believe that citizens are under a lot of pressure at this time and that we are not yet the European Union that has solved problems related to the standard of citizens. You have commented that there will be a lot of relief, and of these reliefs there is nothing: electricity, water, city transport, oil, gasoline, heat, coal, and everything that citizens use is so expensive that people just spin their heads and wait for this strange state to pass. For reasons of caution, we ask this amendment to keep the solution so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28957	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the proposal for a law on the Republic's administrative fees in front of the SRS, I have been given an amendment to add a new position in Article 10 after Article 2 of the Law: "If the amount of the fee prescribed by the Tariff is greater than 10,000 dinars, the fee is paid in cash"; item 3 is amended and reads as follows: "If the tax is paid in cash or in cash orders, the debtor is obliged to contribute the relevant evidence that he paid through an organisation authorised to carry out payment operations". The reason for submitting this amendment is an attempt to prevent the printing of those taxes of over 10,000 dinars, which can be paid cash or a warrant through the payment service. To introduce this set of financial laws, only one argument has been made, which is that the adoption of this law in the Republic of Serbia's budget results in an additional inflow of about two billion dinars. However, the text of the law lacks an explanation that the country's donations and loans to Serbia won the first time DOS was in power together, when you forced Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to register. When you spent that money, the following donations were conditioned by the Serbs to the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija. When you spent that money, the following donations were conditioned by leaving Serbs for the province's elections. Now you and that money have spent both the IMF and the World Bank have no confidence in you to give you money, because you have nothing left to realize. By the way, this is the topic. Only a budget can be filled in this state of Serbia, in which everything has failed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28959	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28960	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, although the government representative, Minister Djelic, did not favour his presence in the principle debate, given that we did not get the government's opinion on our amendments, it was indeed our turn to find himself in the O.R. and at least here to answer what our amendments meant. There is always the possibility that the Government has heard of amendments and that they will be accepted directly in the debate, when the amendments are discussed. Obviously, an advance is such an attitude that nothing here changes. Regardless, we will, for history's sake, explain our amendments, so that one day we may remind you of what we have told you at the time. In Article 10, which prescribes a way of paying a fee, for reasons of predicting how an administrative fee is paid, we asked for a new position to be added behind Article 2, which would read: "If the amount of the fee prescribed by the tariff is greater than 10,000 dinars, the fee is paid in cash". Because as it stands in article 10, there's an alternative, there's a taxi with over 100,000 and 200,000 dinars, so we think this is in favour of the precision of how to pay a fee. Item 3 would have to be changed and that instead of the formulation -- "If a tax is paid in money, the obligor is obliged to attach the relevant proof that he paid the tax" -- it is clear that he can also be paid by a security order. This means that the legal persons can directly pay their fees, not the general payment, as it usually does. And this is proof that the tax is paid. But since the position of the third member here is formulated, it cannot be concluded that it would be possible now. They would just unnecessarily administer, if they would make it impossible for the bonds to pay a fee directly, by removing funds from their accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28961	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Dragan Todorovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28962	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, along with counterpart Dragan Todorovic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. A bill of this law. This article is regulated to make payment of an administrative fee in tax marks or money. Article 3 regulates that if a payment is made in cash, the obligor is obliged to submit the relevant evidence of a paid taxi. We propose by amendment to Amendment 3 in the sense that if the fee is paid in cash, the obligor may also pay with the competent authority. This means that the party does not have to go to the bank or mail and then return and bring back confirmation of the payment made. If he has to pay 100 to 200 dinars, why not make it impossible to pay on the spot. In order to improve the efficiency of the work of the State Administration Authority and to simplify the procedure for the faster and simpler performance of the business to citizens and other bonds, the possibility should be created when a fee is paid in cash to be paid at the register of that authority. Why walk the party to the bank, to the municipality, to waste time and return to the same counter, to the same institution, to the same organ? It is known that all local self-governments and state authorities have cash registers and can easily receive payment of money. The proposed amendment shall not exclude the possibility that the obligor, if he wishes, may also pay an administrative fee through a bank or mail and in that case provide proof of the payment made to the competent authority. I note that the solution proposed by the amendment has already been regulated in the same way and now in force in Article 6(3). The Federal Administrative Tax Act. If this is not adopted, the party may leave the federal authority, i.e. the state union authority of Serbia-Montenegro and there to pay a fee on the spot, but in municipal or republican authorities it cannot do so. I think the reasons are convincing, so the amendment needs to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28963	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. There's a word from MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28964	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 14. Proposal for a law on republican administrative fees, proposed by the government by an emergency procedure. Otherwise, this member and other members from 10 to 17 shall regulate the way in which the tax is paid and according to the proposed tax solution shall be paid in the administrative tax stamps of the single emission or in cash. I suggested in Article 14 that Article 1 be changed and read as follows: "Requirements, submissions and other files are not received directly from the party without evidence of a paid taxi". The consequences of the change in attitude 1 are the changes in headings 3 and 4 where the regular number and the ally "1 and" would be deleted. I have proposed an amendment to the government's proposal, which is confusing, and the administrative worker makes a lot of commitments, and it is not known for sure that it will be valorised, in that it should not be received directly from the party's submission and other files if there is no evidence of a paid taxi. The second is the situation where the request or submission is sent by mail, so the party should be obliged by letter, or called on to pay a fee within a specified time limit. In the event of a direct surrender, the party shall be informed on the spot of the amount of tax to be paid. It shall be allowed to make a payment, i.e. to provide evidence of a paid taxi and thus complete the request. The proposed amendment represents an identical solution prescribed by Article 10(1) of the Federal Administrative Tax Act. I hope he'll be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28965	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakić. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. He has the word MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28966	Dear MPs, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I submit an amendment that Article 14 paragraph 4 changes and reads: "If the obligor does not pay the fee within the time limit set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, the fee and the notice referred to in Article 2 of this article shall be made prior to the delivery of the requested solution or other documents, i.e. before the notification to the debtor that the action has been carried out." I think this is a more efficient way to charge a tax, which is often in small amounts, so it is unnecessary to additionally burden the tax administration with forced payment. Tax administration authorities are very burdened with their regular affairs, so this additional obligation would make these authorities' work even more inefficient. That is why, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I call on the MPs to support my amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28967	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28968	On the occasion of this amendment, I would like to remind you of the purpose of the administrative fee. In one of its parts, it should cover the basic costs that the Authority has to bear in mind to draw up an act required, and on the other hand it should show the seriousness of the applicant's demands, in order for the Authority to issue a solution or similar act in the belief that it really does. The proposer has precisely prescribed in Article 14 that the obligor is obliged to pay the fee, and if it is insufficient or not taxied at all, it is required to warn him to do so within 10 days, as well as when a possible request or submission is delivered by mail also left to him for 10 days. Article 4 requires the tax administration to charge a fee if the taxpayer does not do so within a period of 10 days. According to us, this is an inefficient way of charging fees. They are often in small amounts and imagine a tax administration that will deal with such matters, although we are convinced that in practice this will very rarely happen and that it was not necessary to scare the taxpayers of the fee in this way, nor to oblige the tax administration to remove the amount of the fee prescribed for a certain request from these requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28969	Does anyone else sign up for a word? There's no sign-ins. ) National MP Dragan Slavka Pavlovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 16. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28970	Article 16 and, in fact, eight members of this law refer to the way in which the tax is paid, and we felt that another one should be added, for reasons of caution, to the obligation that the taxable person, if he paid a fee and was not obliged to pay, or in the amount greater than that prescribed, or that he paid a fee for an action which the authority did not perform for any reason, has the right to refund a fee which he was not obliged to pay. It's something that's existed in the current law, and this is for the protection of taxpayers paying taxes. The applicant cannot prescribe all the provisions and provide himself, i.e. the state apparatus and the authority which is obliged to do something at the request of the party and to request advance payment of the fee, and if it happens, and if the obligor pays more than he or she should or should not pay, but because of the sloppyness of the authority does not receive evidence, especially if the payment service is to be paid out of the account for the payment of an administrative fee, the taxable obligor does not have the opportunity to return those funds to him. Maybe the promoter thought there was another way, some other law that it was regulated, but I couldn't find it. We have estimated that this provision really has a place in this law, but unfortunately the minister here won't tell us if he agrees. I believe he's here, he'd understand the vindication of adding a member like this and that this is probably a predictor's oversight, but what's there? We intervened in this part of the way in which the tax is paid and predicted this possibility that will in practice certainly happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28971	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28972	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, economics is one of the characteristics of a good law. It is a good and natural urgency that the person who made the payment of the administrative fee, without it being due, has the right to refund that fee. In Article 17. The bill clearly states that the rules governing the tax procedure and the tax administration are applied accordingly; means, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I call on you to look at Article 10 of that Law; and this law simply provides for such a situation, and this law calls accordingly on it. It would just be too crazy to repeat it all again in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28973	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Members of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Zivodarka Dacin. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) The speech has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28974	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since there are no colleagues, allow me only in a few sentences to explain this amendment. Therefore, according to our proposal in Article 22, a new position 2 would be added, which would read: "Decisions, IDs, documents or letters referred to in Article 1 of this Article may also be used for other purposes if an appropriate fee is paid". Here, we think of those solutions and other written documents which are freed from the obligation to pay a republican tax, as such exist in legal or physical persons and can be used for other purposes. If we pay the tax, then those solutions or documents can be valid for certain state bodies. I think this amendment has reason to accept, above all, because it allows both legal and physical persons to save time. I mean looking for appropriate solutions, permission, when in their possession they already have such a document that only needs to be later taxiged, and then that ID should be valid. Well, a colleague from the ministry says that it's about everything contained in Article 12, we may have missed the amendment, but it seems to me that even if this were accepted, it wouldn't be an extra in relation to the substance proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28975	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28976	Ladies and gentlemen, if we had a representative of the government here, I probably wouldn't go out to explain this amendment, because it seems that someone has not yet informed the government that there is no National Bank of Yugoslavia, but that under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter we have an obligation to translate the subject called the National Bank of Yugoslavia into the National Bank of Serbia. Since some do not know what the subject is, here, Article 24 of Article 1 per proposal reads: "Printing, publishing and keeping records of the issued tax marks is done by the National Bank of Yugoslavia (this is proposed by the Government which gave us consent to the change of the constitution and the formation of the state union, so it says) according to the rules governing the issue of money and securities. "This amendment would probably have been accepted if the government's representative hadn't had more to do, had he been here, had he come, but the essence of this amendment was something else. Administrative fees, first of all, are paid by administrative tax stamps. It's a little bit bigger than a simple postmark, probably a Serbian Member State's coat of arms printed in the value of that tax mark. There's that glue on the back, so it sticks to the request, and that's the way administrative fees are paid. This is the usual way, and therefore the value of the administrative fee is always symbolic, modest, proof of the seriousness and existence of a party that has addressed one authority by request. Since in this law they are all taxed to represent essentially taxes, because if there is a tax of 30 and some thousand dinars, so let there be two thousand dinars, then the question is whether it's an administrative tax or something that looks like a tax. And for the tax, it is characteristic that its height is determined by the relatively material possibilities and economic potential of the taxpayers, based on the constitutional standard that all citizens are obliged to participate in the financing of public administration, i.e. public affairs and state affairs. Given our amount of taxis under this bill, probably the promoter could have found a better solution. So if it's defined for such high taxes, it'd be better if he dropped the tax-marks clause. The fact is that these tax stamps can hardly be obtained, and almost anything we have to pay as a fee usually the office clerk warns us that there is a payment unit on the next counter of a bank, so buy a payment card, then pay up, so pay the cost of payment traffic and so provide, I say, a minimum condition for your request to enter the administrative procedure. If the policy of administrative fees is a substitute for tax policy, then the possibility of using tax marks should be excluded. If the policy is that the tax mark is just a symbol, a sign that the party exists and has addressed it by some request, then the NBJ should issue tax marks. This is our obligation under both the Constitutional Charter and the Constitutional Charter, which says that if we change regulations, we are obliged to do so in an appropriate way and not only in the names of the Authority, but also in the competences and other affairs. Please colleagues who have realized that the NBJ can no longer exist, accept this amendment and assist the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28977	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28978	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we would not intervene in this article that the NBJ, still should exist under the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, still exists. I will remind you of Article 13 of that law, which says that on the day of entry into force of the Constitutional Charter, the following federal authorities and organisations become the authorities and organisations of the Member State of Serbia and continue to work in accordance with the rules on which they are educated, which will apply on the territory of the Member State of Serbia until the relevant regulations are adopted by the Member State of Serbia, including the NBJ. We are all here to witness that we have not passed a new regulation regarding the work of the NBJ, nor have we changed the name of that National Bank, but we have such a situation in reality that Mr Dinkic, not only after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, has downloaded the board from the NBJ and put a new one on which the National Bank of Serbia writes, before we have brought here an appropriate regulation that would give him the right to do so, but also on the note that was printed afterwards, it says that the National Bank of Serbia has issued it. We witnessed it, and we read in the press that Mr. Zivkovic attacked it and called it a forger. If there is a National Bank of Serbia, such a silence, this should be the case in this law, or we should call on the government to prepare a regulation as urgently as possible on the basis of which this situation will now legalise. Otherwise, we're in a position to have an illegal bank and have counterfeit bills.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28979	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28980	For two and a half years, the representatives of the Serbian government have assured us that there are no more gatherings in Serbia, such as in the past regime, no inflation, no civil robbery, so the government appears before the National Assembly with a bill on republican administrative fees, which are three to seven times larger than they were before. In addition, a number of new administrative taxis are foreseen for some jobs that have not been taxied at all. Since your intention is obvious, which is to explain that you expect a substantial amount of funds from administrative taxis, so you will be able to charge the budget with these funds, it might be a good idea to provide for administrative fees to be charged with cancellation decisions, since you normally issue them the most and certainly to fill the budget of this type of taxi. Since government representatives also talk about a financially stable country, a financially stable market, I do not understand why this Article 28, where tax tariff harmonisation is planned. When we discussed the Law on PIO the other day, you provided for a whole other basis as a basis for harmonising pensions, compared to the one you foresee to increase administrative taxis. The state gives citizens a smaller base and takes for the greater. It seems to me that the state should be in the position of citizens, even in this part. My amendment; it is essential that Article 28 should be deleted, and because there is no legal basis for changing the tariff rate in this way. The tariff is determined by law, these tariffs are an integral part of the law, and if there is a need for what reasons, which the Government will certainly assess, then it should be proposed to the National Assembly to amend the law and to change tariffs by reason. There may not be a need to change everything, perhaps just some, depending on what will eventually be shown. For this reason, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I proposed an amendment to delete Article 28 of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28981	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Radojko Petrovic and Dragan Todorovic together, MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Todorovic and Adam Urošević and MP Stevan Kesejić, together. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Stevan Kesejić, then the People's Messenger Radojko Petric, and then the People's Messenger Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a pity that there is no minister, I would probably accept this amendment. The mistake is that there are no direct transfers, so he can't see that we're discussing his laws now. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29 of this Act, for the reason that we consider tariff fees in this article to be flat-rate. Namely, the tariff tax is increasing by 100%, and you don't know what the basic tariff is. The tariffs are determined by law, even in these conditions, by emergency, direct war dangers or by conditions of war, laws can also be passed, as we are today. So I think this member is too tall, unless, according to my deep conviction, this fish hunt is cloudy. This special provision, therefore, of Article 29 and Article 28, is not logical, because at a time of war, immediate war danger, the emergency financial power of citizens is the same as the state of the country, so it would be very difficult and it would be more logical not only not to increase tariff fees in that state, but it would be more normal not to even charge administrative fees at a time of war, or direct war dangers, or even in an emergency. So, I propose to the Government, or the Proposer, and above all, to the majority parliamentary group that supports the Government, to accept this amendment, because they will also feel the difficulties on their backs when they suffer administrative fees, and there will be no landscapes in their pockets. That would be what this amendment is about. I must also point out that budget funds are provided for in the stock reserves at a time of direct war, and therefore budget beneficiaries can use budget and reserve funds, precisely for those situations listed in this article. For this reason, I believe that absolutely Article 29, as well as Article 28, should be deleted from this law as a whole, because there is no place for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28983	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petrovic, and then a National MP, Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28984	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, along with counterpart Dragan Todorovic, I have tabled an amendment to Article 29. It's a bill of law. In this article, the government proposed that during the war, direct war dangers or the emergency tax rate increase by 100%. If we get into the essence of the problem, we'll realize it's completely illogical and there's no room for the fees to double by 100% in these circumstances. Under these circumstances, it is not only a problem to fill the budget. The problem then is the security of citizens' incomes for normal living existence. It would be more logical to reduce tax tariffs under these circumstances, not to increase them. It's not appropriate to make a comparison now, but we do have a state of emergency because of the tragic event of the prime minister's murder. By publishing this law, so as soon as we adopt it and publish it, the fees will be increased by twice; we have seen in the debate in principle that compared to the current state of fees we have increased in individual cases by more than 10, 15, and even more than 100 times, and now if we adopt the proposal that they are still being doubled, then it really goes into one extreme. Namely, to state only a few cases: if we turn to the interpretation of the republican rules instead of the current 15 dinars, there will be no more 2,000, as we adopt today, but it will be 4,000, and that is an increase of 266 times; so if we ask for a ban on immovable property instead of the current 100 dinars, there will be no 3,000 but 6,000, and that is 60 times more. When issuing consent for the curricula and the program for higher schools instead of 300 dinars will not be 9,000 but 18,000 and that is 60 times higher; in the nostrification of secondary school diplomas instead of 60 it will not be 6,000 but 12,000 and that is 200 times more; for higher education instead of 60 dinars it will be 12,000 already 24,000 and that is 400 times more. It is truly inappropriate to go with this solution and accept the proposal made by the Government. The above shows that this is incomprehensible and we hope that the right solution will be found to delete this member, in other words, to maintain the situation so far. We're not even looking for a reduction, but it's realistic at least to keep a state like this before such extraordinary circumstances arise.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28985	The word has a National MP Milos Todorovic, followed by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28986	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs' Club of the Party of Serbian Unity has given an amendment to Article 29 and suggested that the member of the law be deleted. Dear colleagues before me have explained about what is a flaw in article 29. I would say and add, given the amounts offered by the Republic's administrative taxis, it's completely irrational to even talk about an increase in times of extraordinary circumstances, especially at a percentage of 100%. I don't think either of us is even hoping for any new war, state of emergency, as you already call it, and if the state of emergency is directed against certain groups, it's certainly not against the citizens, and you have to admit that this increase has a drastic impact on citizens who are going to file certain submissions and requests. So many SSJ MPs are proposing that this member be completely deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28987	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, somehow this Article 29 doesn't look good to me. I don't like it when it says that there's a possibility of reintroducing a state of emergency, any occasion, don't give God a direct threat to war or war. There is always the possibility that this could be regulated by order in such circumstances, so that we asked for the removal of this member, especially since the state is still funding itself from real sources, until the general mobilization is declared, until the monata is abolished, until it is switched to man-factory production, so there is no need for this member to stand in law at all. I have tried in transitional provisions to find that something does not refer retroactively to this feather that is behind us, given that there is no retroactiveness, that we expect that these days the state of emergency is lifted, because as far as we can through the means of informing from the government of the ruling majority to hear, all those who need to be caught, and thank God the state of emergency for criminals should last forever. We don't see any reason why this fee increased by 100% of these circumstances is even subject to this law, and we're wondering what that money would really be spent on. There is always a part of the budget for special purposes, so if the costs are increased during the emergency period, and we are witnessing that there has been an increase in costs due to the engagement of the MUP, due to additional security, escorts, two or three military jeeps, police, accompanied by senior state officials. It certainly costs, all those jeeps and tanks cost, that people have to pay, but 100% increase in fees on such occasions, I think, in the next few days, until this emergency is lifted, they won't be able to make up for these sources, so it's better to have the government redistribute by means of special purpose funds and thus shut down that financial structure, or that financial debt that we've entered into by introducing a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28989	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28990	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope that this amendment will be accepted, not only because the entire opposition in this assembly agrees with it, but because I think there are many arguments and real reasons to accept an amendment in which the tax cannot be increased by 100% at the time of the war, at a time of immediate war danger or at a time of emergency. I sincerely hope that this tax law will come into effect after the state of emergency, and that we will not have to apply it for those few days in this year 2003. But please, is there anything worse that a nation and a nation, or a nation, can come from a state of war? I can understand the proponent's motivation to increase the cab by 100% in some way deter people from some legal actions, toothpicks, disputes, etc. at the time of the war, and thus to increase the efficiency of the work of the state authorities. But if we already have a problem called wartime, does it make sense to increase that pain further financially to people who, even in the state of war, who, even at that point, are working as much as possible, want to exercise some of their rights? I think that's where the proposer is in a rather delicate situation. On the one hand, it is necessary to destimulate some processes in front of state authorities, but, on the other hand, from that fact, it seems to be an injustice to a large number of people who, both in such and in war conditions, must have some of their rights to achieve. This is especially true if it is a direct threat to war; it can last for months or even years. Or, if we wanted to be malpractice now and say, well, this state of emergency can take me no longer to figure out how long, it can't be a goal for the state to just pick up the revenue. Finally, it itself brings out taxis that are here, without any increase, are extremely large, drastic, at least compared to what we've had so far. It's been too low so far, but this is too high. If we double all that, then we showed another face of the state, which is not good, which only cares about the interests of the state register, while neglecting the real circumstances in which those who are due to pay, at a time of war, direct war danger or emergency. From here, it seems to me that all the conditions have been met (I am sorry that there is no Mr Djelic to accept this amendment today), but as a parliamentary majority, I ask you to remember, when we vote on this, that there is a Article 29 in the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which provides for a solution that the SPS proposes to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28991	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28992	Article 34 only follows our position as expressed in Article 28 and as explained by Ms. Verica Radeta. So, the dinar is taking a cab out of Tarifa, which is projected here to just comply with the law in the 28th article, with the rate of cost of living, we believe that as a member, it is unacceptable to change the amount of tax tariff in any other way than by law. No one to Parliament and us, the MPs, can take away this right by such a provision, because the amount of the tax, and the tax is one of the significant sources of the state's income, must depend on our will, or Parliament's assessment that at a certain economic point, these taxes should be increased or eventually reduced. What if parliament assesses and if the opportunities in society are such that the fees should be reduced eventually? We can get into that situation. You know what the ability of citizens is, anything is possible, we don't expect any improvement, we expect it to get worse. Therefore, if this provision remains, I don't know how to charge taxes at all and how to determine the amount of tax, because it doesn't say here - depends on growth, but it says - it will harmonize with the cost of living. So that's where the cost of life increases. In our opinion, when the state needs to take something, then it always binds to the cost of living, because the cost of living increases. Now it will especially increase, after this law, that is, a package of laws that we had on the agenda today. We know that when excises increase, how much this affects the price of all life supplies and how much that affects the cost of life, and when we've determined the amount of pensions, then we've said -- they're going to be coordinated based on the collection of one half of the cost of living and one half of the growth in earnings, counting on the profits to grow less than the cost of life, because they're going to grow much faster, and then the pensions are going to grow less. Therefore, the principle of the state cannot be to protect only the interest of its budget, but it must also protect the interests of all citizens, so even when the state gives, and the state only gives what it has previously taken. That's where he has to find some balance. That's why we asked for this member's erasure, and I think it really makes a lot of sense, but there's no government representative to tell us what he thinks about it, and Bojan Pajtic might say, but he's not authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28993	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Tariff of Republic administrative taxis. At the tariff of administrative fees, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Golub Rajic, Hranislav Peric, Nebojsa Jovic and Ljubomir Mucic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? There's a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28994	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to the tariff system and tariffs that are within the law on administrative fees. On behalf of the SPS Group, five MPs submitted this amendment and it was my duty to explain it. I personally have one question - how many taxes will our citizens pay on 30 April if it remains a state of emergency? Does this tariff system or will this disputed former member, which we have explained here, mean, during a period of war, immediate war danger or emergency, these taxes increase by 100%? Secondly, I think it's really in the tariff system on 44 pages with 150 tariff numbers that it's impossible to make an amendment to be acceptable. Everyone has an opinion. If there are acceptable proposals at this time, in such a way as to propose an amendment to the entire tariff system, I do not think it is possible to agree to be accepted by the MPs and by the Government. There are even 20 digits in some tariff system, which is also very difficult to reconcile. As far as this tariff system and tariffs are concerned, our goal was to allow our citizens to exercise their rights much easier and cheaper in previous amendments to the law, and to enable, above all, our citizens who are trying to deal with their own economic activity through the deterrence of small and medium-sized enterprises, to make it easier to get to initial capital and thus, through the reduction of administrative taxis, have a faster and easier start. I think that in this tariff system, they need to be harmonised and they need to pay these taxis with the amount of taxis that are in line and that we brought in last year, which are court fees. Taxes under this law and the Law on judicial fees vary greatly in individual terms and heights, and we do not need state authorities to turn into competitive bodies, above all in the exercise of certain rights: overa, manuscripts, signatures, etc. Also, I think it represents some taxis, where citizens exercise their rights, primarily a birth certificate copy, should have been slightly smaller than this. We suggested that it be 50 dinars, and in the government's proposal there are 100 dinars. It is a practice that at the end of the school year all graduates of primary and secondary schools try to obtain their rights by enrolling in two secondary schools. If we have over 90,000 finished students, times 500 dinars, as far as it's supposed to be, that's 45 million burdens on our citizens in one month. Also, I think it's a very important and tariff system 148 that protects the rights of the bidder. I think, as far as offerings of great and small value are concerned, they're extremely high. Since I've heard of this novelty that over five minutes follow warnings and punishments, I think our authorised proposer will explain it more easily and more quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28995	Anyone else want a word? The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28996	I will continue where my colleague Mucic stopped and we socialists will be disciplined, we will not exceed the time. In this amendment, we have chosen 17 or 18 tariff numbers that we consider to be an extremely high Republic tax. For some tariff numbers, we might be able to find some understanding, but for most, frankly, it's hard to find an excuse without being objectively or realistically based on some facts. For example, heading 1st point 2), we suggested that the amount of 2,000 dinars be replaced by 500 dinars. That's the case when you ask for an opinion on the application of Republic regulations. So far, it's been 15 dinars. I agree that this is an extremely low amount, but 2,000 dinars is still a significant amount for any citizen in this country. We suggest that it be 500 dinars and we think it's OK. These days we've been talking about the Information Act, and you've got a fee to sign up for public information in the register. In heading 3331, sub-point (1), 35,000 are provided for such an operation. So, just to get into the register of public information funds: television, radio or newspaper. We think it's too much and that instead of 35,000 dinars, it's going to cost 15,000, which would be appropriate to some economic power at the moment and not to explain now how many reasons it has. We have suggested that in sub-point (2), instead of the amount of 14,000, there is an amount of 9,000. So we didn't want to go to some drastic now, say figurative reductions, and make a cartoon out of it, but to bring that amount from 14,000 to something that we think is real, or 9,000. For example, what is the obligation of heading 46 to pay 10,000 dinars for the export licence? Why wouldn't that be 5,000? Today I was talking about a very important area of fire protection. The tariff number 6th point 1) provides that a fee of 42,000 dinars is already to be paid for the performance of this activity at the beginning. We say it's a lot of 42,000. Let's say 12,000 dinars. For example, at point 3 we have 105,000 obligations from the fire protection sphere. We're wondering why it wouldn't be 15,000, when it's been symbolic so far, because we haven't increased since 1998, so here we go. I was also talking today about how we're going to apply the law on construction and planning. See heading 136. We suggest that 0.1% be replaced by a percentage of 0.05%; refers to a document called building approval, and the value of the facility is applied to a percentage of 0.1%. Just a small bill -- an object that costs 50,000 euros, say, one apartment or one house, when it is applied 0.1% to 50,000 euros, it is 500 euros. Isn't that a lot? We suggest that it be reduced. When it comes to a tariff number that regulates the issue of approval for use of the facility, 0.2% is foreseen. We say it's really 0.05%. When it comes to the protection of bidders, we are increasingly objecting to those involved in competitions for public procurement, which concern public enterprises and state authorities. You, with this tariff of one who complains of some denied right in this process, are additionally burdened on large purchases of 40,000 and on small purchases of 20,000 dinars. We think that this should be compared to the real power, that is, the conditions and say, what is 40,000 dinars, to be 4,000. So, I complain and pay 4,000 for a large purchase or 2,000 for a small purchase.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28997	Do any of the other participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On the tariff of the Republic's administrative taxis, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28998	Ladies and gentlemen, when a man looks at the tariff system, he can come to two conclusions. First, that Mr. Minister was extremely valuable to raise the tariffs of administrative taxis from 100 to 700%. In the second part, he was extremely valuable that everything he couldn't put into tax categories, try to charge and make up for through taxes. I can tell you, except he was very valuable, and he was very successful in it. Some taxes on one base charge multiple times. Let's take a look at his tariff system. In heading 10, to dig up the most ordinary well in your backyard, you have to pay a fee of 9,000 dinars. The strangest thing is that they're so-called. Environmental environmentalists or the ecological state have introduced extremely large amounts in the matter of environmental taxis. Tariff number 15 - to review the technical documentation required to give consent to the assessment of the impact of the project on the environment, except for a project of natural good special value, up to 100 square metres - 15,000 dinars. I don't want to read. I'll take at least the values, so, for the smallest objects. Tariff number 16 - only one word changes. In order to review the technical documentation required for granting consent to the environmental impact analysis, other than a project of natural good special value, again up to 100 squares of 7,500 dinars. Tariff 17 - new word and new tariff again. For a solution that determines the fulfilment of environmental protection conditions from the impact assessment or impact analysis of the affected situation prior to the issue of the use of the plant permit and activities for which it is not prescribed to issue an ecological licence - 7,500 dinars. If you want to build one of the most common garages or sheds, you have to pay in the name of taxis, on various grounds, nearly 30,000 dinars. And to make things even more beautiful, if you're building this facility, you need to set aside 56,000 dinars for a building permit under heading 137. Or, what happens if you want to open a trade, a kiosk or a small shop and a crafts shop? Tariff number 23 - for solutions that determine the fulfillment of sanitary and health conditions for site facilities under sanitary supervision and give consent to location, i.e. facilities, yet the lowest, up to 100 square meters - 3,000 dinars. For the fulfilment of sanitary and health conditions, project technical documentation for facilities under sanitary supervision and gives sanitary consent to projects, for facilities up to 100 squares 3,000 dinars. That's because only one word has changed. And to conclude, another 3,000 dinars on one basis, that the facilities were built, or reconstructed in accordance with the sanitary and health conditions of the design and technical documentation on which sanitary consent was given and giving sanitary consent to use the facility. Gentlemen, that's how you pay for every settlement tax and a tax tax and a tax tax. It's just like if you went into the store, so someone wanted to charge you a fee for going into the store, then buying the goods, packing your goods in a bag and getting out of the store. If that were the case, you can see in heading 92 - let’s say, so far it has been under the new Final Account Act and these amendments and additions to the Tax on Profits Act, only professional persons can do so. Look at the fees they need to pay their professional faces, so they can do it. For each application of the examinations for obtaining an authorised auditor - per case - 2,000 dinars; then an accountant per case of 1,300 dinars etc. Tariff number 96 - for issuing an instrument of title, authorised auditor, authorised accountant, independent accountant and accountant - another 1,300 dinars. For enrollment in the journal of professional titles for these same professions, another 1,000 dinars. People, which is a lot, it's a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u28999	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president, Serbian Radical Party MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29000	I'd like to comment on some more of the tariff pines. For example, heading 32, which provides for a fee of 5,000 dinars for the solution to meet the conditions for carrying out scientific research (registration decision) and entry into the NEO. I think this is a positive example of how research is helped. I suppose this fee will help a lot of people never to determine that. Reports of research and other projects, here is the amount of a fee of 1,000 dinars. We know what economic opportunities they are and how they work, how scientific research workers are paid. As far as tariff number 33 is concerned, since my public information law is fresh, I have the impression that we will make it impossible for many of these high tariffs to enroll their public texts in certain registers, because the tax is set to 14,000, and we have asked it to be reduced to 5,000. Deleting from the register is 7,000. We asked to cut to 3,000. It's shut down National, Identity. I guess they're gonna have to pay a $7000 tax to get out of the register. In a desire for two suspended lists to be taken over in a certain way, Beba Popovic and Brajevic founded "Arena". We saw what the front page looks like and what a newspaper it's going to be. They'll have to pay these 14,000. I have no reason to feel sorry for them, but I know in advance what kind of yellow press it will be. I would especially like to draw attention to headings 119, 120 and 122. It's about civil status papers. The needs are very common for these copies from the book of citizens, from the birth certificate. You all know how many times a year you have to take that, because the importance of these documents is six months. Taxes should be much lower there. That's where we suggested more than 100% reduction, that's to say, not to raise taxis, because it affects the standard and the cost of such an impoverished population. The tariff number 135 provides for a tax of 5,600 dinars for a solution which determines the fulfilment of the conditions for the construction of technical documentation under the law governing the construction of buildings. That's what Minister Schumarac assured us, that everyone will go quickly, all of which will be much cheaper, and now 5,600 dinars for this fee. We wonder who will be able to carry out the technical reception of the house, with all the other expenses that the Law on Planning and Construction has, should pay for these 5,600 more. I was almost counting on something, for technical reception, and for the use of permission, almost 10,000 marks are needed by a man, so now make sure this is too much or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29001	Anyone else want a word? The next amendment is to tariff number one. The amendment was brought together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Todorovic and Adam Urosevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29002	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must note that there are no more than 55-56 MPs in the room. It's out of the question that I'm explaining anything, because there's no effect. Look at how many cards are in and how many people are there. Thank you. I can't continue the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29003	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? I ask the MPs to stop earning and honoring the Rules of Procedure in all its parts. The proposal to add two new headings 56a and 56b to the tariff of the Republic's administrative fees after tariff number 56. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic has submitted an amendment with a correction, proposing that tariff numbers 56a and 56b be added after tariff number 56. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Todorovic and Adam Urosevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 94th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Todorovic and Adam Urosevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 120th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Todorovic and Adam Urosevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. The proposaler's representative is not present, and there's no point in asking if he wants a final word. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Tax Taxes on Entrepreneurship (Statistics) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dragisa Marinković; together Radojko Petrovic and Joca Arsic; Veroljub Arsic; together Zivodarka Dacin and Nebojsa Jović and Zlatan Jovanovic. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MPs Radojko Petric and Joca Arsic submitted together to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29004	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, along with counterpart Joco Arsic, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law. In this article, in fact, a new Article 26v, in order to tax, to determine profits, is proposed not to recognise the burden of expenditure the value of individual claims due at the same time. It is quite illogical, which means that it prevents booking, i.e. to temporarily write off part of the funds where there is no great chance that the claims will be charged. The amendment proposes that this provision be deleted; without additional criteria, it is unsustainable to prescribe such a standard, as it may be different grounds for mutual debt and claim. It is particularly unsustainable to prescribe such a standard when it comes to different amounts of mutual debt and claim. It's not said that it only applies to part of the correction of the value of the claim from persons who are at least so owed at the same time, and not to happen that you owe someone 500,000 and you ask for 20,000 and the whole process is blocked, there's no way of correcting the value. To regulate this issue is an important factor in the time when mutual debts and claims have arisen. In some cases the possibilities are different; circumstances of limitations may arise. There is no concern that by accepting the bank's amendments and other financial organisations, they will avoid paying the profit tax. It is known that, if there is a later payment for the amount of the correction of the value of the claim, for these amounts, for how long the reservation or write-off took place in the banks, and the fees are recorded as extraordinary income. This extraordinary income increases profits in the next period and is normally taxed. It is not excessive to point out that acceptance of the amendment also supports the accounting principle of parity. It's always better to domestically reduce insecure activity and increase passiveness and not vice versa. If we're not 100% sure about the data, it's better if the financial result and the company balance is underestimated, not overrated. If the balance is overrated, an unwarranted tax will be paid and the allocation of funds that later turns out to be missing. If the balance is undervalued, tax will later be charged through extraordinary revenues and the allocation of real funds will be made. You don't have to run at all costs to charge as much taxes as possible. It is important to respect other principles that have a deep economic logic, and these principles are not contrary to tax principles. All of this really requires this amendment to be accepted and to be corrected in the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29005	Does anyone else want a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29006	I don't know why our minister doesn't have anything to piss him off. If this is from him, it's a lot. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2, and there is no Mr Pitiæ to plead as a representative of the Legislative Committee and to at least try to explain to me that you have managed to put 12 members of the law into one member, and that is not applicable to our amendments, so it should not apply to your laws either. One of those 12 members in Article 2, 26j item 1 point 3), I asked to be deleted because the taxpayer cannot write off the funds, i.e. to make the cost if he does not provide evidence of the failure to collect those claims. Now I'm really interested in what that evidence is? Whether these are the acceptive orders that the National Bank of Serbia or the business banks will return to us as non-refundable, whether these are the notes which will also be paid back to us as non-refundable, whether they are judicial solutions that have not yet been executed or the judicial perpetrators have to go out in the field and that they are estimating this claim is unpaid. If you expect the court to decide, knowing how it solves, it will take you to write off some funds, first, a lot of money to pay the court fees, the legal counsel, and a lot of time and patience, about three to four years to get to that part. I'm not surprised it came to Mr. Djelic's mind, but well, he's right as a minister. In Article 26v, point 1. I asked that points 5) and 6 be deleted; I cannot - point 5) - be shown as interest costs for untimely paying taxes, contributions and other public taxes and - point 6 - fines and pences. Mr Djelic has long and long announced it, to remind you that the interest is an unpaid asset in the name of the tax 0.2% daily, so that for some small debt that you do not pay for three or four months you can pay a much higher interest that is nowhere in the world. I don't think we should accept this point in this law, at least until Mr. Minister in his criminal policy according to the taxpayers applies an econtaneous rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. When it comes to fines and foams, I don't know if any of you have had a chance to even find out how the Republic authorities do it, and on the ground, when it comes to business. For example, a Republic market inspector enters a retail store and simply asks whether the item has dropped the price, whether the working time has faded and charges a fine of 2,000 to 5,000 dinars on the spot on behalf of it. That's what it looks like on the ground, that's what it looks like in practice, and now you're asking the taxpayer to make that racket that pays various inspections as his income. A little harder. In Article 26b, I asked for a new position to be added after Article 1, which refers to point 3 of this article, from the date of entry into force of the law on the financing of political parties and organisations. I agree with you that political parties and organisations should not have sponsors in the economy as well as elsewhere, but there should therefore be a special law that will regulate the work and financing of political parties. So the potential sponsors wouldn't ask these parties to implement the programme in the interest of their sponsors at the moment when they come to power. You wouldn't have to now, say, if there was such a law before you became a government, to enforce the laws of the European Union and the United States, because you were waiting for money in front of their embassies. We'd have a special public prosecutor to fight organized crime seven months ago, and now we wouldn't be doing it in a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29007	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29008	Ladies and gentlemen, whenever we submit amendments, we do so in accordance with the SRS programme. Since this amendment concerns the financing of political parties, I must state the position of the SRS that has been incorporated into our programme. We believe political parties must be financed by the state. It's the only way we'll have real political miles, and we'll know that political parties depend on no one on the side, but to depend on the membership of their members eventually, so that the state separates appropriate means of functioning and covering the normal costs that the state has. What the state is now giving to political parties that have MPs in parliament is not enough for those current costs either. By the way, the government has been blocking us for two months, and it's not paying us to the political parties either. Today she even blocked the National Assembly, which could not pay the expenses to the MPs for attending the session. That's never happened, but it's never happened in 13 years. Ask whoever you want here in the National Assembly, it's a kind of pressure on Parliament itself. You may be insolent, and I believe you're insolent today and at the register. I don't have any special interest in that. You know that 650 dinars are costs for those who live in Belgrade and without it can. This covers what we eat and drink here today, because we have to stay in the National Assembly all day long. As far as political parties are concerned, it is really necessary and we wanted to show this through this amendment, that the government adopts and proposes to the Assembly a law on the financing of political parties, not that in this way and frightens and demotes all those who would like to help political parties survive. You know that without money it's very hard to go and the government knows it very well. That's why he proposed a member of the law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29009	Did anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. It is my duty, regardless of what is not in the agenda, to apologize to the MPs on behalf of the Head of the Assembly. This is really the first time we've had trouble paying off and supplements and journals. It's a matter of technical nature, inadmissible, but the MPs didn't deserve it with their status, except today we share the judiciary of all those who are in similar difficulties. I think Monday's gonna be fine. Proposal to add a new Article 2a after Article 2. National MP Dragisa Marinkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Komic, I would like to remind you that at the end of last year we had already changed the Company Tax Act. I blame myself sometimes for going through some things undetected. So in Article 49, that part of this law regulates all the stimulations given to people who hire workers. Therefore, if a person employs a number of workers during the year, whether 10, 20, 50 or 100, he has the right to deny him the gross income of those workers he employed. Unfortunately, in that article, it is said that in the event that at least one employee is fired, there is no right to do so, which I think is an unprecedented nonsense. So, on what basis do we invite people to invest capital in this country and stimulate them to hire people, if we say, you can't, you don't have the right to fire any workers. If you hire people and fire at least one, you have no right to do that. My proposal is that the gross income of people employed in that year bounces away from the number of people fired. It's a reality. So, the extra income you've hired from those who've been fired, that difference is recognised. I think this amendment is acceptable. I don't know, I don't have the Ministry's opinion, and I talked to Djelic about it, and he agreed. I hope this amendment will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29011	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 3 to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Živodarka Dacin and Nebojsa Jovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's the word of the international ambassador of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29012	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I think we have only one problem: all MPs who are in the hall will agree with me that today is voting day and that we can work with this number of MPs, I believe that we would adopt all amendments and amend the law in such a way that it is appropriate for Members of Parliament and citizens. What's there? The amendment to Article 3 was tabled by my colleague Nebojsa Jovic and I on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, where we proposed that Article 50a be changed to Article 1 by saying: "a taxpayer who invests in his fixed assets, i.e. in whose assets another person invests more than 60 million dinars or more than one million euros (in the current law there are 600 million dinars and 10 million euros, which we consider to be high), which is used in registered activity in the Republic and in the investment period an additional employment of at least 20 persons (in the existing member 100 persons) is released from paying tax on corporate profits over a period of 10 years. "I think this is an amendment that really the Assembly should accept for a number of reasons. First, we know what our economy is like and what our investments are like. Perhaps this more favourable shift of investment borders and the number of employees could attract both our domestic and foreign investors. At the same time, we do not believe that the budget of the Republic of Serbia would be so damaged, as all taxpayers and businesses would be paid in time, and on the other hand the number of employees would increase. Of course, if payments were regular, and no one would invest if they didn't have that basis. I would therefore ask all the MPs present to try, no matter what we do not have the Committee's opinion, except that the amendment is legally possible, that in the day of the vote we accept this amendment, because it is indeed in the interest of our future, perspective and our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29013	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think there is an amendment that I am more convinced is to be accepted than what is proposed in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia. We now have a solution that when someone invests 10m euros or 600m dinars and employs 100 people, we will free him of profit tax for 10 years and therefore contributes to these changes that the government, i.e. the Ministry itself suggested, to simplify the procedure, and the tax authority finds that the conditions have been met that a certain entity that has invested 10m euros is exempt from profit tax over the next 10 years. We now say - reduce it to a million euros and reduce the obligation of admission from 100 workers to 20 workers. Why? My Passwords like to say it's better multiple times less. In ten businesses, ten municipalities in Serbia when investing a million euros is 10m euros, and when ten such businesses employ ten times 20 workers, that is 200 workers. From the point of view of the register, there's no harm done. We double the number of employees, which is how we stimulate. So if there's logic in all this, then it's worth accepting this. Today I tried to show some other examples of why such suggestions should be accepted, no matter where they come from. When someone invests a million euros, he expects for a reason that at the end of the financial year, it remains about 10% of the amount of funds invested. That's some average profit rate, and that's 100,000 euros. When they charge him a tax on profits, it's 14,000 euros. When you hire 20 people, they will receive a real 5,000 euros in earnings, for these 5,000 euros, the state accounts for 72% and that's 3,600 euros, but every month, so times 12. When 5,000 euros in personal incomes appear on the market as a demand, when it is spent in stores, in shops, at gas stations, it is another 20% on every 5,000 euros in sales tax and we charge the cash. On one side we have 14,000 euros, and on the other 52,000 euros. I don't see anything more logical than this, I don't see any reason, and I'm very sorry that there isn't a minister here to say no to something like this. Of course this amendment is legally possible and simply a man would have to come up with something to say he wasn't, but it's irrational to refuse such an amendment. We must be aware of the reality that 10m euros is too much investment for any domestic legal person, and there is a great investment for both foreign partners and medium and small enterprises. 20 million small and medium-sized enterprises operate in Europe. Of these, 99% of them employ less than 10 people and there is no future in this country unless we stimulate this particular area of small and medium-sized enterprises in this way. We just have to do everything. Equal economic development is important in relation to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's better in ten municipalities per million than in one ten. It's better, of course, to a hundred municipalities a million more. Let's do this action. Is it possible we can't stimulate this? I urge you, colleagues, to vote in favour of this amendment. Not because we suggested it, but because it's so content-like that there's no reason to say no.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29015	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29016	In addition to this amendment, which is really in place, I would just like to say that I'm surprised that Mr Djelic didn't understand the essence of this proposed member of the law and then the impression is that it is purely demagogue character. I'd like to see in a year how many of those are going to be investing 600 million dinars to hire 100 workers. If we had one, then we could look really pink at the future. All companies with more than 100 employees are considered large companies, and Minister Djelic here also told us that this is not our future but that we rely on small businesses, not even medium enterprises, but that our future is small businesses. Then it was logical and it made sense really here to suggest that it be the legal person that invests, they don't have to be that high funds, but even if there's 600 million dinars left, it's not a great deal of money for anyone who wants to do business seriously, but with a number of employees, ten, fifteen, twenty people, there's a lot to be achieved, and especially when we have a large number of unemployed people like this. I believe that Mr. Djelic would have been here if he hadn't been in America, but the government could have informed us that he was another proposing representative and sent to the Assembly today. Mr. Sabic is here all day, and I believe that many amendments would only be adopted if he had the government's authority, but here we are to convince you, and what you will do in the day to vote is your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29017	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29018	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act. Article 6 defines the date - the date of entry into force of this law and here it states that this law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Here are all four laws that we are considering today in this unique debate and of these four proposals in two are to come into effect on the eighth day of the day of publication in the Official Messenger, and the Company Tax Act and the Excise Act enter into force the next day of publication. I have proposed to amend Article 6 so that what is in accordance with the Constitution stands there, that it enter into force on the eighth day of its publication. It's just illogical that two laws from one area, taxes, come into force the next day and the other on the eighth day. The explanation set out in this bill, relating to this Article 6, says: "The entry into force of the next day from the day of publication is proposed to allow the law to be applied as soon as possible. This is necessary for banks and other financial organisations, which have been applying the new Accounting Act since 1 January 2003, to establish profit taxation in the manner prescribed by this law in 2003, which is particularly justified reasons within the meaning of Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia." I understand the government's desire to get to the money as soon as possible, to rob both the economy and the citizens of Serbia, I understand that this is also required in the Excise Act, that as soon as they change and the price of motor gasoline and diesel, I understand that and when it comes to taxes, but I don't understand why this is proposed when it comes to corporate tax? Well, they don't pay banks and other financial organizations this tax every day. This tax is established annually, and this is not so urgent, nothing will be lost if it waits about seven or eight days for this to come into force normally, as the Constitution of Serbia requires.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29019	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, and the proposal's representative is not present, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Accizes (single) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Slobodan Janjic, Milovan Radovanovic, together Dusan Cvetkovic, Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk and Ljubomir Mucic. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since we've conducted a joint principle search, I'm opening a search of the draft law in particular. The MP Slobodan Janjic and Dusan Cvetkovic, Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk and Ljubomir Mucic submitted to the amendment in the same text. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29020	In the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, we asked for the removal of Article 1 and in principle we cited the reasons why we are looking for, in addition to this amendment, which would, in fact, mean, if we were to convince the Proposer to withdraw this bill. We consider the imposition of the excise duty unwarranted, as the finance and economy minister, as well as the entire Serbian government, during the 2003 projection and adoption of the budget, had the opportunity to make a correction on the revenue side of the 2003 budget. Fiscal relief has already taken effect. According to the government, inflation does not exist, so there is no reason to increase excise duties on fuel. In addition, the excise duty will certainly affect the rise in prices of oil and gasoline derivatives, and to a large extent not only would the citizens be damaged, due to the increase in prices of all other foods and all other goods. When I say groceries, I mean goods of broad consumption, which have a significant impact on the standard of citizens, but it would have damage and leave consequences for public enterprises dealing with this activity, above all I think about NIS; and around NIS, some spider webs are entangled here, and I assume that this is an additional blow to NIS, to bring it into a worse position before the privatisation that is being prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29021	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Milovan Radovanovic and joint MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk and Ljubomir Mucic (with correction) submitted. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Financial Transactions (Seconds) You have received a proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic, Stevan Kesejić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Zoran Krasic, Dragan Ljubojevic, Milos Radivojčević and (together) Rade Bajic and Nebojsa Jovic. You've received reports from the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Milos Radivojcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want to talk about this amendment? There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29022	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, although there have already been a lot of words about this, let's remind ourselves a little about how this famous financial transaction tax has arisen. It came from two fees: for the restoration of an earthquake area in the Kolubar district of 0.15% on any transaction that has been made and the fees that went directly into the defence ministry's budget, the same amount of 0.15%, due to possible NATO aggression against the SRJ. Following the end of NATO's aggression, a unique 0.30% tax was created for the country's reconstruction. With DOS coming to power, for the sake of changing taxes, it receives an expert title - a tax on financial transactions, although the SRJ Constitution and the Serbian Constitution do not know that kind of taxation, and the initial purpose of introducing the tax is losing its meaning. It loses its meaning because instead of war damage, you have defined yourself as donations that foreign countries are allegedly giving you; I just want to know if they might be some of our claims to them. The subsequent tax laws of the tax rate were consistent with the amounts of transactions made by taxpayers. Now that the reasons for the existence of this tax have ceased, the government of the Republic of Serbia gives us a new bill and reintroduces a single tax rate of 0.22%, instead of removing this type of taxation, as Mr Djelic has promised since we started to reform the tax system and when he introduced a progressive tax rate of 20% on all goods and said that the exception is the only tax on financial transactions, which will be abolished, hopefully, already next year. That hope started in 2001, and here we are in 2003, and in two years' time, he only managed to cut that fee from 0.30% to 0.22%. To make matters even worse, the National Bank of Serbia issued a warrant to business banks, at the time when business banks took over the operation of payment transactions, that the fee for paying taxes on financial transactions is 200 dinar per order, which means that if someone has to pay the amount of taxes on financial transactions, e.g. 20 dinars will pay 200 dinars to a commission of banks, and one part of that commission goes to NBJ, so I believe that this fee is due to a bank lobby. That's where I primarily think of Mladjan Dinkic and G17 plus. It's a little strange that, when it comes to this financial transaction tax, according to DOS announcements and experts and G17 experts, he should be cheaper when he moves to business banks, instead of NBJ, which has been so far, and the NBJ has so far exclusively charged a commission based on traffic carried out through business and jury accounts, at 12.25% of the total turnover for the accounting period. I think it's more time to stop and break the Constitution, tax the untaxable and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29023	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Rada Bajic and Nebojsa Jovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? There is a word from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29024	Fellow MPs, the SPS thinks that this financial transaction tax should be abolished, but we have proposed such an amendment, since we too felt that a transitional solution should be made in relation to the existing situation. The average tax rate over the past year, as this financial transaction law applies, is approximately 0.33%. The ministry suggested that the rate be reduced to 0.22% and that, according to the ministry's account, costs the state budget approximately 2.8 billion dinars. We suggested that the reduction be more significant and that instead of 0.22% be 0.15%, first of all because we had that solution in the past. Secondly, because it is necessary to respect the fact that payment turnover has moved to business banks and that each business bank charges certain fees and fees for payment services according to its business policy. That's absolutely true, and there's no dilemma. These fees are different from the bank to the bank, from 0.3-0.5 and up to 1% for those transactions relating to the purchase of foreign exchanges on the interbank market for payment of imports. Only foreign exchange inflows don't charge at business banks. The Post Office has recently charged a fee for the funds received on the accounts, which is 1%. It should also be borne in mind that all these services made by business banks, the Post Office and all other banks are also taxed by 20%. When you add that to the tax on financial transactions, it is not at all about the insignificant amounts that those involved in the transport plan must pay on any basis to be regular, or correct in front of the state. We also see no reason why this tax rate would exist in the future, at least in the future, because the state does not participate in this business. Payments are due to economic activity that occurred at some point and without the influence of the state. We make the finals by having someone pay us or paying someone and by finishing or rounding up economic activity without any influence from the state. If it had been previously, it was either taxed or taxed in various stages as a sales tax, or as a profit tax, or as a profit tax or as any other kind of tax that appears here. It's interesting that the state always captures those sources that are the most valuable to it, because it's the easiest thing to take this tax. Now you have a problem with how to solve these things, because now the obligation to account for every taxpayer to the state has moved on to that taxpayer. You figure that out, deliver a report to the IRS and give a payment order. These two shops often happen so that you give the bill, and you don't have the money to pay. So far, both accounts and charges have been made by the PDO, i.e. the business bank. There's a difference here. There is also the next SPS amendment. I'll just use a minute on him. You have here provided fines from 2,000 to 200,000 dinars for that taxpayer who does not account for that tax on financial transactions, does not report on it to the tax administration and does not pay. There are real situations in life. We've calculated the tax, we've reported the tax administration, but at that point, we don't have any money in our account. It doesn't come off. So how is it possible to make a payment, or do we have to be late? When we're late, we're being punished for a violation of 2,000 to 200,000 dinars. We have proposed by our amendment that everything remain as the Ministry has suggested, but that the part relating to those two words "and do not pay" be deleted and thus realistically create the conditions to pay the obligation, like all other taxes, within a certain period, in accordance with Article 6 which regulates the deadlines for the settlement of this tax liability.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-18-0.u29025	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. It's 6:00 p.m. already. The next applicant for the amendment is MP Stevan Kesejic. Do you want to explain the amendment now? (Stevan Kesejic, from the post: I will make a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Just a brief notice - a session of the Legislative Committee will be held on Monday 21 April at 1600 hours. The voting day is Tuesday, April 22nd, at 12:00 p.m. The session continues on Tuesday as well. So, a continuation of the session, then a vote, and I have scheduled the sixth session of the First Regular Session, with the following agenda: a proposal for a telecommunications law and a proposal to elect members of the Constitutional Commission. The information works, from April 25th to May 5th, we'll have a break. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. According to official records, 106 MPs attend the session. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: StankoKovačević, Dragan Jocic, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic; (price) Miomir Tadic and Branislav Kovacevic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Financial Transactions (Seconds) You have received the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic, Stevan Kesejić, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Zoran Krasic, Dragan Ljubojevic, Milos Radivojčević and together Rade Bajić and Nebojsa Jovic. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
