ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34289	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I am informing the Members of the Parliament present that I am setting a break until 13.00 hours. It's 11.20. I am informing the MPs that the session is not under way, because we do not have a quorum, but I ask the Members of Parliament not to receive from the bench and to listen to the notice. At 11.20, there is no quorum needed for the session. At 13.00 p.m., all MPs who have an obligation to participate in the quorum, both opposition and majority groups, will be in the room at 13.00 p.m., and for 12.30 I will schedule a meeting with the presidents of the parliamentary groups on the first floor in the cabinet of Parliament President Natasa Micic. Thank you. [[After break - 13.05]] After a certain break, in 13,06 please insert your identification cards into the electronic voting units in order to determine the quorum needed to work. Here you go. I find that we have a quorum to work on and we continue to work in the morning part of the session. A brief announcement from a meeting with MPs' group presidents, who were not attended by DSS MP Mr Dejan Mihajlov and on behalf of the parliamentary group MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. (Goldana Pop-Lazic from the site: Do not give disinformation.) ) The presidents have been invited and in the event of the absence of the president, the deputy president of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative shall be appointed. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic protestes over how to call. She was not considered invited because it was said - the president of the parliamentary groups, the MP throws away - the bosses. In the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly there is no term "boss of the Parliament Group", there is the term "President of the Parliament Group". So, as president of the parliamentary group or vice president, I would like to ask that this be understood as a future call. And no agreement has been reached on the proposal for a vote today on the agenda point, a request for a non-confidential vote by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; and no agreement on a short period of time has been reached to put amendments and amendments to the legislation that would allow the country's courts to continue to function normally after 1 January 2004. The conclusion is that there is time for this and that we will decide that during the session. I think this is an important announcement for all MPs because of the fact that we have enormous difficulties in providing the quorum for the agenda point, the vote of mistrust to the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on the previous point. The request of the chairman is that they apply the Rules of Procedure strictly, which means that they punish for leaving the hall, and that they leave the parliamentary card in the electronic voting unit, the punishment for any disrespect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the part in which the order is determined at the session of the National Assembly and all that would allow the chairman to be the order, because order must be. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL FOR THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE UNUPPROVAL GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (sumption) National MP Dejan Mihajlov, with a throw-off request for a replica. I have given notice of the contents of the meeting of the president of the parliamentary groups, and that is not the basis for replication, because it does not replicate the chair because of the presidency, as referred to in Article 84(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall give the necessary notice during the session of the National Assembly. An apology to the MP for the need to do a stenogram of protection that informed the National Assembly that he would be absent from today’s session. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stanko Kovacevic, Petar Misic, Ratimir Svirčević, Teodora Vlahović, Rodoljub Sabic, Bojan Kostreš, Marijan Risticevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Pal Shandor and Dragisa Marinkovic (before noon). They were invited to attend this session of presidents, vice-presidents, ministers and secretary of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Proposed by the Rules of Procedure - National MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34290	Since you said I was throwing myself off the bench, I didn't, I was just asking for a word with your permission to say why the DSS MP group you called didn't respond, specifically me. (President: People's Parliament, you asked for a word and a basis for receiving the word is to make a proposal by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a proposal based on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. ) Well, since the obvious intent... I have no other proposal under the Rules of Procedure except for the Assembly to continue to do as the Rules of Procedure are intended, to provide the quorum equal to all MPs and to explain all points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34291	According to a proposal issued by the chairman of the DSS parliamentary group, the National Assembly is not being declared because it is also by the Rules of Procedure and by the established agenda for which most MPs have been declared. We continue the debate in principle. The word has a national MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the right to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we start working today, two and a half hours late, because the MPs who are supposed to be holding the government didn't want to put cards in their MPs' units this morning. The debate goes on, we do not understand, of course, the proposal and the call for negotiations on today's vote, because the MPs have yet to say anything about the government. It is possible that MPs who have applied for the discussion will support the government, so it is not clear to me why the ministers have so much interest in defending themselves and their own government, rather than allowing MPs to tell them what they have. Apparently, they themselves know that they no longer enjoy the confidence of this Parliament and are looking forward to a discussion of the MPs. This is another reason and another confirmation that we are right when we seek the resolution of this government, the vote of mistrust to this government, because this government does not respect a parliament that has chosen the same. Unless MPs have the opportunity to say what they think they should say and regarding this item of the agenda, from the play of ministers who abuse this pay phone for two hours, it is clear that the government is slowly collapsing. She's obviously already fallen, she just needs it to be confirmed. Apparently, Zivkovic is stalled, needs to return from China and call the elections, but it will remain written that Serbian radicals have proposed a no-confidence vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia to issue early parliamentary elections. What we have promised citizens and what citizens expect from us and when I say to us, they expect from all of us MPs to allow them to come forward again and give their votes to those who have the most trust. This government and this parliament no longer enjoy citizens' trust and that is quite clear. And to return a little yesterday to the presentation of Mr. Vlahovic, Minister of Economy and Privatisation, to explain to you why the minister had the need for two hours of exposure and that justice was not a thief's privatisation and what was the direct cause. Yesterday, Mr. Minister and I were directly involved in a programme that went to Europe, there was a meeting of journalists at European level in Strasbourg, I don't know what it's called, maybe some conference and it should have been shown that it was reported from the Serbian parliament. Asking journalists what we resent about privatisation and the Serbian government in terms of privatisation, as proposings, I, of course, as they loved me, said in two or three sentences. I said that there is a sale of state and social property, that the value of the companies sold is far below the really estimated value, their real value, that the money from privatisation is being pumped into the budget and used for public spending and not for investment, that this distribution of state and social assets is done because of the fact that through it a small number of people who have come to dirty money are rich, i.e. that the dirty money is washed and that the social programme, both the state and those who buy businesses, is such that those who are left without a job are completely unsecured. That's what I said. Of course, the minister used one five minutes to deny it, but it went into the world, it was heard, what we resented to this government and then Minister Vlahovic had the need here to explain for two hours that it did not. It was a direct occasion, it was 1-0 for me in front of Europe, and Minister Vlahovic failed to evenly match in the extensions. So it's still 1 0 for me on privatisation. Since the minister understands sports, there's a sports club, that's what I told the sports dictionary. So, the extensions didn't bring you anything, the rest is true. As for Minister Vlahovic, Minister Vlahovic and Boza Djelic boasted that Vlahovic had reported assets of more than 20 million, which means maybe 40, 50 and 150 million, and if I respect something, indeed, it is a wealth of individuals and I believe that society can only be rich if there are many rich individuals. Our problem is that we have few rich individuals and, of course, I have nothing against the rich, but I have against those who haven't gotten rich in an honorable way. Of course, I do not claim that Minister Vlahovic did not get rich in an honorable manner, but since we know that he came from Deloitte & Touche as an adviser and as a owner - you were a shareholder, I think in one part of the company that deals with the value of capital and still deals with it in our country - the question is whether Minister Vlahovic acquired those 20 million before becoming a minister or afterwards, so while he is a minister. Because if he acquired that property before he was a minister, it means that he acquired an estimate of our enterprises in depravity, using something in co-operation with those directors who contributed to the fact that privatisation goes bad during or that property is being devalued, then I don't understand why he criticises the previous government and that previous period. If he got rich when he was a minister, then it must have something to do with privatisation again, because of his salary he couldn't. So that's one question, maybe it's private, but the minister can't be protected from these issues, and I think it's also of interest to the public of Serbia. In his speech at one point, it really surprised me, criticising previous legal projects that regulated privatisation, he also referred to the late Prime Minister Djindjic, who stopped privatisation in 1994, if you remember in the Federal Assembly, criticising it, and then I realized what it was. Minister Vlahovic remained consistent, then in 1994, as a member of the SPO, he really thought so and then forgot that he is now a member of the DS and that he should revise his position on the matter. As for this privatisation that you defended yesterday, you said it was impossible to install a tender privatisation, it is impossible to install auction privatisation, yesterday Maria Raseta-Vukosavljevic is still a minister, because she is still not resolved in the Assembly, says and accuses some of the Government, and I don't know who they are, she probably knows that some of the girls of some government, or members of the government in brokerage companies, are getting every other tender, and when a citizen reads that, of course, she suspects both Minister Vlahovic and this government. So if a government minister says this is possible to set up, why should I doubt it? I absolutely believe that, as I believe in what Mihajlovic today said in the newspaper about Covic and the rest. Here's a concrete example, just a few of them, because Mr. Vlahovic's reading didn't convince me that privatisation is going well with us, that there are no abuses, that there are no intentional downsizing of the value of the company, which is the privatisation of the Traveller. You know that Traveller has a hotel in New Belgrade, so Hotel Nais, so some hotels in Bečići, some hotels down in Bujanovac, in Raska. During the sale of Travellers, there was enthusiasm for the employees of Putnik, our man comes from the diaspora, buys Traveler, and the agreement was that five years should not change the purpose of these facilities and there will be no layoff of workers. What happened in the meantime? The agency approves for a change of purpose, first the Traveller Hotel in New Belgrade, the workers are fired and it would have been normal somewhere in the West if it hadn't been for this deal when it was sold that it had to remain such a purpose. In America today, you see one building with one purpose, and tomorrow you see that they have brought down and built something else entirely. Whoever bought it has the right to do whatever they want, but since we're in transition and since we have this law, since we've had these conditions, it took whoever bought the Traveler Hotel and the Traveler Company to comply with those obligations. So he changes the purpose of the hotel to some business building, fires workers and now slowly sells out this other property in Raška, Bečići and renovates with that capital those facilities he wants to keep. Where's the money? He bought the Ambassador Hotel in Nis the same way. That's what's causing the suspicion and what confirms the position of doing it on its own, that we're doing our own damage. We were told here that we were working against privatisation. That's not true first. We're programmed to privatize, we're against social property, and we've said so much about it that it's a way of gaining property that doesn't have title holders and so on, that I'm not talking theory right now. So we are for privatisation, but not for this kind of privatisation and not for the kind of law that you suggested, because we doubted above all those who would enforce this law and proved absolutely right. As for those sugars, we have been shown here that they really were worth no more than three euros. They may not have been worth more than three euros, but there were 800,000 tonnes of sugar beet in those sugars. It produces 80,000 tonnes of sugar and costs 40m euros. He just gave three euros and earned 48m euros immediately. Who can convince us now that it's all within the law and that that's how it had to be? Who ignored the fact how much goods were in stock and what is the value of these sugars? I don't want to talk about the flag right now. To remind the minister that we have two court disputes in front of the International Trade Court in Paris. If you lose those two litigation disputes, and you lose because they and how they protect private property there, and it's about the "Jelen Dol" and I don't know which other firm it is, then we'll only know how the tender and auction sales in Serbia happened. As for New Popovac's cement company, here is the money market, paper, writes - a respected shareholder, we address you according to the warrant of the German company "Britenburger", the new majority owner of the Novi Popovac cement plant, so someone was already before that, and in order to realize the agreed obligation between the Agency for the privatisation of the Republic of Serbia and the "Britenberger"; it was created during the privatisation of the Novi Popovac cement plant. Behind this "Braitenburger" stands the majority owner of Bedzep Pacolli, some Albanian or Shiptar, as it is more interesting or significant to hear. So much for now about privatisation, not to remind you, and maybe later I'll have a chance at the Shipyard where you played a big role, because the ministry together with the government gave the green light to bring bankruptcy into this giant of ours from the field of construction. It was huge in the field of shipbuilding and in Europe, but I won't now. I'll allow you to answer these remarks I've just said to you. This is about Milan Beck, who, along with someone, has bought this company with his godfather, I don't even know whose godfather this company is. He says, as project director with his team, he manages to estimate the value of the Shipyard's social capital over a relatively short period of time, you did so with "Deloitte & Touche", 19.801,800 US dollars, and they say the Shipyard has only 24 hectares and only comparisons for the sake of a 500-ton water crane worth more than 20 million dollars. So, you sold the whole Boardyard for the value of one water crane, and it all went well with you in "The Great Serbia", in September 2001. We've been following your work and abuses since the moment you took office as Minister of Privatisation. Now I'd go back to the building minister, he's not here, because he really confuses the people with what he's saying about this pay phone and what he says about legalization, so I'd ask him if he's in the building or he's going to have opportunities this afternoon or Tuesday, when we continue to work, to come out here and tell him exactly what it costs to legalize a 100-square building in zone 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in Belgrade. We're not asking him anything else, because yesterday we heard from him that it's 45,000 dinars, and then after tonight we hear it's 900 dinars per square if you pay right now, and if you pay in wars it's 180,000 dinars, so no one knows what he's really gonna have to pay if he goes into legalization. For Belgrade, he can collect data and say that zone 1 is so much, zone 2 so much, 3, 4 and 5. Zone Six doesn't exist unless it's some kind of twilight zone. As far as I know, the sixth building zone in Belgrade does not exist. The building minister said there was electricity for free and that that's why the electricity had to be collected, that there were some big malversions about it, so I'd like to remind him how it's done today transparently. It's lit, so everything's nice to see the power being stolen and the power stealing that's still destroying the electricity industry. For the completeness of the information on an article published in one daily magazine, I received one letter saying - it should be addressed by the way in which the electricity consumption is paid not only on billboards, but also on other bright commercials located on the pillars of the Public Enterprise "Electrodistribution of Belgrade" and the City Transport Company, which are leased by EPS, JP "Electrodistribution of Belgrade" companies "Alma Quatro", TV "Multimedia", "Zižgin" etc. According to the Law on Electricity and the tariff system, any connection point from which electricity is sold to the consumer must, in addition, have the approved electricity consent to connect to the network and the measuring device, that is, the number to be recorded by the electricity consumption paid to Electricity under conditions, that is to say, the prices applicable to all electricity consumers. In that case, it's not like that. It's for the citizens. When these lighting ads, which you see everything advertised and who's all on billboards and who owns these agencies that have billboards, it's quite different. How? The companies mentioned not only do they not have electricity consent, but the electricity consumption is paid on a flat, obvious basis, based on some installed power, which is significantly below real, at the price of electricity that is below the cost of wider consumption. Even below the price for citizens and households. This would literally mean that any of the consumers are connected to the power grid without a number and pays electricity at the price below the prescribed, with a flat-rate payment amount. If we could do that, we wouldn't be very interested in what the price of electricity is, but we can't, so we're all very interested. Otherwise, this mentioned lower electricity price, it is the same low-censored price approved by the EPS for public lighting, even here, without numbers. This clearly shows the EPS triangle, the City Assembly, the companies that rent the advertising, the brightening advertising that these advertising sites sell at enormously whiskey prices, all earning profits, and at the expense of the City budget and all electricity consumers, as this loss is compensated for the increased cost of electricity for broad consumption, as well as the increased cost of maintaining the Public Company Elektrodistribution Belgrade. The advertising sites are sold by the companies mentioned -- they say, I don't really know, I guess this is all true -- from 2000 to 3000 euros a year per pillar, depending on the location. If it is taken into account that around 3,000 pillars have been occupied so far, this is the profit of these companies at the expense of consumers, a minimum of 6,000,000 euros per year. There's a topic for a public prosecutor and anti-corruption council, because of harmful contracts. Otherwise, in order to get permission to advertise yourself as an economicist on these lighting sectors, please first contact the Public Power Company of Belgrade, whose pillars are the basic means. They instructed you orally to the Road Directorate, which is part of the City Assembly, who again orally instructed you to the above mentioned companies, so pay the rent and then the City Assembly gives you permission to advertise you. As part of the presidential campaign, billboard advertising is paid, with money turning round, DOS candidate pays this to companies, and then these companies return it to him as a donation. The culprits of these works, here are some names, I don't want to read who they are, but I have no reason to doubt at all, given the source of this memo, that it's absolutely all true. So far, I don't want to abuse what you call a pay phone, but I'm trying to save the reputation of the MPs, who don't have the opportunity to come to this speaker at all, since the debate on the government hasn't started yet, and as a pronouncing on their behalf, I think I'm saying what most of them here in this House are thinking. I expect that we will get answers and that you will finally allow MPs to tell you what they have to say, and you finally report, we have no objection, we will wait for us to hear both your reports and vote on your trust, and you will see that the order is vice versa, because that means respect for Parliament. If you do not respect the one who gave you those positions you are in, then how do you respect the citizens of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34293	With the obligation to present the facts, I find that there has been a fall in the presentation of the national MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The debate has begun in principle. The word had six of the 71 MPs reported, so six MPs had already spoken, and we are under open debate following statements for a word in the search for a 10-hour motion to resolve the government. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Kitanovic. On what basis do you want the word? Speaking to the People's Parliament, it was mentioned that Minister Vlahovic was a member of the SPS. [[Tomislav Kitanovic stands behind the pay phone, but you can't hear what he's saying.]] If you have different data, I don't see any reason to get a replica. You do not have the right to reply, because the party has not been mentioned. The SPO party is not mentioned in an offensive context because it is not an insult to be or not to be a member of any party. You have no right to a replica. The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, let's first announce to the public this very often mentioned SPO. It is true that I was a member of the SPO from 1991 to 1995. I'm proud of it because on one side I was very clearly in opposition, and I've never been in any of the party's organs, except in my Sopot, where I live today, with my friends who were on the Municipal Committee of the SPO. It's the whole history of my opposition activity. When it was very dangerous to be an opposition, at the very beginning of the multi-party, and as I had the need this March 13th to put myself clearly on the side of the DS, to put on my DS uniform and thus show belonging and loyalty back then, in 1991, I had a clear need to distance myself from what was only in Serbia. As for the questions raised behind this speaker, and about my presentation yesterday, of course I will be happy to answer all the open dilemmas or questions. First, to be clear, it is not nice to say at least that privatisation was stopped thanks to DS in 1994. You know very well that many of you were members of parliament, that the DS proposed a package of laws that was supposed to correct some systemic errors in the 1991 Privatisation Act at the time of galloping and hyperinflation in 1993, and that the then parliamentary majority of the law was four, chosen only one and stood by that proposal which was not its own, with the motion against the adoption of only one law. In fact, one skillful manipulation of the parliamentary majority has remained untrue that the DS has proposed a revaluation of previously made privatisations. This is what the public does and the truth is doing, and I suppose you know very well, but you don't want to tell the truth about this speaker, and it speaks enough about the way you use this pay phone. As for my previous engagement, professional, from Deloitte & Touche, and for the sake of the public, once again to repeat what I did not know how many times, I left the day before the Government of the Republic of Serbia was elected in 2001. If I'm not mistaken, the government was elected on January 25th, and on January 24th I left "Deloitte & Touche", not freezing my status and actions, shares, but by withdrawing the full ownership role I played in "Deloitte & Touche". Since then, I have worked exclusively in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's my only profession and it's my only interest. While I was at "Deloitte & Touche" my only interest was the well-being of the company I worked in. Now that I'm in the government, my only interest is the welfare of the state, because it's the government that represents the state's interest. It would be good if all of us were to act on this principle, to work exclusively in the interests of the institution or the company in which we are located, without trying to correct the wrong Drina in another institution, another company, because it is not in the works of responsibility. Therefore, my interest is of state interest because I am in the government and for this I get a monthly salary, which is small in relation to the responsibility that the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation has. You've received an indirect answer to your question. Everything I've earned, I've earned before I entered the government. I didn't run away from it for a second. On the contrary, why should I run away from something that I can be proud of, working at Deloitte & Touche Central Europe, that means in 18 Central European countries, not only in Serbia and not only in Montenegro, but also in all other countries. So that I don't bother the public and you who is the system of work at Deloitte & Touche, may have changed in the meantime, but in any case it's not interesting at the moment. Often insinuations occur behind this speaker, and you know very well that this is not true, that my former firm has some special privileged position in the privatisation process, that is, what the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation does. You have received a report from the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry of Business and Privatisation on the number of financial and legal advisers participating in the privatisation process, on how financial and legal advisers are elected, on the height and price paid for financial and legal advisers. I can guarantee you, and you can check, not that "Deloitte & Touche" is not among the top five, but is not among the first ten hired financial advisors. By its quality, it certainly deserves to be among the top five, which means it pays the price because I'm in this place and because some of my other colleagues decided to take advantage of the chance for this country at some point, which means they're implementing it through the necessary successful economic transition program. So you have that information and you can check it out. Instead of reading newspaper articles, go out with a report from the Privatisation Committee and read the figures as to how many financial and legal advisers are, among other things, engaged in the privatisation process and tell the public the truth. As for brokerage companies that receive each other's tender, as reportedly, in one interview, also consult the same data source and see how financial and legal advisers are engaged and that there are no brokerage houses that receive each other's tender. Customers in the privatisation process are at least brokerage houses. They only appear when the rest of the shares in the Belgrade Stock Exchange portfolio are sold. There are no brokerage houses in the tender and auction privatisation process. A tender for the selection of financial advisers, where also brokerage houses, except for what is sold on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, is under way. If you are interested in how many brokerage houses and for which they are engaged, when the Action Fund sold stock packages in its possession, you also have that in your report. It's just enough to have one diagonal visual exam and you'll see that what you said about this speaker is not true. As for Travellers, it is true that Traveller is privatised in a public tender, that the contract is completed this year and it is true that there is a customer's obligation not to fire employees. If the customer fires employees past the contractual obligation, it is a breach of the contract and sanctions will be taken against the buyer. I promise you that the National Assembly will be informed, or the Privatisation Committee, and thus all MPs. I will try to gather all relevant information and make known to the public what the real truth is. As regards the sale of certain parts of the assets: yes, it is possible, with the consent of the Agency. If the company is in a situation where restructuring is necessary, it is a Traveler that should have done so before privatisation, that parts of its capacities are engaged differently, in order to raise their financial and business performances. The question is, why isn't it done? Because social property is inert, slow, inefficient, because in social property there is no expression of the entrepreneurial potential and of the entrepreneurial skills it has in private property. As for sugarcanes, it is true that there was a supply of goods, but it is also true that there were huge short-term obligations. Remember, the principle of dual accounting requires that you always look at assets, but also at the height of liabilities. At the press conference, during the selection process of sugar buyers, it was very clear what short-term obligations were made in relation to the short-term activity, i.e. the short-term property of these sugars sold for three euros. You had a chance to see that short-term liabilities were greater than short-term assets. Thus, this information has absolutely no effect on the height of value. Once again, we have defined ourselves as a concept of market value, which means that we have open, public processes, that no one has the right to prevent the buyer from participating in tender and auction privatisation and to win the one who gives the best price. The better the company, the better the company, the bigger the competition. In this larger competition, we can expect better conditions for both workers and businesses, but also for the state, when it comes to privatisation revenues. If the company has worse financial and business performances, then there's no competition. There's one or most often no buyer. All we have to do is secure the flow of information and there's an even match. That's what we did. As for some court disputes, international arbitration, at this point only one international arbitration is being conducted, and this is the famous Galenika case, which I will remind you, was inherited from 1991. There is no international arbitration for the companies mentioned. On the contrary, there is a complaint of dissatisfied potential customers. But anyone who is dissatisfied has the right to complain has the right to use not only regular, but also extraordinary legal medicines. That's real customers. We don't have any problem with that. We have no problem with complaints from participants in the privatisation process. We just have no problems, but we don't want to hear lies in the press, in the media, about this pay phone. On any particular case, where customers have complained, we can provide you with complete information and why it is not a contract concluded with the originally selected buyer for "Jellen Do", but with the second-placed one. And why is it that at other auctions, whoever had the best offer in the tenders and didn't give bank guarantees, eliminated etc. I didn't inform you yesterday that we already have 16 broken contracts with customers in the auction privatisation process. Why? Because the Agency’s activities do not end at the moment of successful auctions, i.e. a successful tender, they are, on the contrary, particularly expressed in the post-privatisation process, as monitoring of the realisation of contractual obligations is necessary. Contractual obligations relate to investment, the social programme and other contractual obligations that are not directly related to enterprises, but possibly local communities, in terms of carrying out obligations made by the buyer towards the local community. The post-privatization sector, or department of the Agency, which monitors what happens after privatisation, already has about 100 employees today. At first, it was a few because we didn't even have a lot of privatisation. Today, this business is given particular attention by the Agency, i.e. by the Ministry, because it is our right, the law of the Agency, but also the obligation to get a report from customers twice a year on how the obligations are carried out and to make twice a year visit to the companies in the privatisation process. As I said, where the non-compliance of the contract was found, 16 companies were involved, the contract was terminated and the original property situation in those companies was restored. These 16 are not much compared to 950 privatized companies. On the other hand, we have 12 companies that are also expected to end the contract. However, we have one problem: in two cases, trade courts have annulled the Agency's decision to terminate the contract and then the dissatisfaction in these companies is unjustly directed towards the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, towards the Agency. And she's making every effort to fully comply with the rules defined by the law, which you've adopted, gentlemen Members of Parliament, and by the vast majority, to implement them in practice, to adhere to all principles and to react wherever insolvent customers appear. We haven't said for a moment that all customers will be solvable, with a sincere market intention. On the contrary, as in any business, and here at the beginning we knew that we could expect insolvent customers who would not meet their obligations and therefore we focused our attention on the post-privatization period. As for the Popovac cement factory, you will get today, if you do not have, a copy of the contract with which the Privatisation Agency signed the contract, so you will see very clearly who is the majority owner of Popovac cement. As far as the Belgrade Shipyards are concerned, two claims have been made: one, that the Shipyard went bankrupt on a proposal from the government and the ministry; and another, that I sold the Shipyard myself. No claim is true. First, the Belgrade Shipyard was never sold. Secondly, the Shipyard, the one who says it went bankrupt on the Ministry's proposal, exhibits a lack of knowledge of bankruptcy issues. Who can carry out the bankruptcy proceedings? The bankruptcy procedure can only be initiated by the trustee or the socio-political community, literally as stated in the Bank’s Bankruption Act, if there is a drastic distortion of the value of the funds. The Ministry of Business and Privatisation, the government, cannot be the initiator of the bankruptcy process. It is true that "Deloitte & Touche" in 1997-1998 evaluated the value of Shipyard, but I really wouldn't want to repeat with you again a lesson as to what the market value of capital means, whether it's a mere set-up and a set of assets, so when you reject that property, that's the value of capital, or a market postulate is accepted that the company exists to make a profit rule. If there's no profit, then there's no company value. Therefore, I would not want to publicly bother with the elemental postulates of value assessment, i.e. approaches, with concrete methods of assessing the value of capital, because it doesn't matter here. What is important, Belgrade Shipyard has never been sold and in bankruptcy Belgrade Shipyard has never gone on a proposal from the ministry or government, because it is simply impossible under the law. Since yesterday, due to the end of my working hours, I would now, if you're agreeing, to finish my presentation from yesterday, which means to round up a story that referred to a built-up legislative framework and, on the other hand, rather rarely, to try to give an answer. I won't stay long. I certainly don't want to abuse your attention and your time. I really want to answer the question - what is actually going on with the level of industrial production, whether the dramatic data on the decline in industrial production is about 3.6%, which was achieved in the January-September period of last year, as measured by January-September last year, and whether in Serbia there is structural change, not only in the industry, but also in the economic structure at all. First of all, in the past two years, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation has twice implemented a programme of agriculture. This means financing trade capital for the production of agricultural machinery, where it was included, literally, all producers of agricultural machinery in the reprolance. For these purposes, one billion dinars were allocated in these two defined programmes of agriculture for 2002 and 2003. I would also like to say that in the previous period, in the previous few months, just after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, given that the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation has been given the authority to define strategically the development policy of the dedicated industry together with the Ministry of Defence and, on the other hand, with the Army of Serbia-Montenegro, I want to say that in August of the month we adopted, on the proposal of the Ministry of Industry and Privatisation, the Strategy for the restructuring of the undertaking of the dedicated industry and that we started to realise this strategy, that all enterprises from the dedicated industry were currently in the process of restructuring, that some of these companies had realised the social programme, and some of the financial restructuring. This is very important, given that during the previous period, while the intelligence of the dedicated industry was at federal level, these companies were more or less in a vacuum, without clearly defined intelligence. The adoption of the strategy is the final of our joint engagement of all institutions, not only at the level of the Republic of Serbia, but also at the level of the state community. As you know, the dedicated industry is a specific complex, whose business is regulated by a special regulation of the former federal state, the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment and all the sublaws passed under that law. Since these laws provide for significant restrictions, and in addition to Article 35 which regulates the assessment of the value of government capital, these companies and under that law there are no provisions relating to privatisation, it has proved necessary to define more precisely the jurisdiction and authority of federal and republican state authorities. The dedicated industry has indeed experienced extremely negative trends in the previous period, and today it is in great difficulty. Two key specifics that can today characterize the dedicated industry are very little capacity utilisation and a drastic reduction in domestic procurement. What we want to do and what is already in place is to separate the civilian from the military programme, the rapid privatisation of the civil programme in the dedicated industry, and beyond that the start of privatisation, in line with the needs of the Yugoslav Army and with the strategy defined in the previous period between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation and on the other hand the Ministry of Defence of the Serbian-Montenegro State Community. Therefore, privatisation with a strategic partner, which should significantly contribute to raising capacity utilisation rates, which means production, and on the other hand, which should help the dedicated industry to be in the right sense, those words in the future and exporters, as it once was. I will not mention that due to some export arrangements, the position of the dedicated industry is additionally difficult, but I would just like to say that the decision taken by the US administration a few days ago represents the opening of a new market for a part of the dedicated industry and I expect that this part of the dedicated industry will take its chance, of course, with great support coming from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the previous period, a total of nine laws were adopted in this National Assembly on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. Also in the process, and most of all, all these laws have been defined already for this session of the National Assembly, there are five laws. In this way, the framework of the so-called framework is completely rounded up. company rights, i.e. the law governing business, or the framework for the business of the company. I'm just going to remind you what laws in the previous period were very important and adopted by the National Assembly. In addition to the Privatisation Act, the Privatisation Agency, the Action Fund, then the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development, and I thank you for adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises, then the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs and the Guarantee Fund Act. I won't talk about the importance of these laws, you could hear it from my previous presentation. Also, bankruptcy laws have been proposed. The bankruptcy as a procedure has been in place since April of the Republic Government's control, and we haven't really wasted time to propose a law on the restructuring of that part of the Serbian economy, which is responsible for reviving that part of the Serbian economy, and I hope at this session you will pass a bankruptcy law, the law on the bankruptcy agency, as well as two very important laws, and this is the law on registration of business entities and the law on the Agency for Registration of Business Entrepreneurs. Finally, the law on companies is being prepared, this National Assembly will be presented for adoption after the public debate is concluded; the law on commercial societies will be in the National Assembly in January of next year. Once again, with the adoption of this law, we have circled the framework of company law and I am very pleased that in the four-year term, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation has achieved everything that has been drawn from the aspect of the rounding of the legislative framework and that it will be in a position to launch two more very important processes, which means that it will be much easier for the government to realise the work they will have ahead of them, and these two processes are bankruptcy processes. On the other hand, the registration process, it will be segregated from trade courts, the procedure will allow it to be much cheaper in the coming period, at the same time much more efficient, and that means, removing all obstacles to entrepreneurial momentum. In the end, without the intention of usurping the right to speak on this pay phone, because many times after this pay phone, it was heard that the Ministry of Industry and Privatisation was actually the Ministry of Privatisation and that it was an economy. The industry doesn't particularly care: that's not true. You could hear in both yesterday's and today's presentation of what the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation did, above all on the system plan, which means defining the legislative framework in order to eliminate obstacles, to adopt effective corporate legislation, to round the framework, and thus to allow the entrepreneurial potential to gain momentum in the full sense of that word and to significantly increase the chance of inflow of direct capital from abroad, but also domestic private capital. By eliminating systemic risks, you are in fact creating a less risky atmosphere and creating a greater chance of making as much investment inflow as possible. Then, secondly, we showed - unlike some who insist on market mechanisms, while criticising us that we are not taking enough care of the economy, unlike those who feel that the flag problem can be solved by itself, that the MIN problem, the big businesses problem can be solved by itself, that it should be irresponsible to tell these workers, to this leadership, and you can do so yourself and solve the problems you have in your company - that we did not choose that path, but we chose the path of active restructuring, along with the painful measures of the social programme. But the government has made it very clear that the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation has started the process of restructuring, financing social programmes, and today most of these companies are no longer in the irrevocable loss zone, but the difference in their income and costs is zero or within the area of bearable losses, or in the profit zone. Many companies have the chance to be successfully privatized. It is about large polyconglemers, with a large number of activities involved, i.e. in these holdings, and their ability to privatise, the chances of privatisation were very low at the beginning of the restructuring process. We have shown that through the subsidy programme, we have actually maintained large systems in life and allowed them not to be privatised through bankruptcy, but to be privatised, and thus their performances to be raised to one higher level in the normal process and also increased all the chances of privatisation. We have shown that we have opened a channel for public investment to raise economic activity, which will be particularly reflected in 2004, when much greater amounts of public investment are expected in infrastructure investments. This is the way, and it is known that one dinar invested in infrastructure creates three dinars of total economic activity. As defined for the market principle in determining the value of capital, not for the administrative concept, to be the result of any previous estimates and the result of the management decisions, we have been defined for the production of the market, not for the production of stocks, not for the physical volume of industrial production at all costs, but for the producer, the production that the market will be able to accept, the production that will be able to compete with other producers. When you have an unequal economy, which has lost its competitive capacity, if you are building a market environment and if you are going towards restructuring the economy, it is perfectly normal that at one point you have a decline in the volume of industrial production. For your information, other countries that were in transition had a decline in industrial production by more than 10%. For example, there is Poland, which in the first, second and third year of transition had a decline in the volume of industrial production even up to 15%, and many say - well, but we have passed the transition shock of the 1990s. That's simply not true, because in the 1990s we had a sanctioning shock, a shock of the collapse of the market, but not the shock that we decided to travel to economic transition in 1990-1991. The economic transition in Serbia has started since 2001, from the moment the Serbian government defined the economic transition programme. Why do I say that? Only in 2001 do we have stable macroeconomic conditions, no inflation, no inflationary budget deficit. We have very precise budget subsidies, which are very clearly placed in companies in the restructuring programme. Then, since 2001, we have not raised public debt, but rather a reduction of public debt to our own population. I'll remind you that we have very clearly defined all our debts to the population and started to pay them off. Only since 2001 do we eliminate all systemic risks, agreement with the Paris Club, then agreement that we expect with the London Club, the return of the IMF and the World Bank, which finance the costs of transition and only since 2001 we have a situation that good businesses are able to collect profits because they are good and bad businesses because they are bad have to pay the price of their failure, and that price fails the liquidation. However, we are not at the beginning, as some have suggested, of allowing market mechanisms to separate the goods from the bad companies in a stable macroambience, because we have entered into financing, financing liquidity and social programmes in enterprises that are in restructuring, in order to share the costs of transition together, and this is the formula that has been successful in Central European countries, which have successfully overcome the period of demand. But to succeed, to finish, it takes time. No one has a magic wand to finish the job in six months. That takes time. I remind the public that other countries in transition in the seventh, eighth, ninth year were returning to that level of industrial production that they had at the very beginning of the transition. You can consult, if you want, the experiences of all other countries, so you'll see that's true. We don't have a further drop in the volume of economic activity. It is true that this year we will probably have a stagnation of the volume of industrial production, but that is why we have an increase in other economic activities, which will allow us to increase the overall economic activity and thus the social gross product. Therefore, quality is something that reflects the market and market economy, not quantity, which is related to the administrative economy, and I am not surprised that you constantly highlight the quantity in the first plan, because it is the administrative economy that binds itself to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34295	National MP Tomislav Kitanovic is again looking for a word. On what basis are you looking for a word? It's a replica based on the mention of the party. National MP, the Serbian Renewal Movement is not mentioned in a negative context, nor offensive, nor false, nor would a speaker be allowed to talk about the party in such a way. He would have been warned, then warned. You have no right to a replica. National MP Zechariah Trnavcevic seeks the right to reply. The basis for the replica? (Zahari Trnavcevic: The basis for the replica is that on November 4th I was the last speaker and three MPs insulted me. Yesterday I went to the shoot, applied neatly, and the president of the assembly accepted my leave, and today I have the opportunity to respond to the insults brought here. As I said, I spoke at 1800 hours, and beyond that, Mr Krasic, Angelkovic and Dejan Mihajlov qualified my speech in an offensive manner. ( b) National MP, you have challenged the replicas of other MPs on November 4th. If you are mentioned in the presentation of one of the Members of the People who did not go out on the line, please tell me which MP to give you the right to reply. (Zaharije Trnavcevic: Zoran Angelkovic said I spoke hate language. ) National MP Zoran Angelkovic, who has been given the right to a word without replication to your presentation. In that case, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34296	I have a stenogram here. It's written down what anybody said. So, in the absence of arguments, not one single fact of the gentleman mentioned was able to dispute, as always, but that's why they described my speech as hate language. I don't hate anyone...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34297	Excuse me, MP. I ask that MP Zoran Angelkovic take his place in the bench. The MP who asked for a word based on insight into the stenogram from the meeting and on the working day of the session of the Assembly on November 4th claims to seek a replica based on the presentations you had as a national MP without having obtained the right to the word by the replica. Please make an insight into the stenogram, and now take your place in the MP's bench. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34298	So, let me finish. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, neither of you, regardless of your party orientation, I do not hate, but I do not approve of anyone's actions that are against the interests of the citizens. That's what I was saying. Mr. Angelkovic just said one offensive thing, he mentioned what I listened to several times per village -- "the lamb brigades" etc. It all says that Zoran Angelkovic doesn't have the right answer to what he was listening to here from me for five minutes on November 4th. The same goes for others. Mr. Dejan Mihajlov missed saying that I was protesting what was abused by my participation in a panel discussion about agriculture. They immediately realized it by supporting Mr Voy Kostunica. That was absolutely not true, and I told Dusan Prophetovic that it was an unholy thing that was done. I should like to tell you, as well as the viewers, the government of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia's late Zoran Djindjic and current Zoran Zivkovic are trying to heal the wounds you have made for the citizens of Serbia, to ease them. Some have already been relieved, but those expressed in death, the homeless of many people, will never be able to relax. Otherwise, I repeat to the promoters and the opposition - my offer remains, call, challenge, to make a balance on what this government has come from you and what is today, what is the situation. Listen if you can, go ahead. It's five minutes, not two and a half hours. Here you go, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34299	National MP Zoran Angelkovic is asking for a word. On what grounds? I ask the MPs to listen to the speaker with attention. National MP Zoran Angelkovic is right because he is mentioned in the presentation of Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34300	First, I replicated the day before yesterday at 17.55 p.m. Mr. Zahari Trnavčević for speaking offensively about the political party I represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34301	National MP, you have been granted the right to reply because you claim to be mentioned in the presentation of the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vlahovic. Please take advantage of your business right to the replica if Minister Vlahovic misread or mentioned you in an offensive way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34302	Since I've been involved in this political party, there's no dilemma at all, but because of the public, you have to know. One sentence: I had a replica on Mr. Zahari Trnavčević. He couldn't get a word today, but what he said, let him assess the public and what he was saying back then. About the Revaluation Act. It is true, Mr. Vlahovic, that the DS proposed the Revaluation Act and then I was head of the parliamentary club. I personally spoke to Mr Djindjic about the law being placed on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament and we put it on the agenda. I was an MP and head of the Parliament Club. The majority of the assembly, it is true, the amendments completed the law and completed it. How did she build it? So as to prevent 75% of companies that were then social ones from privatizing under the law and starting from inflation, from using inflation to move social assets into private hands. The Revaluation Act has stopped it. That percentage is down to 3%. At that time, 500 companies launched the process, complaining of the law and complaining that they were denied by the fact that they were no longer workers of majority owners, but that the state or social capital was the majority owner of these companies. That leaves only 3% of companies with majority ownership, shareholders and businesses. Therefore, these are facts. There's a stenogram about it and it's easy to establish. And then we were, here's the date of July 29, 1994, to prevent the robbery of social property, and then we were for privatisation, but privatisation where workers will get their participation, where social capital will be properly valued, not in a way that sells for a dollar. When you talk about it, it's the fact that this social property has no entrepreneurial potential, and what you're selling now. What do you privatize if there isn't? That's what social property did. He didn't make someone else, he didn't make private property or Hemofarm, or sugars, or cementers, it was social property. It is a period and a time of history in which this social property has shown all its justification, created and employed hundreds of thousands of workers. In the time between private property in the West and state property in Eastern and European countries, social property has shown its justification here and employed hundreds of thousands of workers. Now social conditions are such, not today, I've been speaking for the last ten years and when this social property should be privatized. We're all for it, we're just against her privatizing herself in the way Mrs. Rusheta said in the interview, and she's still a minister and I have reason to believe her, that every other minister has a girlfriend in brokerage houses and that in that way she privatises that every other tender gets people from the government. That's the facts. She said it, I didn't say it. She said in an interview in a weekly telegraph yesterday. Therefore, these are facts against which we are. For privatization, but privatisation fair, not privatization of a set tender.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34303	The word was requested by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac, and by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic. I ask the MPs of the people, MP Zoran Angelkovic, MP Dragos Babic, MP of the people, Vesa Jankovic, to stop the dialogues in the parliamentary benches that interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34304	I just wanted to tell Mr. Angelkovic that he wasn't the only MP in this room at the time, so was I, and there are more. The truth is that the character of the DS proposal has been completely changed, and you yourself said that about the pay phone, your amendments. You have practically turned one initiative into its opposite and the effect of all this was completely opposite of what was desired. If you're already talking here, if I understand you correctly, you're making pledoies for social property again. Besides, if I'm not mistaken, it's in your party's program and it's writing equality of two forms. If you've changed, I apologize, I know it's written. But the fact is, that's when the privatisation was stopped. The fact is that you chose a model of privatisation that is extremely unfair, it's so-called. insider privatisation, where just in fact those who are employed get property in those companies. I'll tell you, Mr. Angelkovic, what every teacher of Belgrade University or any other teacher will tell you: I have 30 years of work experience, which is my property. None, because I can't even have a college building, a university. So that's one model, the concept of privatisation, which is deeply unfair to us, all the other health workers, in education. They can't. I must tell you, at that time I belonged to a party who was at first aware that you used a positive initiative to turn it into a opposite and actually stop the actual privatisation process. They don't need stenograms, there are us who were MPs back then, and we know what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34305	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic. National MP Zoran Angelkovic, a replica of the government's opening after the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34306	First, for information, it wasn't 500 companies that sued, it was 475. As for your honesty for privatisation, you had the opportunity to show it throughout the period of the 1990s: to pass one law on privatisation in 1991; to then take advantage of a good DS initiative to change the essence of this law with amendments and stop privatisation; to pass the law in 1997, and to prohibit action by shareholders. The law was passed in 1997 and entered into force on October 31st, at St. Luke. Then, at the same time, to say that you are for action, and you are not setting up an institution of the action fund, which is the assumption that this action could wave, that at the same time those who sat in your government, who are directors, do not allow the start of privatisation in their companies, but rather rather catch the last train in November, December 2000. Why did you do this, the public should know: well, in order to have political control in the economy, because you can only achieve it by keeping social property for life, because the social director will easily change and set up when the economic system is based on social property. Why didn't you enter the free distribution of shares to the population in 1990, when it made sense to do so? Back in 1990, when our economic position was incomparably better than today, than in 2000, than in 2001. Why do you now mention the example of Slovenia from privatisation, what Slovenia did in 1991, why did you not then? Because you wanted to have political control in the economy, because the whole state was a form of political control of one party. The way we presented privatisation, the privatisation program, the law, we made it very clear that we do not want to have political control in the economy. On the contrary, we want to have clear tickets in the economy as soon as possible. State property only where it's necessary and everything else in private property. I love private property not because I love private owners very much, but because when a private company goes bankrupt, the state doesn't hurt its head. The head hurts of a private contractor. It's normal that when a private company makes a profit, that owner owns that profit. It's a game and it's competition. Competition exists in the market economy, there is economic, there is political competition. You did not allow competition in the market economy to be made because you are afraid of every word that has competition in it. You're afraid of every competition process, because the first time real political competition happened, you were wiped out of the political scene, and, as I told you a few days ago, you went to the lagoon, the fat ladodine, where you'll stay long.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34307	The right to replicate the presentation of Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korać, MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34308	And when the people give us less trust than we'd like to have, we remain faithful to the political idea we have, and we don't change the political idea in line with the one in power. When the SPO was a strong political party, you then chose that political party, and now that they are gone, you choose the DS, which is in power. That's when it comes to fighting for competition. First of all, Mr. Korach is right. It is true that we wanted to stop inflation from making full privatisation and sale of assets. You're right about that, and in that sense, the parliamentary majority, I said, perhaps we didn't understand each other, has implemented the addition of the law to prevent inflation from being privatised. There's no dispute here. Secondly, it is true, at the last convention on January 18th, that private property is something that is necessary for this state of Serbia and that leads us to Europe and the European Union. It is also true that in our previous views we had equality between both social and private and state property, but competition has always been in this country. Had it not been for competition, Serbia's economy would not have been competitive on the European market, would not have been exported to Germany, would not have exported to many other countries, where we had the largest exports. One thing where the SPS was wrong in privatisation and I publicly admit it, which is that we didn't arm the Privatisation Act and we didn't finish it until 1999 or until 2000. You would now not have the opportunity to privatise and sell out that property, but the majority of companies would be mainly workers. If you weren't right that you couldn't own the stock either, here, Joca Arsic owns shares in the "C Market", Mr. Vlahovic assessed the value of these companies. Two-thirds of the owners or every three shares in the "Apatino brewery", two shares are owned by people outside the company, from education, from Croatia, soldiers, police officers, etc. who have never worked at the Apatino brewery. They're selling their shares now and that's their right. Some earn, some take shares of 10,000 euros, some 100,000 euros, and that's the right. The previous law allowed, allowed and created conditions that even those outside the company, who worked in social activities, were sufficient space, 60%, that workers would also be satisfied with getting shares, based on the number of years spent in the company, but also to get employees in social activities, education, police, etc. Now with 30%, even workers can't be satisfied. The workers don't even have enough room to get those shares. Therefore, it shows all the absurdity of this difference or, better yet, the advantages of this law. The advantage is on the side of that law, and we're responsible for not bringing him to an end, for not arming him, so that you wouldn't have anything to sell right now. If we had anything to leave behind, it's only this year that you've privatized 900 companies. How do Americans put it and have nothing to invest in? How did they buy it, "Sartid"? He didn't come from the west, he didn't fall from the sky, so he's privatizing. (Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic throws out of place. ) First communists, so the Socialists kept it, Mr. Vlahovic. They also kept Hemofarm and the Apache brewery and Toza Markovic. These companies are privatized under the law and are now the best companies in this country and are competitive in the West wherever you want. This shows the advantage of the privatisation over this privatisation that is now being conducted. These are different concepts. We also present some citizens of Serbia with an assessment of who was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34309	National MP Tomislav Kitanovic is asking for the right to replication. The basis for the replica: a statement in the previous speaker's speech that SPO was a strong party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34310	The SPO was a strong party, today an even stronger party. It is a strong party when it is not in power, and when it has committees in all municipalities in Serbia, it also has committees outside the country. Serbs who are on temporary work abroad make up SPO committees outside the country. We've got all the boards in the country. It is not a SPO party that when it is in power, while it has functions, privileges, positions, money, jobs etc., strong, when it comes down from power, then it is divided into three, four, five parties, as many as it currently has. The SPO currently has committees in all municipalities in Serbia and is seriously preparing for early parliamentary elections. I wanted to say earlier that, in addition, the SPO has its own economic programme and in this sense I thought that the current position of Minister Vlahovic and the SPO economic programme is not being brought into context. Otherwise, as for Mr Vlahovic and other former SPO members, some of whom are MPs, ministers, in some important places, the SPO is not distanced in this regard and is grateful to these people for the country's contribution to democratisation. It's just that in the current situation, the SPO does not support the government's economic programme. The SPO has its own programme, the government has its own programme, and that is the difficult point that the SPO will not support this government, its economic programme, which is such an economic situation and the material position of our people. As for the former members, as for the correctness of these relations, gratitude and we do not think that we should underestimate the contribution they have also made in the democratisation of the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34311	The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević. Does the SPS parliamentary group stay at the request for a different order than that in the list? So, after MP Vladimir Garcevic, the word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34312	The Honorable Presidency, as far as I can see, only Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Korac, the honourable fellow MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, after the contest in the exhibition itself, managed to come to order after a few days and a third or fourth MP. I'll take some order. As the current authorities have been talking about the past three years, I will start from the previous three years in a row. First, it came to power by burning down the Assembly of Yugoslavia, destroying Television, entering armed squads with long pipes into the National Bank. Who were those who broke in with the long pipes at the National Bank? So far they have not responded, nor has the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior brought normal legal state and responsibility for all that they have done. Furthermore, they say it's democratic power. They would agree that it was democratic, but how when they came here the other day in front of the Assembly, to a hundred people, workers, in front of the Parliament itself, I was a witness, who longed for bread, to have certain units, to which they warned the previous government that it was not good. A man must stick to something and not over 200, 300 as many as there were young men in uniforms, refer to innocent workers who seek nothing but bread. This power must provide bread to the citizens of Serbia. I would now use and warn unions - MPs in the Republic Assembly have the possibility that workers will not go out into the streets. It is next and I call on all those interested in helping the working class not to be found on the street, to make the following moves: to vote Monday that the following laws are not in force - the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Labour, the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the Employment Act. These are four laws to be suspended until the most favourable solutions for Serbian citizens and workers are found. With this, no one would have the need, comrades MPs, to be with the unions, but let us do it in the Serbian Parliament, not to deceive the workers, but to tell them - the laws have been passed by MPs, the laws will be removed, there are no facts, and we will return the laws and find new solutions that are necessary for the citizens of Serbia and for the workers in Serbia. When it comes to the Privatisation Act, I am sorry that there is no Minister Vlahovic, I would suggest that this government change it, and Minister Vlahovic, I am not going in whether he knows or not, but the Agency that covers Vojvodina has a president or executive who was, in America, 26 years old, those advisers illiterate. And what happens in my town, in Sremska Mitrovica. Today they're beating up workers at Agro Sam's company. In that name I greet them, to preserve what they have created for years. I would ask from this speaker minister and let him answer me in the next period, if he knows the names of Igo Sabo, who served the previous three months in prison, whether he is familiar with Djermanovic, and unfortunately one of the MPs in the Federal Assembly of Antun Kaic. As far as all the factories in Sremska Mitrovica are concerned, I'll be on my way. The valve factory was bought by a fan, although it worked, had its own products, sold by a foreign market. She had no need for haste ever. And the latest factory that's now being sold is Mitros. To see how it works, I'm not going to say which political party, has introduced a crisis headquarters into the Mitros who worked and had regular salaries on the 10th, first, 20th. They've never been late. She's brought in a crisis staff and there's going, all the crisis headquarters are working, to get the workers to have no salaries, and the pigs are 35 dinars. Who's showing up? The director of Kuzmnac, who belonged to a certain party, and let them think, know which one he is, organized a strike by workers to sell Mitros for three euros, and you know who, will be sold to a large DOS from Zemun. What's "Mitross" got to do with the latest? There is for the production, slaughter of chickens one slaughterhouse, for the production of a product that was put into operation not long ago, in 1999. Furthermore, the sugar factory must neither be sold nor run in Mitrovica for the great businessman, MK Komerc, Mr Kostic, driving his tail, and very close, so he does not need much in the sugar shop in the Caves, but because Redka has no raw materials, because Srem is the best country that gives income and gives fruit that does not enjoy the citizens of Srema and Sremska Mitrovica. We don't let the robbery meet, we want the money left in Srem and the citizens of Srem. The SNS will take power in Sremska Mitrovica and return what belongs to them to the citizens. That's for sure in the next election. Education, it's a special story. After they sold the factories, they kept their salaries and I can't say what's true now, they're regular. But what is predicted in 2005, that Serbia will starve, that this education that has somehow been tried will be given, to cloud, reform to be implemented, and on whose order. By order of those who were abroad to school, in Segedin and who knows where in Germany, and all those experts say they're experts. I wish one of the vice-presidents today on the Belgrade Television, it is Mr. Korac, that he is working on a school programme that was the programme and the present and the future and unfortunately, now the ignorant have come and those who are working to harm our children and our citizens have come. What is offered in college education. It's offered not to educate our children. And where the comrades sent their children, they sent them to America, England, Germany, Paris, there are their children. Where'd they get the money? I wondered in the previous government, and now I wonder, those who send children abroad, where they get money from, until our citizen survives. What are the students expecting? He's expecting an economic rent. What does that mean? That means non-schooling, because it's going to be about 6,000, and the average salary is 9,000, so let's see who gets their kids to school. It's not the goal of this government to educate our youth. The goal of this government is to provide their children abroad in colleges, and our children to stay as little schooled as possible, because they do not meet some requirements abroad. We don't have Mr. Zivkovic here, I'm giving him a question. I am interested in information on how many foreign advisers there are with Mr. Defence Minister, how many up and English generals, what their role is and what branches the Yugoslav Army will come to, whether it will be smaller than the Kosovo Protection Corps and whether Serbia's defences will be disabled. I'm here looking, as an MP, for the answer to be given to me, so let him ask the government of others. We've heard about farming a nice story, so it says, it's advanced agriculture, you see, we've raised the level of agricultural production. From where? Where do they see it? No agricultural production, no investment. This agriculture ministry in the Serbian government destroyed two large agricultural institutes, which produced seed wheat and corn and other seed products that covered our needs and could be sown. What's going on last fall? This is what happens: The government has given us 50 kilos of wheat, and there's nowhere else to get it, so let's just ask the government to make a prescription on how to sow a hectare of the land with 50 kilos of wheat. Maybe it'll be family to starve next year. We don't want to starve, we want the farmer to produce. What you gave some cheap oil, it's a shame, that oil you could free the tax and give the peasants to produce. What about imports of meat, whose dealers are, while the pig is our 35 dinars, imports of Matijević or what is already called from Novi Sad, meat that is outside of category, out of quality. Who gave him permission to import? This power has allowed, it bears responsibility. Who feeds on that food from the imports? Our children in student homes, our children in the Yugoslav People's Army or now to tell the Army of Serbia-Montenegro. Our youth eats what would not be offered, I asked one moment, from the Požega Požega... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34313	National MP, please, if you do not have the exact information to give bad food in youth and student homes or in the Serbia-Montenegro Army, you do not disturb the public, because it is the speaker of the National Assembly, where it is always spoken of by an influence man. So either you have information that one of the state authorities is supplying bad food to the youth and the army, or I ask you to carefully measure the words you say for the congregation speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34314	We want the health care to work. You've offered salaries to top experts of 15 grand, 16 grand, who are treating, and you've given salaries to those who need to protect you or defend you, I have nothing against judges, over 30 or 40 grand, so is such a specialist with five, six years at the Clinical Center who saves lives an important factor of this society. And the government says there's no money. What about the drugs? You cut the list of drugs to 120, you claim that the drugs are in the pharmacy, and I'll bring you my prescriptions, where I personally went to look for myself from that 120 list, and I didn't find them. So, let's not fool around, we've cut the list from 400 to 120, there were no medications then, so we understand each other, but don't be wrong now. Furthermore, you are asking for a 30% reduction in health care, to go to the streets; in school, in the first version it was 30%, and it was reduced to 13%. Whom shall we fire, of 100 workers, 13 teachers on the street, because someone has assessed, specifically, the finance minister. I'd like to see Djelic at school, save it, I'm not a manager, but I have to defend from what's not right, to come, that he and I sit down and calculate 13%, that he shows me, I'll give him the qualification structure of the school I'm in and show me which 13 to fire. No layoffs, no raising the standard, wants education to live and do what's right. We're grateful that wages are regular. I want to separate what's true. Where do we get our education? We're forcing him to let education not be ours. I'm not going to talk about that bumblebee, that's what I said to the Minister of Education on the Committee, so most of all, we're going to present our figures of history, how we're going to get St. Sava, the cartoonist, not let it work with our saints, our scientists. You won't do it, we'll change, there'll be forces who think they'll do what's best in this country. Since Minister Vlahovic came here, let's go to Agro Semen, to Sremska Mitrovica, to see those 20, some private agencies that beat people up, so let's see ministers, you said that whoever's in jail couldn't buy property. There's some Igo Sabo, so there's a Djermanovic, so there's some Antun Kaic, let's see who's been in jail for three months, and who's on the run now, so are these the moral people that Agro Same bought? Yes, a court of trade in Belgrade does not do its job properly, works in favour of those who rob social property, who take wakenness. Next, so, let's see what help these people or can't help it, let's go look at the next situation, since you've come, as the Installer is, I don't know by which kind of sold, it doesn't matter from those three types, not to mention, I don't know which is true, for 260 thousand marks, if its business space is only 400 and some squares, whose price can't be below a thousand and a half marks, regardless of the obligations he had for wages and for that. Not to mention the machines, the space, where you know well about building land, goes 5% of the squares of the apartment, so that space buys that company that took "Installer" from Sremska Mitrovica, I'm saying everything from my field down there, because there's chaos down there, and nothing works, chaos, chaos. Where we're going with the fired workers in Sremska Mitrovica, where, I want to tell you that when the "Grifts" got fired, so it's privatized by some stock sale, I don't know what kind, there's a man out of work, and he stays in Sava alone, he doesn't see a way out. It's a privatization that leaves workers on the street, because believe me, a large number of people don't see their way out. Let's make sure that we sell that in Sremska Mitrovica they're small, let's make them private enterprises, let them work, let the worker see the possibilities to work, and not to talk about "Cemon", you probably don't have the blame, but in the old government, it's also the fault of certain thugs who are with you now, but we'll come and take it away, be safe. It's a wooden combination, it's a gentleman, as it's already called, Jankovic or Cepter, but not in the present time, but through false accounts, he came up with huge assets and fired workers who didn't even work today. Mitrovica had 25,000 workers, an industrial city, an agricultural city, a city with 15 thousand primary and secondary schools, a city of perspective, don't close factories, return the dignity of the city where I live and return dignity to agriculture and the whole of Srem. Luck is the future of both Serbia and Vojvodina, it is an area that we must preserve, but we cannot without seed wheat. We can't, there's still time, you can get it, but buy the wheat from our peasants, it's in the barns, you buy 13, 14 dinars, you can buy it from Hungary for 12 dinars, so our peasant will benefit, our farmer will be able to sow a new crop. Next, let the fertilizer be produced in this country, give it "Zorka" Shabac, let Pančevo go with production, because our fertilizer was more artificially quality than any imported, and what did you do? I know the drive's out of date, but it could have produced a cheaper price, but it was given to the one who defected from the party where I was with you, so you covered for Vojvodina, that he was importing, so some candidates now became agriculture experts. I don't mean the current minister, to fence myself immediately. All he's looking at could be the minister trying to get a new one, whatever he wanted, but without the Serbian Parliament and the expressed agricultural policy, there's no perspective for a peasant. If you couldn't do anything else, why didn't you open the border to Republika Srpska, so people sell pigs, not to import meat and reduce prices below some real and decent price, which is about two marks, with a regular payment. We were afraid, so we blocked Drina with giant units and closed hermetically so no pig could escape there. What are we going to do now that there's not one day in this Serbia, enough pigs, closed stables, not enough bulls, not all that. We're gonna shut down all the stables and what are we gonna do? Let's import it. You know what kind of meat is imported? When you process it, and if you need it, I'll tell you about the French chickens that came in, when you process it, it loses everything. The bacteriology is correct, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34315	People's MP, the time has elapsed which is at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34316	So I'm looking for a return of workers, property. We don't let the money go to Novi Sad. We want the money in Sremska Mitrovica, which belongs to Srem, so we will have, not another bureaucracy at the level of Vojvodina. That's the thing. Give us back the money from the factory, to the ones we've been building.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34317	National MP Vladimir Garcevic used all the time available to the SNS parliamentary group and expected to complete his exhibition and a few minutes above that time, but that will be the case with each parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, so the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34318	Ladies and gentlemen, I would be much happier if I were able to speak affirmably here from this pay phone about the results of any government of the Republic of Serbia, including this DOS government. However, the reality is that the depth of the crisis in which our society is now located after three years of DOS rule obliges me and all of us to protect the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, as well as the countries in which we live, some combination of the state union, the real union or what Serbia-Montenegro needs to take a critical look at the negative phenomena recorded over the past three years. However, in order for this debate not only to come down to mistrust with the government, we need to be realistic and say that mistrust is not only worth the government. Distrust also deserves this assembly of parliament, mistrust deserves the entire DOS regime at all levels, which, thanks to its disastrous policy, has brought our society in almost three years, I say, an unexplainable situation. In the interpretation of my attitude, I will try to be as clear as I can in my intention and in my desire to be as understanding as possible to those who do not want to understand the essence. I hope that's what I can do. The people of Serbia voted in the 2000 elections for DOS. Today, three years later, the people of Serbia are aware that he was wrong. Under economic pressures that were still constant at the time, as they are now, our economy has been exposed to great pressures due to sanctions, difficult business, bombed, etc., but all the facts that have contributed to this government, DOS, have not been exploited. We today, unfortunately, after three years of taking down sanctions, opening up great opportunities, have not a double but a three-fold worse situation than it was in 2000. That's also what some technical data are talking about. Exports in Serbia amounted to $200m per month in 2003, while imports are at the same time $600m per month, which could lead to an external trade deficit of nearly $5 billion at the end of the year. Gentlemen, we're not in a situation or we're not so rich that we can afford to spend so much and make very little money. Also, when we get back to the situation that was in 2000, the people wanted to live better. You promised that, you made extremely optimistic statements that the standard of living would grow, that it would raise honey and milk with Serbia. Unfortunately, the people believed, however, we in Pirot had a fact or situation that since 1997 we have been in power of the coalition "Together", which promised it for a full four years, and for four years only complained that the previous government had left the wasteland. Unfortunately for the people and for the citizens of Piroth and for the people of Serbia, after your government, the situation is much worse. I say it again, unfortunately. In 1996 they worked "Tiger" and "May 1st" in Pirot. Sir, you have Mr Tomislav Panajotovic, so ask him if he is. You had an economy that managed to cope with the difficulties that were at the time on our economic or political scene. Today in Pirot, after this privatisation and all the God-given recipes from abroad that you have applied, it only works "Tiger", and the reminders for this "Tiger" are privatized by the previous model of property transformation and today successfully resists all pressures, all the troubles and all the unfavourable winds that blow on Serbia's economic scene. To make a comparison, and the Pyrocans know it very well, when you start an industrial area of Pirota, so other than "Tigger" none, but not one company does: "May 1st" is choking, and those companies that are privatized by this model of privatisation, I would be really happy and happy to say that they work, die. And that's also the dissatisfaction of workers in these companies, who are either on unpaid leave, receive no salary, or see no prospects for further work. Again, if there was any reason to praise it, I would have commended it, however, and last night I tried to think of a positive example from my community, which is about some better conditions and some improvement in that economic sphere. Unfortunately, I couldn't remember, except that you bought Telecom for four times the amount of which it was sold. So one aspect why this government needs to fall is the failure of pre-election promises about economic and social status, and of course of business. You lied that the situation would be better. The situation is much worse, extremely worse, and this was made very clear by the protests that were here about a week ago outside the parliament building. Next, you say $1.4 billion privatisation was obtained in 2003. All right, but you sold almost 1,000 companies. The previous government, either the Republic of Serbia or the state of Serbia, is by selling one company, I'm not talking about who was then in power, making a billion and five hundred million dollars. About the company and from these funds, production was financed in many other companies, including "May 1st" from Pirot, which was then put on its feet and which is now starting to produce. But today you're praising yourself for providing some kind of investment fund, and all the companies that have addressed the Development Fund, hoping to get loans, today don't have the opportunity to make these loans real. On this, despite all the kindness encountered by the employees of the Development Fund, which is an honor, there is always a little problem that blocks the taking of these loans. If the bank doesn't want to give a guarantee, somehow something's wrong, but it's not the government's fault, it's someone else's fault. Gentlemen, it's your fault that you didn't create a political and economic environment in which companies could seek perspective and improvement. Also, I have to say that a large number of workers lost their jobs because of the government's economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34319	I ask the People's MP, Hranislav Peric, to stop throwing and give him a warning to throw out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34320	I hope you'll respect the 30 seconds I've lost for the intrusion. Thank you very much. To be more specific, in 1996 we had promises in Pirot when the Democrats or the quasi-democratic option came to power, far away in 1996, that foreign donations would be so much that foreign donations would budge and we wouldn't know what to do with the money. Well, well, in 2003. ) The same story was repeated in 2000, and we have a report by the Committee on Development of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, a more accurate report on the work of the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, which said to have obtained 4,150,000 euros for projects, realised 2,200,000, but we have one interesting thing that will be much clearer for the citizens of Piroth. Under the explanation of the Energy Sector, where 474m euros arrived, one of the most significant realisations is the EU's energy project for democracy. There are around 474 million, I say, but is that aid to the citizens of this country, is that aid to the DOS regime? The answer is very clear and is known to all those who have been able to be so - called users of this assistance in their cities. The aid is directed to the DOS regime, as citizens have not felt any profit or any relief, nor any reduction in the oil heating bill that came with this donation. I will briefly mention only, the same report says that many funds have also been spent on imports of electricity, but electricity is said to have been imported from the EU, Germany and the United States. As an under-experienced man, I'm not quite sure that electricity can be transferred by wireless means, since I still don't know that the wire has been transferred across the Atlantic Ocean or in suitcases, by plane or by ships, by submarines, so I also asked Mr Naumov, former president of Serbia's Management Board, as possible. Unfortunately, he couldn't give me an answer. So you beat Nikola Tesla who imagined to find some way to realize the wireless transmission of electricity. Also, I have to say that, when I have already mentioned the EPS, one of the great reasons for dissatisfaction with the work of this government is a large, excessive price of electricity, which represents a really great burden for both producers and production, let alone for citizens who at this point are either under great temptation to lose their jobs or cannot put an end to the end, but the six times the electricity price for which this government is responsible is really too high. Also, I have to point out one thing that is very important because of the time limit. In short, you gentlemen have trampled the basic principles of democratic action, the basic principles of democracy and the fundamental principles of the rule of law. In fact, we now have Minister Mihajlovic who says - well, someone can't find me guilty until I'm convicted with justice. Of course, that's the principle and assumption of jurisdiction. It must be true for everyone, but that same minister and this same government have fallen into a trap they themselves set for someone else. So, this system that they created that anyone can be charged with being a cop, which is from any other authority for anything, and there's no evidence of that, comes back to you as a boomerang. What is most important is that this government is responsible for trampling the Constitution and the specific provisions of Article 47(2), which prohibits the extradition of any citizen and any citizen of this country. You have broken that obligation, and you have thus given up the sovereignty of this country. Not that you delivered former president of the Republic of Serbia and SRJ Slobodan Milosevic, but any soldier, ordinary man, worker, farmer, you would be responsible and you are responsible for what you did. Unfortunately, the government seems to want to continue with this policy, and therefore this DOS regime must fall. I wouldn't want to waste my words around the parliamentary crisis, just to remember what was eclading here in this House, and that's stealing votes. Perhaps all this would have fallen into the water that I've been saying so far, if one of you gentlemen could explain to me where Mrs Neda Arneric is today, the decoration of this parliament, as someone from the DOS parliamentary group has spoken. Why isn't Mrs Neda Arneric coming to the Assembly today? Also, can one of you explain to me that Mr. Dragan Rafaelovic is either unaccountable or reduced, so he says he wasn't here and that you counted his vote in the vote for Kori Udovicki. Then, please explain to me why the SPS has not been issued today with a vote on the logs, when in the tenth second of the vote on that record my card and my vote has been cancelled and why until today I can't find out if I voted against that record? Gentlemen, these are the eclectic examples of your abuses and thus deepening the political crisis. The attitude to justice, according to the will of the people in local self-government, has proved countless times by introducing temporary measures into many cities. Among other things, you have annulled the people's will in the White Palanca, and now in Piroth, in a very disputable way, not to respect the will of the people, but to maintain power. However, in this re-election on November 16th in Pirot, you will have the opportunity to face reality. Whoever wins, let the people say, but what you did in Pirot really deserves an assessment of what you're going to get, I mean in double terms of what you got in Turkey. So let's wait for the results, not to talk about the Ministry of Justice or the state of justice, but I can talk about it for hours. I really need to cut my exposure short out of respect for my colleagues. Let me just say, by coming to power, and this is a pre-election campaign, you're right and you're doing it, we'll do the same, and by coming to power, they'll answer all the problems that have arisen in this country and the SPS has a way to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34321	The word has a minister in the government, Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic, MP Milan Radulovic, and Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zarko Korac, and Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34322	Since we are witnessing that some MPs can't remember, in addition to hard day and night thinking, good examples of privatisation, here I'm going to try to give a few examples right now. More specifically, all the privatisations that occurred in that place. So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to give you a concrete right to the replica, and I'm really interested in what you're going to say, and you're lying to the public. First, the Pirot Refrigerator, the Future Refrigerator, Agrostochart, Autotransport, Pirotsuko, Progress, these are examples that work more successfully today than they did before privatisation. It's true, two other companies are privatized. One is "Graph," and another about ten days or five or six days ago. Unlike you, where everything is secret, everything here is public and at any moment you can get information. The Pirot equipment was privatized on October 30th, in Grafi there are still problems, and the equipment is still early to speak about the outcome of privatisation, because it was privatized six days ago. Therefore, if I remember, which I am from Belgrade, I'm surprised that you don't remember, who you are from Piroth, and day and night think about good examples. These are good examples for you. "First May", which you left behind, by not working in 2000, with huge problems, with no trade capital, no investment, "First May" is ready for privatisation today and we have a clear interest shown by the strategic partners from Belgium, from Slovenia, and I expect a successful completion of the privatisation. Fortunately, the workers of First May know who of us here is telling the truth and know how much money the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined from the budget for "First May" Pirot to get him out of the crisis that you pushed him into. As far as you're concerned, the only successful company, which isn't true, it's a Pirot Tiger, it's true it's a success, but it's not the only successful company. The Pirot Tiger was privatized according to the previous model, but he realized that his only way of future development was to connect with his strategic partner. As you know, a year and a half ago, based on an investment made by the International Bank of Finance, which belongs to the World Bank, it connects itself with "Mischel" and today has much more exports, which are made in French and other European Union markets than it had before. What's very important to say is that since the DOS has formed a government, there are private entrepreneurs who have given them space to develop their activities, which I hope you have, at least in private businesses, better data. As far as Agrosemen is concerned, since I am here to answer, I have come to realize that it is the duty of the Minister and the Government to respond to all your objections, to give you information on all your semi-censorships, to come out with facts, because of you and for the public: Agroseme is in the process of breaking the contract. The termination of the contract was initiated by the Privatisation Agency for breach of clause 714 of the contract. So I'm glad you mentioned that example. There's a contract termination procedure in place right now. As for the Installer, it's privatized, now I'm going to tell you exactly when and who the buyer is. "DZIP Installer" Sremska Mitrovica, 21 July 2003, customer Ljubisa Cirkovic from Sremska Mitrovica, at a public auction, which you could follow. If you haven't been able to go there, then turn on the TV and see how public auctions are going. (Vladimir Garcevic, from the place: You can say the price. I'll tell you the price. You said it was 230, it's good that you reminded me, but here I can spend a month explaining that the value is the result of the company's profitability. If you say the company has a super building, and you don't say what it's supposed to be, I'm sorry, it's like buying a car and taking a five thousand-mark commitment to get it back, and then somebody asks you -- because you didn't pay the south five thousand marks, you already bought it for one dinar. This is the point of the story, that the value depends on the profit capacity and on the height of the liability found. As for the reportedly ruined economy in Sremska Mitrovica thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, firstly to say that you are partly right. It is ruined, but not thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, but thanks to what was done in the 1990s. I'll remind you of what you did in the 1990s. To have enough roto paper to print your "Politika" paper, to give it to the citizens for free and to tell some truth in that list, not what is really in Serbia, you nationalized "Matroz" in 1994. From 1994 to today, the Matroza debt has increased to 120m euros. You ruined that company's future. What are we doing today? We're at the end of the Matroza tender process today where, thanks to the financial restructuring of the debts you've made, we're going after you and cleaning up everything that you left behind, all that garbage during your reign. Thanks to just financial restructuring, we have a chance today for the company to be bought by a strategic partner. Unfortunately, the price for taxpayers you put out in the 1990s, which we are paying today, is multiplely higher than that figure. Yesterday, I explained to you the case of Mitross. Those sad women who show up in some daily newspaper for three bumps, I told you that all the unions, along with the management, sent a letter to the Agency and the Ministry and told them - we don't care what the company's price is, we want the company to work and we can receive the salaries, because they've reached the executive debt solutions where they've been tattooed into objects. The company will be sold out, and yet we insist, systematically and pedantically hold negotiations with one buyer. When we've finished these negotiations, you'll be surprised to hear how successful it will be for the state. That's the second example you mentioned. Since I'm going to be here all the time, I'm going to be glad that you're giving new and new examples in the future, because I'm going to be able to get out of this place, to give the public accurate and accurate information, not the false and the facts that you bring out.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34323	Ladies and gentlemen, the best judgment on who's right will bring the people. Call the elections as soon as possible, warn this political and economic crisis that has prevailed over Serbia following DOS authorities, and it will all be clearer. So that's the only answer. I don't want to argue with you or convince myself. (Alexander Vlahovic, from the place: Give the facts. ) The facts are as follows: the only company that works well today in Pirot and successfully is a pyrotic Tiger, privatized by the model of property transformation that predicted that factories belong to those who built them. The owners of "Tigger" are his employees. The owners of the company you listed, which are privatized by this system, are brave young and entrepreneurial people. Unfortunately, we may not or may not know the origins of their capital and their assets, but it's an honor for them to be caught in an adventure called buying a company in a very difficult economic environment that you created. So, what is this economic environment? You've liberalized the market, you've liberalized and importing paper for the paper, which has led to special difficulties. You have liberalized imports of chemical products, so "Suko" today has no opportunity to place its products on our market, which is also privatized by your system. These problems created such an environment that he can't work. Now brave people, who have entered an adventure called buying businesses, simply can't realize what they bought them for, because you created the ambience that they can't work. At dumped prices you have imported tires in Serbia today, including the Tiger, because of such problems, due to the absolute liberalisation of the market. You have a lot of products. You are a member of the DS, so ask some of your members how "Tiger" survives today on the domestic market. Fortunately, and God forbid there are more experts than there are in the Tiger, but what you mentioned, I have to add one negative example from the Pyrot County, not the Pyrot. A small Methalac company from Dimitrovgrad was sold. Maybe it wouldn't be worse to ask where the metal owner is right now. (Alexander Vlahovic from the post: You tell me. I'm not going to tell you, I didn't come here to teach you, but I came to say that this government is working badly, and you'll soon have a deadline of one year when you'll have to review that privatisation, so you'll be able to check the state of these companies you mentioned yourself. There's another firm, there's a pioneer, so this pioneer to produce from Piroth... The pioneer company, by your law, bought a man... Whether I'm a master or you, we'll see, but it doesn't matter. Your data's bad. What's important is that your privatisation system isn't good, that you as a government didn't create a good business environment, that you didn't do enough to exploit all those positive conditions and chances that were created after the sanctions were lifted, and I'll remind you, only the external sanctions wall was removed in 1995, so there was an improvement of the social product and the resuscitation of the economy due to the credits that came from the Development Fund. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. I just want to finish my thought for a little while. The May 1st was once the largest manufacturer of men's suits in Europe. He's cramping today. It's true that you're negotiating with some UFM, I don't know which, but the fact is that you've had the release of 1,000 workers from the "May 1st" job, the fact is that this "May 1st" has debts to public local companies, has debts to all businesses, and the fact is that you're not capable of not only "May 1st", but you put all the companies in Pirot on sound grounds. But let the people judge what we say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34324	The Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Koraq, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34325	I must congratulate the Pirot MP, that the disastrous economic situation that all citizens of this country are aware of has shown as an unprecedented economic success and then came this power that has ruined it and the citizens are of course looming. In one of you, I agree with you, there are 16 local elections in Piroth. We will indeed wait for the power of the people, the people who have now watched and listened, your fellow citizens will assess it in the local elections and we will see the results of these elections very quickly. What's for sure is that they'll certainly have a chance to give their vote for what they think, at least at a local level, it's worth supporting, which brings them to some future and opens up some hopes and perspectives to them. As for May 1st, I'm going to say, since I'm in business, nothing more than this, this country and this government have made a huge effort to put Pirot on his feet. And it is really not right for this government to be transferred that it has not tried to help "May 1st" Pirot because of the economic situation in the region of Serbia, because of the fact that he is the backbone of economic development. There's a company in Serbia, there's a factory where someone could really get up here and say the state, or the government didn't do enough. I'd accept that, but "May 1st" Pirot doesn't belong to such companies, and because he's in one area where the economic situation really isn't the best, the government systematically and consciously gave huge loans to "May 1st" Pirot, to put him on his feet. It's not fair, really, that you're accusing us here. Compared to "May 1st," Pirot, we're not responsible, but I think we're also getting some commendation. (Dragan Todorovic throws out of place.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34326	You no longer have the right to a replica. National MP Vladimir Garčević. You spoke twice as much as I thought. I think that's enough for you. You didn't mention it directly. Here you are, MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34327	For the sake of the citizens I live with, you made me tell you about Mitros. I'd like to say here the following -- in 2000, the inherited state. That would be very fair. So that's it, so I'll tell you about "The Cello." I want to tell the truth: In 2000, the inherited state, Mitros didn't owe. So you brought your director's crisis staff who was trained in some schools in Belgrade, then went to a specialization, and I'll finally say the following, so you brought in Kuzminc, the director who organized the strikes with the union. Why? Because it went down to destroying Mitros. I'm telling you, these are your members, your party, and your party is a member and a gentleman from Zemun. Don't make me tell another story. So the second story, "Mitross" was purposely destroyed to get into this situation. I'll look for the data, I've got options. I wanted to point to the execution of crisis headquarters, no matter who they are. I'll tell you the truth about Cellulose. I don't want to run. I haven't discussed it, but I'll tell you. So, about the Mitros, I think we take the condition that was inherited and see what they've done from the Democratic Party personnel that are there in crisis headquarters. That's true. Second, around Cellulose. Cellulose was squirming all the time, squirming back in the 1990s, squirming later. She had problems all the time, but the funds that had been spent away from the contributions and the rest, where 2,500 people were employed, left as many debts, as many good sides, to buy goods from these people in Mitrovica, to survive etc. So the state was constantly subsidizing Cellulose. I'm not saying the price of paper isn't frozen what you're talking about. That's where we'll agree. You offered to fire nine hundred and some workers, right? Let's see if we follow. Your chairman of the board of directors is harassing the workers, and he's here in the Assembly, I didn't know he was here, acting incorrectly. I've kept my mouth shut so far. So you didn't manage to bring in 900 workers, you did manage to bring in about 600. Cellulose is a cancer wound because there's no raw material. He's in charge, and probably when we're down from 2,500, maybe 800 that's gonna be hard to work. There are useful drives, and I know what they want to buy. They want to buy a paper drive, a printing press that is modern, which can print for all Serbia's needs. It's not like I'm not familiar, I live in my town, and I think I know him. I can't get all the data, but I know the problem. However... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... The installer bought cirkovic, I'll ask him tomorrow. I didn't know who bought it. I'll ask him where he got the money. They're gonna have to make bills in Mitrovica, see where the money came from. On the other hand, I pointed out "ventilation." Why the valves? I pointed out what the man who bought it owed to the valve factory and couldn't show up as a buyer. Next, it's sold... (President: I warn you of time overruns, fifth minute. )......................................................................................................... The rich guy from Ruma, whose helicopter might have crashed when they died, so this country didn't publish the one whose helicopter it was to buy, not to tell whom, this drive, in competition, etc., so he fired the workers. Their salary is lower today, and the demand for production is higher. Now you tell me that privatisation is good too. But now I'm going to tell the truth, it's wrong of my former leadership that this guy got rich in Ruma, because he had to tax him, so he wouldn't let him get rich. That's true. I was against it back then, and now I'm against what's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34328	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34329	Dear fellow Members of the People, I came out to point out on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 97, by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Micic. Namely, counterpart Dragan Todorovic's discussion sparked reactions both by Mr. Minister and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. He went out to replicate Mr. Secretary and tell him how much he spoke. If he spoke longer than the Rules of Procedure, then you should have warned him, which you did, if he spoke further, you should have punished him, but it cannot serve as a basis for not giving him the right to answer Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Koraq, to what he said about the situation in Piroth and the claim by fellow MP Dragan Todorovic. Please apply the Rules of Procedure. Don't act like a DOS spokesman here. Yesterday afternoon, at the end of the session, you used an expression to complete the work of yesterday's session, and at the beginning of today, you said - Mr. Vlahovic will present a program tomorrow, a name, but rather what it is, in relation to the period of darkness during which it was before. Please, if you want to give your assessment of the situation that was two years ago, please, there's a pay phone here, go out and say, say everything you think you need, but go out to the pay phone and tell the MPs, and tell Serbia. Do not interpret the presentation of MPs and allow colleagues, Dragan Todorovic, to be given the right to speak according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34330	The MP cannot get the right to reply because Article 97 says the decision in the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 relating to the right of replicas is made by the President of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly estimated he had no basis for replication, the second time, of MP Dragan Todorovic. If you are not satisfied, the Management Board will give you an answer. We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word has a People's MP Milan Radulovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34331	The honourable MPs, after the completion of this several-day session, are exhausted, and according to the number of MPs present in the hall and exhausting debates, the National Assembly of Serbia will have to make one politically very responsible decision. We probably agree that for each National Assembly, the most responsible political moment is when it chooses one government and solves that government. The Prime Minister we're talking about these days has placed a rather handsome political reach on the work of his cabinet. He said -- the government elected by Serbia's democratic forces in 2001 has been given a mandate to change, not to rule. Okay, let's not go into little logical contradictions in that statement right now, but take it very seriously and see if the government didn't rule, what it did, and how it changed. This is what we are discussing in this congregation these days. As you have seen today, special attention has been paid to the economic and economic sectors; there have indeed been some changes. What are these changes, whether they are better, whether they are worse, whether they are obviously good, whether their ultimate outcome is uncertain, or what the ultimate result of the changes being made, is that, as we are informed, slow and economic experts, even economists who are close to the government are disputed. I will put aside that question and pay your attention to one other segment of change in Serbia. In 2001, the government received a mandate, as I understand it, primarily to change the political system in Serbia. A change in the political system in Serbia was necessary for at least two reasons. The first is because the political system built in the last decade of the 20th century in Serbia has brought the state into dissent with the civilization flows and the environment. Others, because citizens have shown mistrust in the elections to the political system. How much is it and how has it been done to change political order in Serbia since 2001? What's obvious is the change, the people who run the state policy have changed. New people are here. Political rhetoric has changed, political ideas have changed, political orientation has changed as much as the government elected in 2001 and this assembly - the next vote and the people's wish, and all this has been expressed in the 2000 elections - declared pro-European political orientation. The pro-European political orientation was indeed the citizens' wish in 2000, and that is what it is today. But did the change of people themselves and the change of political rhetoric, the change of political ideas, and the political orientation of the state, make any changes to the political system? In my deep confidence and in the opinion of many citizens in Serbia, I would say even the majority of citizens in Serbia, the political system in Serbia has not changed. If today we are trying to define the political arrangement in which we live, then the shortest we can call a degenerated and chaotic party system. The chaos so much as that ethics that held a one-party system in a period of communism, in the early 1990s, was declared invalid, so one arbitrary freedom for political leaders was allowed; and the party because all the time in the last decade of the 20th century there was a vague difference between the party, the ruling party, the state and the people. From 1990 to 2000 and from 2000 to 2003, we failed to realize that the multiparty system is not the same as a democratic society; we have not been able to understand that there is something of state interest and that the state as an entity stands above each and every party, even above the ruling party, whether it is one, whether it is 18 or 27. The party system has been working for the last three years, and not just by momentum, which could be understood. In the last three years, the party system has been tried to revitalise itself. I'm saying this with a slight disappointment, but not with a surprise. I realized in late 2001 that the government had more guidance and that it was ideologically ambivalent, but that one of its aspirations was to restore the party state. Here's an example of how the party state worked. The DOS presidency, and I think the government's college, existed at this time as a centre of political power, a centre where some power is collected to manage society and state beyond institutions. The DOS presidency and the government's college were above the Assembly and were above the president of the state, above the Constitution and the Constitutional Court. It is not good that such centres of power remain and that they make political decisions, and then ask the institutions to implement their political decisions. That was the case, for example, the political decision on whether or not we will have a president, when we will have presidential elections, and if it is clear that since 2000 we have no president, because Milutinovic could not, for known reasons, perform the post, but all of these powers were carried out by the Prime Minister. It is such a decision whether we will have a Constitutional Court or not, whether decisions of the Constitutional Court will be interpreted in one way or another, whether they will be implemented; it is a political decision whether the assembly will change by seizing, or by returning the mandate, etc. All these are political decisions taken outside the institutions, made in the centres of political power, and the institutions were used to implement these decisions. Let us take a small example of how the party state in Serbia works. When DOS took over in 2001, he used to replace the personnel that were placed by the people of the previous regime. There were nearly some additional elections in a Serbian city of 80,000 people, and these additional elections resulted in the return of the old coalition to power, and they replaced 176 people in one day and set up new ones. If the government in one city of 50,000 people has the power to place so many people, then it tells us that in Serbia politics and politicians have too much influence on government. That's why we don't have a responsible administration or an expert, because people are usually set up not by knowledge and ability but by loyalty to the parties. Too many influences have policies, and not just in the economy, which I'll say something about later. Politics and political parties and political power centres have an unbearably high degree of influence on government, on governance of common goods and on public affairs management. Here's another little example. The other day, Mr. Prime Minister and one MP led a lively controversy, went out one and the other for a pay phone several times. The MP proves that a tender has been made in some public enterprise in a bad way, the prime minister proves that he did not, and then tells the MP - you were on the board of directors, it's your fault. Since the government is on the agenda, now, gentlemen, let's be a little bit on the agenda, us MPs. I put myself first on the agenda. No one can ask a logical question in this country: why the MP on the board of directors. What will the MP do on the board of directors of a public enterprise? He's there to protect the public interest. Since Serbia has many public interests, common goods, does this mean that MPs are so unemployed or so strong that they can perform five or ten functions? Do you remember, gentlemen, how we were baptized and bereaved when we learned after the 2000 elections how many people from the previous regime were by the boards of directors and when we realized that there were people who, apart from being members of the government or members of parliament, were members of ten, twelve and fifteen boards of directors? We laughed because it brought down the laws of physics. Physical law is time, and one man can't perform more than one or two functions at the same time, he can't do twelve. Then one MP from that regime said yes, but I didn't receive any money, all the money that was meant for me went to my strangers. What's the difference? For the company that gave the money there's no difference whether they went to one stranger or went to one man? Some defend themselves by -- yes, we are on boards, but we don't take money. Of course you don't take money, but as much as you're paid to manage it, which means absolutely, irresponsiblely and unprofessionally. Such boards, which are appointed by politicians of general practice - because our public affairs and public goods are not handled by experts but by politicians of general practice - such boards appointed by such bodies serve only as coverts for some decisions made by real managers, those who stand in the background. This was most expressed when it comes to the bankruptcy and privatisation of certain enterprises. Minister Vlahovic rightly said that in the previous period, so before he took power, a part of the company was privatised by the fact that social business directors had failed to do business and indirectly taught the property to private businesses. Is this process terminated or not? I don't think so. It may have been among the companies that went bankrupt there were companies that could recover, but it was of some interest that they would not be recovered but go into bankruptcy. Anyone to get him to run any company, economic logic will make him make a profit. If he was appointed by politicians, he doesn't have to follow economic logic. It can issue economic logic and governance ethics and lead a company in the wrong direction to achieve the political interest of a small group. In short, the political system in Serbia has been neglecting knowledge and ability over the past ten years and rewarding loyalty. It prevents fair and free competition, and extends protection and monopoly. This system completely breaks awareness of the general interests, breaks the feeling of human and social solidarity, and encourages and diversifies group or personal interests and practically forces a kind of cruel and very brutal egoism. I'm not going to talk about any government affairs, but I'm going to remind you of what happened to sugar. When the state got the chance to export sugar, there they could find the interest of many people, starting with those, and in the first row of those who deal with sugar beet production, and then some, excuse the expression, the sociable type remembered that he could import some sugar from abroad, and then take it out as our domestic. It's long since been discovered, and it's still being searched and questioned what happened here, and there's one simple thing that's happened, gentlemen. A degenerated party system by nature of things is corrupt and thieving, to use a folk term. He can't be different and can't work on anything but favor individual and selfish group interests. We from the Democratic Party of Serbia are mildly saddened and saddened to see the representatives of the government and representatives of the former regime top to bottom about who's more honest, who's been stealing less and more sophisticated and who's more brutal. Gentlemen, the system is in place so it has to be stolen. It is concise so that it ignores general interests and favours individual and group interests. I will not answer the question, but I will ask: why did the government, formed by the democratic forces of Serbia in 2001, not change the political system in Serbia? I'm not going to answer this question, but I'm going to say two or three sentences about the consequences that the perseverance in the old system has left in the people. The first consequence is that people have lost faith in politics, in democracy, in the possibility of improvement. In 2000, the people thought and asked for Serbia to be managed more professionally, more responsible, fairer and fairer. In 2003, Serbian citizens say -- the politicians we have are unable to achieve that goal. So, killing hope, killing the will to live, killing the will to fight, killing the will to improve is a sin when done to one man: and what a sin it is when it is done to a nation, we should not even talk about it. The second disastrous consequence of retaining the inherited political system was this. Serbia is now one step away from the plutocracy, from the government of money. Serbia is closer to plutocracy, closer to the money authorities than it has stepped towards authentic democracy. Let me remind you that the president of a parliamentary party, and a very high official in the federal state, mentioned that the assembly, us, me, you, is having some kind of capital. Did he say that by heart? Probably unfounded for nine-tenths of MPs, but he pointed to one danger. He pointed to the fact that the financial oligarchy, which in unfair competition, war profiting, has become the most brutally rich, has been tied up with new rich people, and that financial powers now show very clear political aspirations. They show clear aspirations to rule this country. It's not possible to suffer, it's not possible to allow. Gentlemen of the government, there is another very unfortunate thing that your way of ruling has left for Serbia in these three years. I'm not talking about your government as a government formed by rival parties, I'm talking about your government as the government of my country and the people to whom I belong. The government was supposed to follow a pro-European course, and it maintained a partial system. When you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, are told from the West -- you fight corruption, they don't just say -- deprive these affairs; they say -- change the system because you have a corruption system. The nature of things is corrupt. It distanced us from Europe by declaring it to Europe and not being able to work to create a democratic system, but rather retaining the inherited political system. She distanced us from Europe by accepting and wanting to declare her pro-European orientations by coming out of Europe's demands more than necessary. The members of the government, most of the MPs, we all know well that the people received with respect the way the government collaborated with The Hague. That chill rests on one simple fact. It is possible to carry out state obligations, but something that is national identity and national dignity must be defended. I'm not saying that the government has issued both national identity and national dignity, but we all remember that in the ruling structures, which are made up of several parties, for a time, the idea that Serbs are a people to be dedicated. Is anyone saying that, is that someone aware of what they're saying? How to dedicate a nation? Deprive him of his national traditions? Deprive him of faith, culture, the right to build his system on his tradition, religion and culture? It means to dedicate one people. The dedicated people cannot enter Europe because the pan-European idea rests on the fact that all nations have to build their social system on their tradition, culture and religion -- and that they harmonize those systems then. It's a pan-European idea most people understand today. It's not a pan-European idea to accept every dictatorship from Europe. They don't understand people from Europe when someone accepts their dictatorships. It's unnecessary for people to do that. Unnecessarily because it's an anti-European orientation. So the government, which was tasked with leading Serbia along a path that would bring it closer and united with Europe, failed. I'm not saying the government didn't want to do it, but I regret to say one simple fact: she wasn't able to do it. She's found herself in a completely ambitious position. She found herself in a position that, on the one hand, she was unable to create normal laws, but was waiting for someone from Europe to pass those laws. On the other hand, she found herself in a position not to be able to hear the voice of democratic forces that do not belong to the government, which belong to this people, and found herself in a position to introduce a mild kind of enlightened absoluteism instead of democracy in Serbia. Neither enlightened absoluteism, nor party system, nor degenerated partocratic system, nor epigonism, nor plutocracy, is any of this close to the European spirit; all that we have, and what threatens to stifle democracy in Serbia, is moving us all away from Europe, away from democracy. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, the DSS MPs voted for you in January 2001. We took responsibility to choose you. We are responsible for what you did. We took responsibility to control you. We've instructed you in time to lead some of your moves to the preservation of the party state. We searched and supported every democratic step of yours in time. We were responsible for controlling you. (Unlike a MP who always has the habit of throwing away when I speak, which belongs to most, who uncreatively, uninventionally, unfairly and unintelligently half-tronically supports the government. ) The government needs serious support, and serious support can also be given by criticising and pointing to mistakes, not only by semitronic bending before the government's decisions and by subjecting the Assembly and all bodies to the executive authority. Mr. Koraq, just out of the sense of responsibility we showed when we chose you, when we controlled you, only out of a sense of responsibility to the people we have to vote for your shift. By voting for your shift, we do not support the motifs whose proposal today is on the agenda; because they attack you for why you manage these corrupt systems for them, when they could do so too. We are attacking you for keeping the corruption political system in Serbia. Why don't you change it? People's MPs, let me tell you two three words in the end, even though I've spoken to you before. We are responsible, we are historically responsible to replace the government. Not only are the opposition MPs responsible, MPs who have supported the government so far are also responsible. They are responsible because it is the only way to save at least a hint of a democratic idea in Serbia. From the Kingdom of Yugoslavia to the present day, no Serbian government has fallen in the Assembly. It is time for the Assembly to show the power to change and bring down one government and thus show that, despite all these tamperings in place, wandering, retaining the old political system, opening the door to a plutocracy, making incorrect concessions to the West -- that, despite all this, the National Assembly is able to control the government, select it and replace it. It would give the citizens of Serbia a little bit of hope back. Serbian citizens, unlike politicians, believe in democracy. Unlike politicians -- someone in these ranks said the other day: democracy is dark, poverty, chaos -- Serbian citizens know that democratic society is a society of solidarity. Serbian citizens in the gene carry their patriarchal culture that rested on a feeling of solidarity, on no differences in property, on the fact that even its leaders had been dissipated and elected by it and controlled by it. The democratic gene in the Serb people is deep, democratic aspirations in the Serbian people are strong and, unfortunately, unfulfilled, 100 times today. But the political culture of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia today is above the political consciousness and political culture of politicians -- me, you. There is no right for any government, no assembly to seduce its people into irrational utopian projects, as it seems more than half a century ago. There is no government, no congregation has the right to stop the people when they choose their direction, when they know what they want, when they know where they want, they have no right to stop that choice. The Serbian people want democracy and the Serbian people are pro-European-oriented. To verify that, to prove that, elections must be called. In the election, maybe the government's efforts will get a positive assessment, maybe not. I believe he won't. It is necessary to obey the voice of the people at this time, for the people will know for themselves that they choose not him who guides them, and the people will choose him who follows him. The people have chosen their way, the people know where they will, and can no longer be seduced by the Goles Mountains; none, socialists, nor communists, nor cryptocommunists, nor protocommunists, nor self-called Democrats, can do so. Nobody.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34332	The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korac, and then the proposing representative, then the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34333	I'll try to speak to the esteemed Mr. Radulovic in the way he spoke, without any personal insults, but in the way he wanted to show it here as his political disagreement with what the government is doing. I have to say that he said a lot of words to explain one simple fact, which is that he joins the SRS action and, he says, is from other motives, but also votes for mistrust with the government. What is the essence of what we have heard today is that you have now seen in the elements a completely anti-modern political project, in which nothing else is spoken but of the people. I must tell you, Mr. Radulovic, that we are building a political system in which calling on a people, which makes sense when it comes to culture and something like that, replaces the idea that there is political pluralism within the people. We're all people here, me and you, and all these other people, but we're different politically. You say "the people have chosen and the people have said". No, Mr. Radulovic, political parties and political ideas have been competing since when Serbs became political people, and that's a long time ago. The people should be spoken of more modestly and no one can be called upon to the people. It's hard. It can only be called to those who are his political equalists, and in political pluralism, it is true, in elections in democratic conditions, that people's voices support one or the other, fortunately and very rarely, if any, to all representatives of one political party. We've defined ourselves here for pluralism. You also exposed a political concept. That political concept of barata with terms I would never use. I'd like to warn you, I assume you're doing this without some particular desire to emphasize that the word "plutocrat" was used in the '30s and you won't find it in your modern political mind. Out of respect for you, as colleagues, I'm not going to tell you honestly which political options were using the word "plutocratism" massively. I also want to tell you that in the genes of the Serbian people, as you said, there is a "patriarchal culture". I'm telling you that in the genes of this people, there is neither "patriarchal", nor "matriarchal" culture, but the people are changing, changing their cultural patterns. In other words, let's not refer to genes when we talk about political reasons. What's the point, you were talking about it, your right, as a representative of the opposition, criticizing this government's policy and you, apart from those general places about us keeping the old political system, used relatively few arguments to support it. I'll list the one you cited at the beginning of your presentation. Your key argument was so-called. Management boards. Please listen to me carefully, because I am not a member of any single board of directors. I'm talking about myself now. You can't switch control ambitions to me. I repeat, it's very easy to check, as Deputy Prime Minister, I'm not on any board of directors. I'll just say two things here. You are well aware that there are public enterprises whose founder is the Republic, which are governed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Let's get the railroad, let's get the JAT. How do you think the Republic manages if someone who is elected is not at least someone on that board? In other words, you shouldn't go into something you might not want, but it comes down to demagogy. How can the state manage if there are no representatives in those places where public enterprises are managed? Your other questions are correct - should one man be on 16 boards? You don't have to. Is that why he needs to receive compensation? You don't have to. So it should be modest, open and fair to represent the interest of the Serbian state. It would be a crime if the state had no representative in enterprises of great importance for Serbia and its citizens. In the end, just one direct question. You said political parties shouldn't do that. Did your DSS, while participating in power, have any representatives on boards? The answer is yes, but I don't blame her, unlike you, because she, while she was in power, was supposed to. Also, at a local level are representatives of your party on boards and I also do not accuse you of it as a party, because I think it is necessary. I end up, although this was supposed to be one concept of the government's criticism, it still showed, at least in the elements, something else: the concept of a different political programme. To the very end, you said several times that while you were in power, you had a control function. I must say, it's easier to control than to make decisions. It's easier to look away than to be held accountable for the decisions made. Unfortunately or fortunately, those to whom the people of the elections have entrusted with the ability to make some decisions, bear responsibility for those decisions. So, as a man, I sit in this room and look you in the eye, because it's true that this assembly has chosen me, and it's my duty to sit here in the front row and hear what the MPs who chose me think about my work, it was a will, it was true, it was false, it was even tenorous, I'm obliged to hear it. If someone from the government doesn't sit here, call those who don't sit down and don't want to hear it. I am obliged with respect to listen to every MP, and in that sense I have listened to you. This is nothing personal, I'm just answering you as someone who's taken responsibility. Of course, I take responsibility, unfortunately, to a small extent and for what I do not agree with the government or individual ministers and vice presidents, but I cannot escape at least from the part of my responsibility that I sat with them. But in addition, I think that this government, under impossible circumstances, has done something in two years to make Serbia, unlike you, closer to Europe and there are countless many facts that cannot be denied, which show this. No one said the story was finished, no one said there were no hungry in this country, no unemployed in this country, no economic crisis in this country. We just said that we were taking the first steps in one long way to make this a happy country and that it had its place to always have and was, when it was a happy time, part of modern Europe, where it is. That's all. It is my honor to have participated in this, that I sacrificed for two and a half years, as much as my humble opportunities allowed, in participating. I didn't take anything, I didn't take anything from any board of directors. Therefore, as I distinguish you as MPs and as different parties here, please, Mr. Radulovic, distinguish us also who are in the government. This is one coalition government with different people, which has nevertheless made such a great effort to bring this country closer to Europe and, in the opinion of a very large number of people, a large part or part of it. It's certain there were failures, there were mistakes, there were things you were talking about, but there's no denying that it took courage to sit in the chair and make some of the hardest decisions that were to be made. Every next government, and there will be elections soon and there will be another government, will be easier than we have, because we have made the hardest and worst decisions that should have been made in these two years. I have to tell you, regardless of this criticism, the citizens of Serbia will have a chance to assess one thing when the elections come, and I'm not afraid of that court. It's the court whether someone was willing to take responsibility, and the other one was willing to stand by and often reasonably criticise, but not take responsibility for what it was meant to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34334	The speech has a representative of the promoter, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, after MP Zarko Obradovic, then MP Milan Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard here each other's rhetorical attacks between the representatives of one and the other democratic parties, but it is not enough for someone in the name of the party to have the word "democratic" so that it absolutely means that it stands for democracy. There are parties here that are not, Mr. Vice President, for pluralism. A party that advocates, say, the Lustration Act is not for pluralism. I think we can think about it that way and figure it out. The parties that support the Law on Lustration are also not for pluralism. The parties used by other people's identification cards are also not for pluralism because they steal votes. This, Mr. Vice President, is the government in ruins, the government that is slowly but surely collapsing, the government that has no four ministers of the very important ministries, who is unable to choose them again, or to resolve any member more, and hence, it is the government in dying. How long that dying will take, it depends solely on you. You know that folk-hero only gets killed once, and cowards allow it to rot. So, cut it off already, let us, in those 10 hours, think that there are no more than eight left, say what we have, vote out what needs to be voted on, resolve the government, or reduce ourselves, although we do not force you to do so, because it will remain recorded that the Assembly has resolved you, which is much more expensive for us than for you to resign, and at the request and proposal of the SRS. That's what's important in this political and historical moment. We can take a lot of demagogy here now, on a variety of issues, to talk about. This is about how effective or inefficient this government has been in various segments. One of the questions that I am asking these days, and also because of writing in the press, is why it is now normalization of trade relations with the United States, and you don't like it -- now you don't like that I'm moving to another topic, I'm doing it on purpose, Vlahovic doesn't have, we're not going to privatise it, we've absorbed it, we've seen who steals, who doesn't steal -- after Zoran Zivkovic's statement that we're ready to send the military and the police to Afghanistan and Iraq, and Michaelovic says the same thing, the police can, it's no problem, it's cheaper for the Americans to send the Serbs back to Afghanistan and Iraq, and they're coming back in bags, we're a little bit exporting weapons from the United States, because they value their citizens and protect him because those contingents who left Croatia and Romania are back 60% in bags. That's how ours will come back. So is the interest of this country whether we go there or not, that's why we're asking to vote no confidence in this government, because it advocates our military and police going to Afghanistan and Iraq. And for the absurd to be greater, the Prime Minister says -- it will go voluntarily, no one can force anyone, and if anyone doesn't leave, they won't suffer any adverse consequences. Logic then states that there will be all those who are possibly Hague indictees, all those who went to Kosovo and Metohija to defend Serbs -- either you will go to The Hague, or you will go to Afghanistan and Iraq. That's what people are thinking, and we're just articulating what we hear from the people here, and that's why we're asking for a vote of mistrust to this government. Why are we still looking for that? Because the government failed to solve some murders, i.e. Minister Mihajlovic did not, and promised to do so too -- Milan Pantic, a journalist from Jagodina, you forgot about him, he is not interesting, because he is probably just a journalist, but Minister Mihajlovic did not work very hard on it. Then, as the purchase of equipment for the MUP went through the company "Lutra", owned by Minister Mihajlovic. Where there's a conflict of interest, that should be your answer. But we can see that these G-17 Pluss are reading the books of Vojislav Seselj in the edition of "The Great Serbia" and the SRS and that everything that is now written in the papers is actually written in those books that we used to publish here and here. You could've, if you'd read it, all of you would've met in time. Because of the staff policy that Minister Mihajlovic led in the MUP, so he allowed one Karlesha, who proved to be an art dealer and old money, and we remember that the last time he appeared in public at the arrest of Ceca Raznatovic, then he was nowhere, nor why she was arrested, nor how she was released, after which he was no longer talked about, he found himself there when he was to arrest Ceca, he probably thought there were some artistic paintings and some numismatic values that he was interested in and which he later sold abroad. Because of Kumet, your protected witness; when I say yours, I mean Minister Mihajlovic, and I mean the entire government, because he is your minister, whether he will be tried for exporting and selling weapons to Liberia, through whom it went, related to the SDPR, in which Minister Mihajlovic was then chairman of the board of directors, so let's see what all these links are. That's why we're asking for a shift, a vote of mistrust to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Because of the abductions that took place: Miskovica, then Verano Motors, you remember that. But after buying cars from Verano Motors, the question arises whether these people had to be kidnapped and then buy cars from them and who asked for a racket. In the means of public information, we could have been involved in all these affairs, I didn't list them, not even these unexplained cases of murder, kidnapping, reading all sorts of things, that all the ministers and the arrests and the announcements and the verdicts, and then when some of these ministers were sued, then the government concluded that they were protected by immunity. Here's a case: Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic sues Vojislav Seselj for slander. After a while, Vojislav Seselj sued Covic for slander and demanded that the debate be united. What's going on? The government's conclusion, it was signed by Ceda Jovanovic, whom we have not seen in parliament since the debate on this agenda began, we do not know why, leads to the conclusion that the immunity of Neboja Covic is established. The minister can't sue whoever he wants, and when he's sued, then his immunity is established. That's why we're asking for a vote of mistrust to the government, which is unable to bear all the responsibility it has. These are some of the reasons I wanted to remind you of, because I see this debate going according to one demagogue principle of anger to some who have been in the coalition in time, so they retreated from it, realizing that this coalition will not take them far, or keeping their credibility for some other time, and whether citizens will be able to recognise it or not, of course, it will be seen already in the next parliamentary elections, but these parliamentary elections have already been made quite certain. Here, from the towers, already journalists report via some means of information, cafes say, that's all they talk about, wherever you see three people standing, talk about when these parliamentary elections and just calculate whether it's December 21st or December 28th. So you absolutely know what that date is, when it's going to be and you're trying now, using this debate that shouldn't, of course, be going this way, to create some preconditions that are otherwise related to a campaign that shouldn't be happening here in parliament. The right to tell you, if we had known that the presidential elections would be called when we submitted this proposal, we wouldn't have done it, we would have gone among the people and run the campaign, and this is how you have disabled us by many, because we are largely present in parliament, all of us here, instead of going to the field. Tonight, here, we have an appointment for a television show in Nis, I have to sit here, and the presidential candidate stays uncovered, in four districts people watch me if I go on that TV show. So, if you think you're calling those elections, let the MPs go, maybe some of them will defend you, maybe even defend you. Let us finally vote and see how you did in parliament. What the people will later say in some new parliamentary elections, we will all see for the merits, but let it be true democracy then in action. Let the people say theirs, and we are only obliged to give them what they seek and what belongs to them. The full mouth of democracy means nothing, pluralism, I have proved to you, there is no such thing as many political parties, not even yours, not even this majority of yours that you've had recently, if you could pass the Lustration Act. Please, Mr. Korać, anything we haven't said here or haven't arrived, perhaps the debate won't end, 11 November at 1700 hours at a big rally in the Republic Square we'll further explain to the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34336	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, right to replica, and then MP Milan Radulovic, right to replication. The People's Councilman, Dejan Michael, reported to you the same way? No, I don't. After MP Milan Radulovic, Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic came to the floor, then MP Sredoje Mihajlov, right to replication. After this round of replicas and ministers' announcements, the floor of the motion for resolution has a People's MP, Miroslov Christodulo, following reports in search of the motion for resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34337	Dear fellow MPs, I have come forward with a replica to present my colleague Radulovic. I must say, fellow Radulovic, today is 8 November 2003 and is on the agenda of this assembly, the request, the debate... (from the hall voices are heard: today is November 6th) is not important, the SRS request for the resolution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask you, if you have arguments, to say why this government no longer needs to work and to discuss parliamentary elections, tell them in the mustache. Take it easy on us socialists, it's 2003, we're not on the agenda and you're out of the way of explaining and comparing yourself to us. If you've got something for us, here, I'm at your disposal. I understand, it is not easy for you, because it is much easier for you to speak in general with some story for a reason, because it seems the essence of the change in the political system of change is working, not for the citizens of Serbia, and it is much easier for you to explain it to the citizens of Serbia, to answer countless questions that you too are obliged to answer. Why didn't many of your political actions simply come to an end, why are you stopping halfway, why have you brought such a restrictive Rules of Procedure, which is why all of us MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are paying, why have you signed the Belgrade Declaration and so has the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia been abolished? Why did you write such a bad declaration about Kosovo and Metohija? Why did you agree to work in this assembly without media, without direct transmission, why did you accept that the Constitution was violated when Milosevic, a well-known legalist, was delivered, why did you vote for the glossy laws that you now give up and forget? Another thing, when you're taking examples, here from the bar, take the exact data. It is a Pogorec, a local self-government, and we, in respect of the election will in 2000, released, even though we had a majority then, let DOS and then the majority DSS exercise power in SO. What happened back then in public enterprises at the municipal level and in the boards of directors, it's not a cleanup, it's a wasteland. You forgot that because it was 2001. When additional local elections took place this year, the Socialists won and regained the majority in the local parliament. For two months, you delayed the appointment of the congregation, and according to some allegations, the argument was that the conditions were not respected, etc. Of course, the session was held and local government was established. Of the 15 public companies at the level of local self-government, five directors have been changed, but have remained to work in those collectives, according to the expert provision they have. Not to mention what happened to those before, around the boards of directors, absolutely this information is not true. Please, this is 2003, you're probably aware of this, the story of the political system of change is not a story that brings Serbia better. I guess the essence of the story should be... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... Do we respect the Constitution, do we respect the law, whether there is equality between citizens, whether we are doing something for Serbia's sake, whether we are doing something for Serbia's citizens' better lives. It's the basics, and that's how the government is valued, and that's how it's supposed to be attacked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34338	Four minutes. The word has the People's MP Milan Radulovic, the right to reply to the presentation of Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korac, and the MP Dejan Mihajlov, the right to reply to the presentation of MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34339	I had no intention of causing controversy with my exposure, but I feel the need to clarify some of the questions asked by Vice President Korac. In my presentation, Mr. Korać, I put out a very simple idea: that the party system is the one in which political power has strong control over systems - cultural, economic, financial flows, and that democratic order, in order to develop at all, must limit the power of politicians and politics so that other systems can breathe and live normally. In order to be able to exist in the economy of initiatives and self-initiatives, they cannot sit in companies, boards of directors, someone who has a random job and who comes or doesn't come, and someone else manages it one way or another. So the whole problem is that in these three years, politicians have been unable to set their limits and say they can't manage everything and everything. We inherited from the previous regime a system in which political oligarchy controlled all the financial flows, all the rhythms of life, and that's what couldn't stand anymore. You should've given up that system. Now you've made me slightly angry with some of your statements. I think the government felt when it was supposed to change that system -- and she theoretically knew she had to change -- like she was cutting the branch she was sitting on. Like, we'll change that, but since it's a system that's designed for privileges, a system that's made for politicians, a system that's designed for political oligarchy, and to the detriment of society, the state and the people, so we'll change it, but let's just enjoy it a little bit. That was a pretty devastating logic. Such a system has distanced us from Europe, because Europe does not understand a state that is unable to bring a constitution that has no president. He doesn't understand a state that isn't capable of fostering a business initiative, and that's why we're among the last of the economic freedoms. When politicians get their fingers involved in the economy, there's no freedom. Democracy rests on the principle of freedom, on the principle of private initiative, on the principle of citizens' rights, not pluralism of interest; and this, such democracy, which respects values, which respects individual strength, which respects virtues and who cultivates solidarity with all people, is innate to the Serbian people. I'm not going to say it's innate genetic, even though I mentioned the word "gen." But mentioning the people is no mistake, because democracy is the rule of the people. In order to know how to build a democratic order, we need to know the people, that we know his history, tradition, culture, feeling, his faith, his delusions and his strangers. If we do not respect his delusions, foreigners, but impose the truth on him, we do not build democracy but return to enlightened absoluteism. No project of enlightened Serbian absoluteism has succeeded, and it will never succeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34340	The word has a People's MP... (Milan Radulovic: Let me just say... ) Please, MP, the speaker who finishes his speech cannot approach the speaker until he has been given permission by the chairman. I know it's hard to talk and do what's said, believe me, I know best here, but still. The word has the People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, the right to reply to the presentation of MP Zarko Obradovic. National MP Slavoljub Matic is looking for a replica. I cannot give you a replica based on what MP Zarko Obradovic mentioned. The fact that MP Slavoljub Matic was the president of the Municipality of Požarec is not enough, there is no basis in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for you to receive the right to replication. Your president of the parliamentary group has the right to replicate and receive a replica. I'm sorry to keep you waiting, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34341	In 2000, we and Serbian citizens voted not against Milosevic, but against the regime and against the system of which he was an exhibit. That is the point, that we have been given the mandate to change the system, and that is what Professor Radulovic was talking about, the fact that we haven't changed the system. We have a perilous system, where the power centers and decision centres are excluded or isolated from the institutions. Milosevic moved decision centres with his post, whether it was the role of Serbian or Yugoslav president, and he based his authority on the party state and controlled the state through the party. It's a system that he used to build and build for years. Unfortunately, this system was created and continued to be used, so we came into the position that the DOS presidency is something that is above the Assembly and that the Assembly is placed in the position of execution, not only of the Assembly but of all the bodies, of what the DOS Presidency brings. We had this opportunity to see on the Constitutional Commission, where the DOS presidency prejudges the solution on the Constitutional Commission and where the Constitutional Commission is appointed as an executive part of the DOS presidency. The main problem is this, and the key problem of this government is that it has not proposed a law on conflict of interest, which is key to breaking up between the party state and the state in which the law and the institution will be respected. Mr. Radulovic was just talking about a conflict of interest, that one member of the government cannot be in five boards of directors and that MPs cannot sit on four or five boards of directors and make decisions regarding the fate of those companies in whose boards of directors are sitting. Whose interest will they represent? As employers, will they represent the interest of public enterprises or will they represent the interest of citizens, who chose them as employers in this assembly? It's a fundamental problem and that's why I'm talking about a system change, and that's why the government is the most responsible thing that hasn't changed, that we don't have a conflict of interest law. That's why we have the greatest abuses and conflicts of interest in the government itself. That's the problem we're talking about. There's no story here about this or that. We're talking about the fact that the system hasn't changed. The system is designed for political oligarchy and it is very difficult for every authority to give up its powers and this authority has not been able, this government, to give up powers in favour of citizens, in favour of the Assembly, to decentralised its power. We were talking about decentralisation, about strong local self-government. We didn't get that strong local self-government. The finance minister's answer is that all finances go into his register, that there's no decentralisation. That's what we're talking about, that the system hasn't changed. Milosevic fell as an exponent of the system and we were given the mandate to change the system. Otherwise, if we talk about the delivery of Slobodan Milosevic, the Democratic Party of Serbia, or the Serbian government ministers, were against the decision to deliver Slobodan Milosevic in this way, against constitutionally and without law. After all, we then formed a separate parliamentary club and was the only one, Obren Joksimovic, who was then in the Serbian government against it. So here we're talking about changing the system, not some other questions, and that's why the government before 5th and this government is after 5th just two persons of the same system, one medal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34342	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic. After him, the word is Wednesday's Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34343	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am pleased to be able to share with you information about what the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services has been doing for the past three years or thousands of days. Before I move on to the concrete results of what we've been doing and what we've been dealing with, I have to, although many people don't and don't like it, remind you again here and Serbian citizens of the situation we inherited in these segments and sectors. As far as trade is concerned, it is undeniable that Serbia's trade was in a catastrophic state, as since that devastating hyperinflation in 1993, which practically decapitated trade and left it with no trade capital, including all those inflations and hyperinflations that were until 2000, trade remained in a situation that it could not sustain itself. We inherited the extremely low purchasing power of the population and in some years during the 1990s it was measured with several marks then and we inherited the situation that the average purchases in the shops amounted to several dozen dinars at the time, since it was possible to buy only what was most basic for the day's survival. We inherited the subtlety of a trade operation, the extremely poor coverage of Serbia by larger and more significant trade chains. Most of them were concentrated in the largest consumer and trade centres, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, while all other Serbian cities were, unfortunately, focused on supply via small STRs, small kiosks and grey economies. We inherited the grey economy, which in some years reached 70% of Serbia's social product and was one of the general characteristics, and the good part was caused by fictitious, or false employment, which was then in Serbia. We inherited price disparities, for which many producers had to sell one part of the market at the prices that were then determined through administration, through the command economy, through various co-ordination teams and ministers. On the other hand, they had to dump certain quantities of their products on the gray market to ensure the existence of their businesses. We inherited the shortages of many products. We remember the time when we stood up in the morning at five o'clock to provide a liter of milk for children or to wait in line to buy oil - Zaytin, gasoline. We inherited a situation where at that time very important persons in our life were local salesmen or sellers, gas dealers at gas stations. That was a very sought-after profession. I remember a time when even a few hundred, and even thousands of people, reported to a gas tanker contest at Jugopetrol or Beopetrol gas stations. We had a situation where these kiosk salesmen were very important in the lives of all of us, because they allowed someone to get a liter of oil, a kilo of sugar, a liter of that fresh milk or any other product that was not in regular sales at prices that were then depressed. As far as tourism is concerned, we also inherited one situation where tourism during the 1990s was almost gone. It couldn't have been him. We had a breakdown of the more SFRY, the wars in the immediate environment, sanctions and isolation of our country, and we had a situation that the country was practically treated as an uncertain area, and the security and people in the country were threatened, let alone tourists, who might have planned to come to our country. We had years of disinvestment in the tourism economy, we had facilities where, unfortunately, they were refugees and displaced persons, we had a situation where practically foreign exchange inflows of tourism were measured with several million dollars a year during 1999 and 2000. But that's what we inherited. This can certainly be talked about long and wide, but first of all, there is an accent here on what this government is, and especially now, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services has done and done over the past three years, and I will concentrate first and foremost on it. I must point out in the beginning that this ministry has made a significant contribution, first of all, to the establishment and subsequent preservation of macroeconomic stability in the country in the price segment, cost of life, living standards and coverage of consumer baskets of average salaries and growth of average wages, to the segment of the recovery of domestic trade, its accumulation, its integration, in terms of the resuscitation of market laws and a fair match, as regards increasing the social product of trade, in terms of increasing the real volume of traffic in retail and wholesale trade. We have dozens of retail facilities of new, built, large wholesale shopping centres, then the situation that the domestic market has become attractive for foreign trade chains, the situation that we have been able to purchase in our country and in our trading companies all those products that we could not buy before democratic changes in our country, which is due to the absence of these products, which is why we have been very often going to hypermarkets in Hungary, Bulgaria and some other countries to supply. As for tourism, there have also been significant developments and results in the past three years. Our country began to change its image very quickly and very intensely and from a completely unattractive one, I would say completely unknown, forgotten tourist countries, we may have become the treasure of this part of Europe, to be revealed. Given the growth, transport and revenues of tourism, the number of arrivals of tourists and overnight tourists, today we can see that tourism has become one of the most significant foreign exchange inflow generators in our country. But if we go ahead about what happened in the trade sector over the past three years, the first thing that needs to be determined is that the real product of trade in Serbia, the social product of trade in the previous three years, has been cumulatively increased by 46.6%. About that growth was on average about 15% real year from 2000 to this year. This year we're going to have something bigger, I'd say the record growth of the social product trade in the last three years. We expect it to be over 20%, which is very indicative of the recovery of the trade sector and that it has been able to deal with competition from abroad. Simply, what happened in all Eastern European countries, where domestic trade operations were in the first few years, which was the beginning of the 1990s, practically disappeared or shrugged down to the lowest possible extent, it did not happen in Serbia. We in Serbia today, apart from domestic trade, have two foreign trade chains that started their operation in Serbia with one facility in Belgrade. These are Slovenia's Mercator, with an investment of around 40m euros, which was one time the largest investment in Serbia and the Greek chain Veropoulos, which also opened a retail facility in Belgrade. They intend to spread through Serbia, have interests and other trade chains to start their business in Serbia, say France, one of the hypermarket leaders began to build his first hypermarket in Belgrade. Interest in the local trig so far has shown, and are currently in the phase of looking for adequate locations, the German chain "Kesh End Keri", Hypermarket "Metro"; there is the German trade chain "Reve", the Italian "Cooperative" and I believe some more. However, we need to find out, and this is one of the significant results when it comes to Serbia's trade, that domestic trade has predominant participation in the domestic market, that the participation of specific foreign trade chains is somewhere around 1% in total trade in Serbia. What is heard from critics of economic policy and especially trade policy, that domestic trade has lost and that we have been flooded by foreign trade is simply not true, because indeed, I repeat, there are only two retail entities of foreign trade chains: one Mercator facility and one castle of Veropoulos. When we talk about retail traffic results, it should be said that in 2001 real growth in retail traffic was 19%. Last year, real retail growth was about 16%, and this year we expect that real growth in retail traffic in Serbia will be between 20% and 25%. Traffic growth is also recorded by wholesalers. He was somewhat lower than he was the growth of retail traffic. However, these growth rates are also significant, ranging from about 5% in 2001 and about 3% in 2002. This year we also expect a growth in wholesale traffic between 5% and 8%. All in all, we can realize that there have been absolutely positive movements in the store so far, and what is most important is that domestic producers, the domestic industry, are struggling to survive in these transition years, which are both painful and difficult, on the market. They will still have, while these policies, a place to reach consumers through domestic trade chains and thus ensure the realization and closure of one of the phases of the economic cycle. When we talk about the relationship between domestic and foreign trade chains in Serbia, it should be said that the finding that we have been flooded by foreign goods also does not stand. For several months now, we have been making analyses of the relationship between the most sold products in retail sales in Serbia and these analyses are very favourable for domestic producers, as they show that on average it is between 85% and 87% in the structure of the hundred most sold products in Serbia of domestic origin. This percentage ranged from 67%, as much as in Veropoulos, up to 95%, as in the PKK; however, really prevailing in the structure of the hundred most sold products in Serbia are products that are the result of work in our businesses and our factories. I'll be honest with you. It should be pointed out that the purchasing power, although significantly increased, is more than realistically doubled compared to 2000, such that in the structure of these 100 most sold products in our consumer baskets most often are those products that are the subject of daily purchases. These are bread, dairy products, milk, meat and meat processing, vegetables, fruits, water, and juices. However, it is very important to point out that we are also in that part of agriculture, with which we are counting and which we believe can offer a significant export product, able to deal with competition from abroad. It should be said that domestic trade chains in the past three years have practically achieved significant shifts in the fight for consumer rights and the fight for consumers in general. We are witnessing that dozens of retail facilities have been innovative, reconstructed, modernised, that some 50 new retail items have been built, which are wholesale objects in the last three years. We are also witnessing that Serbia's market today is incomparably and dramatically better covered by retail and wholesale facilities than it was by 2000. Several successful examples should be said, and not to point them out behind this speaker, primarily the leader of trade in Serbia's C market, which remains the largest and which today has a network of over 250 retail facilities. Then the Maxie, owned by the Delta, joined with the Pecabet. The Si Market trade chain, which also covers Belgrade, but also a part of southern Serbia, which was less covered, is also fighting for its place on the market. For its position on the market, with good results, the Apple trade chain in Belgrade is also struggling, however, on some of the city's surroundings and in smaller facilities, but there is progress compared to the previous period. Some of the facilities that were built throughout Serbia, such as one magnificent retail facility "Visola" from Cačka, then one really good wholesale facility that made the company "Golden Trace" in Leskovec, then "Nana" from Nis, "Impeks" from Nis, "Rodic" or "Delta". All in all, we can conclude that Serbia's trade operation recorded very good results in the past three years, that it has fought for a place on the market and that with the satisfaction of all of us as consumers, it manages to reconcile our needs, almost the same way as this larger and financially more powerful competition, which today features the "Merkator" and "Veropoulos". The ministry of trade, tourism and services took place about a year ago with the creation of a major and crucial project in Serbia's trade operation, which is the project of a strategy and a policy of trade development in the Republic of Serbia by 2010. More than 50 leading experts from the country and abroad were hired for the project in the areas of trade, markets, marketing. First of all, the leaders of the project were domestic experts, the project holder, in collaboration with the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, was the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, and the head of the entire project was a respected professor and head of the Stipe Lovret department. Today, this strategy of Serbia's trade shows us which way Serbian trade should be developed by 2010 and what it is that we need to do to make Serbian trade a leader on the domestic market and go to the foreign market and thus, by selling domestic products, contribute to the mitigation of our country's external trade deficit, but also to fully cover Serbia and the quality of all consumer centres and all citizens of Serbia provide the necessary products and services. It should be said that in each of these segments of the Serbian trade development strategy by 2010, which are drawn in the document, in that book, we can already realize today that there are positive shifts. In the part of the struggle for the domestic market, we have found that several national trade chains have been significantly improved and that domestic trade is increasingly coming together, with the aim of getting two or three or, God forbid, several national trade chains, which will be able to cope with competition from abroad for a longer period of time, but also what is very important, to get out of our country's borders and sell Serbian products. In that segment, I admit, could have been done more. We have only one example of a new exit of domestic trading companies into foreign markets, which is the exit of the C Market to the Bosnia and Herzegovina market, i.e. Republika Srpska and the opening of the first "C Market" retail facility in Banja Luka. It's an object of about three thousand square meters. It is these days that the year of business of the facility should be completed. Business results are satisfactory and open space to "C market" and continue to spread to the market of surrounding countries. When we talk about the markets in which domestic trade should appear, we are primarily thinking about the market for the surrounding countries, already mentioned in the Republic of Serbia and BiH, Croatia, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Romania and Albania. These are markets where we expect our trading companies to make a breakthrough in the next three to five years. We are ready to support them by means of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. I can tell you that these funds have already been provided for this year at some 4m to 5m euros, reserved at the Development Fund. However, despite a large number of meetings with Serbia's most significant and biggest traders, we have failed to stimulate any of them to go abroad, but we believe that this will happen in the coming years. The reason why it is, above all, lies in the fact that domestic merchants have given themselves priority to cover Serbia's market, to take positions and not to allow foreign trade chains to enter, and that after that, when they cover Serbia, they also go to other countries' markets. What favours Serbia's trade, as well as macroeconomic policy and overall economic policy in the country, is certainly the macroeconomic stability that has been established and preserved, and above all on the segment of the price and cost of life, since we are from the three-digit inflation in 2000, I will not return to that year of hyperinflation, we have managed to get to the point that the price rise for the little first nine months of this year is 5.6% and that, as it is all said and certain, this year, we will end up with a single-digit inflation that will be slightly over 8% on an annual basis. I must point out that this is one of the great macroeconomic results of economic policy. Compared to the countries of Eastern Europe, which have gone into transition since the 1990s, this result is the best, since no one has succeeded so quickly and in such a way as to curb inflation, that it is reduced to Eastern European and Central European acceptable frameworks, while ensuring economic freedom, the growth of living standards, the growth of purchasing power and a overall much better business environment and for working in the country. Of course, in addition to the inflation mentioned and the price at a small price, absolute stability also has the cost of living, since they were slightly lower in the first nine months of this year compared to the rise in prices to a small one. It is also clear that the cost of living this year will also have a single-digit growth rate. I must point out that today, not today, but in 2001, we managed to fully correct the inherited disparities of prices and, practically, for two years in Serbia, when it comes to agrarian, only the price of a product is controlled, and that is the price so-called. People's bread, produced from a type of 850 flour, with a seven-gallon loaf costing 13 dinars. All other prices in the agrarian are completely free and the success of macroeconomic policy is greater, since, after the release of the prices of all these products, the situation is such that today with our average salaries we can buy more of all these products than we could buy in 2000. I have to stop here, and on a very specific case, to give an answer to some respected MPs who spoke about living standards and purchasing power, who indeed unwarrantedly found that today could be bought less, to live worse than it was in 2000. Practically, we have, for a few selected products, extensive consumption and, for example, 30 industrial and food products, which are the subject of daily purchases, made an analysis. These analyses show that today, with average wages, it is possible to buy much more agricultural and food products and it is necessary to allocate much less average net earnings to buy a product, some more permanent consumer goods. For example, in September 2000, it was necessary to allocate 4.5 average net earnings at that time to buy one refrigerator or, for example, 3.7 average earnings to buy an electric stove or stove. Today, both refrigerators and stoves need to be allocated 1.3 net net earnings. The washing machine - it was to allocate 6.4 average September earnings from 2000 to buy it, and today it can be bought on average with 1.7 average earnings. The color TV, whether domestic, or foreign production, was to be singled out in September 2000 4.5 of the average earnings then, in order to buy one TV, and today it is necessary to single out 1.2 of the average earnings. Here's an example where this rise in purchasing power is the most obvious, and that's a national car called South Temp 55. In September 2000, it was necessary to allocate 90 average earnings at the time to buy the cheapest car on our market, namely 89.5 earnings, and today the same car can be bought with 22 average earnings. In order for this to be much clearer, since I now see the infidelity of those who do not believe in statistics and do not believe in real life, I will illustrate it by example of a more permanent consumer good, such as a refrigerator. We all know that the average price of a refrigerator, since it is mostly or very little produced in our country, was around 500 marks during those years of hyperinflation and in 2000, and about that much today costs an average refrigerator, slightly over 200 euros. The reason why this relationship in the quality of purchasing power and the number of average earnings that should have been allocated to buy that refrigerator in 2000 and today is, above all, in the fact that our average earnings are actually increased. It was increased by 2.576 dinars in September 2000, or slightly less than 40 euros, and when you put it into an account of over 200 euros, it was clear that it was then necessary to allocate over four average earnings in order to buy the refrigerator, and today with average earnings in Serbia in September 2003 of 11953 dinars or currency equivalents of around 180 euros, it is necessary to allocate a little more than 1.3 average earnings in order to buy a refrigerator. That, my gentlemen, is a direct indication that the average purchasing power in Serbia has been increased and that today we live better and we can afford more with our salaries than in 2000. It's about permanent consumer goods. Some products should also be mentioned, daily, of which we live, because the fact is that many Serbian citizens still cannot count on buying a car or a permanent product, but the situation is such that with all the products that we are following today, purchasing power is far greater than it was in September 2000. Here's an example of edible oil, which was often highlighted because of the monopoly of several producers, because that price was unwarrantedly high in some previous years. In September 2000, it was possible to buy 166 liters of edible oil with the average salary at the time. Today it is possible to buy 190 liters of edible oil. It is very clear that the rise in purchasing power is much smaller than it is in previous consumer goods, but it is also present. Such is the situation with other everyday products, such as sugar. In September 2000, with the average salary at that time, it was possible to buy, at that price, 187 kilograms of sugar; today it is possible to buy with an average salary of 278 kilograms of sugar. With the average salary available in September 2000 to buy 17 kilos of pig meat from the bones, it is now possible to buy 61kg. It was possible to buy 285 liters of cow's milk, today it is possible to buy 509 liters of cow's milk. It was possible to buy 97 liters of yogurt, today it is possible to buy 315 liters of yogurt. It was possible to buy 12 kilos of fried coffee, today it is possible to buy 52 kilograms. It was possible to buy 228 liters of acid water without a bottle, now 653 liters is possible. It was possible to buy 11 kilograms of chocolate, today it is possible to buy 26 kilograms. It was possible to buy 150 kilograms of potatoes, today it is possible to buy 468 kilograms of potatoes. This way I can go all over the list and prove by this data and show how much the purchasing power of average earnings in Serbia has increased. Of course, we don't want to say that that's enough, that the citizens of Serbia don't deserve it anymore, that it's some ceiling we should brag about and like it. This is the current state. This is the achievement of one moment. That shift that took place in the previous years was logical, it was continuous, it was jumpy, but it was happening and it would continue in the next period. When we talk about the coverage of the minimum average consumer profit basket, I'm going to mention once again the data I put out in the replica, but obviously it's not well understood, by those who criticized it and who were trying to impose some of their statistics. In September 2000, it was necessary to allocate the 2.09 average net earnings at the time to cover the minimum consumer basket of food, drinks and services. Today, to cover minimum consumer food baskets, drinks and services, less than one average net profit should be allocated, i.e. 0.9 average net earnings and that argument, the indicator by which we measure purchasing power shows that it is more than realistically doubled in the previous period. However, the minimum consumer basket is one minimum of existence and at this point there are still families in Serbia that find this minimal existence difficult to provide. We are aware of this and we are trying to help you most, and, of course, a very high-quality document has recently been done, a strategy for reducing poverty, which will certainly help in the coming period to worry more about those socially most vulnerable directions, so that they too come into a situation that their existence, their food security, their drinking, the payment of communal and all other services are not compromised. But from a year ago, precisely because of this growing standard of living in Serbia that we're talking about, we made another consumer basket. We called it the average consumer basket, and it really, by all its parameters, represents one Central European standard. I'll tell you that the value of the average consumer basket of food, drinks, services in September 2003 amounted to over 17,000 dinars, and at the average salary of 11.953 dinars, it was necessary to allocate around 1.45 average earnings in order for that average consumer basket to be covered. In September 2000, for this same consumer basket, it was necessary to single out 3.45 of the average earnings, at those prices, which says that according to this indicator, according to which we measure also the standard of living, it is actually more than doubled. Of course, what hit our citizen the most and why the average standard is not much higher than we expected, given what was happening in the agrarian sector, where despite the liberalisation of the prices of products today are lower than they were in previous years, it is primarily the fact that there has been a correction of disparity in sectors that have been brought to the brink of collapse and collapse. This is primarily the service sector, electricity, municipal services, public transport, PTT services. In the previous period, there was an expected and inevitable increase in the share of expenditure precisely for the service sector from 11.4% to 27% in the average consumer basket compared to the average profit value. But what we can figure out today is that the price disparity in these sectors doesn't have, that today these systems, from electricity to utility, through public transport, through PTT services, succeed with prices that are currently current -- these are the only prices besides one kind of bread that is controlled -- covering simple reproduction and allowing simple development in these systems to not be completely suppressed, which was the situation in the 1990s. It is precisely that price correction in the service sector that has made it impossible for the average standard of living in Serbia to increase even more, as expected, since food and goods prices are now actually reduced. When we talk about where they are when it comes to average earnings in Serbia, how much is it for citizens who can't make money to cover basic existential needs, it should be said that by September average earnings up to 7.082 dinars, up to 13.2% of workers and paid workers in Serbia. From 7,082 dinars of average net earnings to 14,165 dinars received the highest percentage of paid workers in Serbia -- about 41.6%. From 14,165 to 21,248 dinars is also a significant percentage - 34.6% of employees and paid workers in Serbia. And what we particularly want to boast about is that 10.5% of employees and paid workers in Serbia in September 2003 had an average net earnings of more than 21.248 dinars. This says practically that the transition process in some companies has been successfully completed, that today Serbia has concrete development locomotives, that there are companies that pay over 30-40,000 dinars for their average earnings, and that simply that train of Serbia towards Europe has more and more secure locomotives to draw it. Of course, we are also aware that, when we talk about average earnings, there is a big difference between the lowest and highest average earnings in certain months. In the past few months, the lowest average net earnings, which ranged from an average of 34,000 dinars, which is not enough for existence, have been paid in sectors and works of textile products and fabrics production, in the production of finished textile products, in the manufacture of leather products, in the production of footwear, in the wood-processing industry, and these are indeed the sectors that are the most endangered, whose workers and employees live very hard today. However, there are also those activities where the average earnings are very high, even 15, and some months and 20 times the average of the lowest average earnings paid. These are employees' earnings, for example, in the production and processing of tobacco products, which is very good, since it is shown that the domestic tobacco industry, after all those problems with the gray economy and smuggling, has recovered, and of course, has become attractive to investors from abroad. These are earnings in insurance activities, which are on average 28 to 30 000 dinars; these are activities in the financial services sector; earnings of air traffic employees. And what's important is that there are more and more businesses, and therefore the activities, which are able to pay off high earnings and where employees can live on average from their earnings. I can talk for a long time about indicators that are used to measure living standards, but here I will be willing to all those whose data is needed to deliver them and that they are evaluating those data and then very specific and reasoned, if any of it is not true, we are talking. I would also like to point out that this ministry has, for almost two years already, been at regular monthly press conferences, reported both the media and the widest interested public on the movements of these indicators. Believe me, that at any time through this information, in which we give a list of all the products that enter the minimum and average consumer basket about the value of these products, the amount of these products that come into the composition of those baskets, any price manipulation, I'm sure you'd hardly welcome that and "Kurr", once "Nacional", "Blic", "Glas". There has never been any information so far that has denied that the prices shown in these consumer baskets are true, that they reflect the average prices, either in the green markets, were in Serbian shops and that they are something that is real in Serbia. As for the law proposed by this ministry in the area of trade and tourism, I have to admit that we didn't have any more significant activity and when we talk about results, it's logical and it's necessary to mention where more could be done. Certainly, one segment, part of the ministry, could have been made a better result, and there is a sector of legislation, but one justifiable reason why this has not been done so far lies in the fact that Serbia-Montenegro's new state union and trade and market legislation were on the federal level. However, immediately after the passage of the law to the level of the Republic, after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, we started to work on a new law on trade, a new law on consumer protection, price law, law on commodity reserves, advertising law and anti-monopolity law. From these laws so far, two laws have been passed and are held at a public hearing. It's anti-monopolis law and advertising law. I believe that when the Assembly begins to deal with what is its basic task, and these are the laws, that these laws will come together very soon and will be adopted, primarily the anti-monopol law and the advertising law, and they are at this point a priority, at least when this is the ministry. When we talk further about the results of trade in Serbia, another thesis, which is often highlighted, deserves to be disproved from this place and in this debate. It is the the the the thesis that the entry of foreign trade chains, primarily Mercator and Veropulus, has caused total damage to the domestic market and has flooded the domestic market with foreign goods and, above all, that is the cause of one part of the high foreign trade deficit. It simply does not stand from a simple finding, because in the structure of products located in both "Veropulus" and "Merkator" domestic products is somewhere between 40% and 60%. Of course, I'll be honest with you again, and I'll say that these products... I can see that you are not patient to wait, I'll explain to you nicely, quantified by the number of items, that's correct. I think in the structure of these products by the number of products there are the most types of bread present, there are pasta, dairy products, juices, meat and milk processing and by the number of products, that's true. It is not correctly expressed for one simple reason, which in the country is not produced or produced inadequately to competition or to inadequately price some more durable consumer goods in the offer of these trade chains, such as refrigerators that are mentioned, such as microwave ovens, such as small home appliances, such as some products, or perhaps sports equipment. And just from the fact that a refrigerator is worth not knowing how many hundred pounds of bread or milk, that's why it's valued in foreign trade chains all the more represented, that is, foreign products and manufacturers than it is domestic. However, I repeat once again, as observed by the number of items, that condition is satisfied. What should also be pointed out is that opening the first foreign chains in our country is definitely the seed of competition in Serbia. Until a certain time, up to practically three years ago, remember that we were looking for products, struggling to get some products that were in insufficient quantities present on the market. Today, however, trade chains, both foreign and domestic, are practically engulfing us with prospectuses informing us of their offer, prices, stock sales and thus practically fighting for us as a consumer. It's the range of invigorating market laws, it's the range of democracy, and it's something that suits everyone in this country. Also, consumers in this country do not have to go to a hypermarket abroad today to get some products, and I very responsibly argue that the prices of products, both food and agricultural, and also some previous consumer goods, today in our country are almost identical to the prices that apply in the environment and we can talk about the fact that Serbia’s market is absolutely supplied today to all those products that are needed. As for the privatisation of trade enterprises, I will give you only a few summary data, as my esteemed colleague Vlahovic regularly reports it to you. And in the process of privatising trade enterprises, significant results were achieved as of October 1st 2003 through the method of auction privatisation. 95 commercial companies have been sold, a total selling price of over two and a half billion dinars has been reached, and new buyers have guaranteed, in addition to social programmes, and an investment plan of around 350 million dinars. This is not a large number of companies, however, it should also be recalled that the trade sector is mostly privatised and that there are the largest number of small businesses, independent trades and commercial enterprises and that practically in the trade sector in these largest national chains privatisation has already been completed. For example, over 80% of the C Market is already privatised, and Delta, like the other brand trade chain, there's the Maxi, the Pecabeta, they're also privately owned, and the majority share capital is also in the Si Market, the Apples, and practically the biggest wholesalers are also private. We have a very favourable property structure of Serbia's trade economy. What is currently one of the activities of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, when co-operation with large commercial companies is at stake, it is a struggle to get a Serbian hypermarket. I believe that by the beginning of next year or at the latest by the end of the first half of next year, we will be able to open one and perhaps two hypermarkets in Serbia owned by domestic companies. One is a hypermarket built at Novi Sad, built by a private company called Rodic from The Tower, and it is a hypermarket that, as things stand now, should be finished somewhere in the first quarter, and it will be the largest hypermarket on Serbia's territory. The second hypermarket is being built here in Belgrade and we believe that next year it will be open, and our goal is to work intensively, to create a consortium of large domestic and retail companies and wholesalers and to practically open up Serbian hypermarkets and to open up five to five years of hypermarkets in Serbia, along with the same brand and with these experiences, to go to some surrounding markets. And that what the German or French hypermarket chains sold to Eastern Europe during the 1990s, we try to offer some surrounding markets and thus also contribute to improving the performance of the Serbian economy, greater exports and reducing the external trade deficit. As far as the tourism sector is concerned, the results of the previous thousand days are also very important. I've already said the situation we inherited, and I won't repeat it, because I know that some MPs are annoying, but basically in one sentence we inherited a country where tourism was neither there nor could be because of sanctions, because of wars, because of bombings, and because of all these problems. The actual number of arrivals by tourists was about 2.2 million at the end of last year, and the number of overnight stays increased to about 7.2 million at the end of last year. In the first six months of this year, an increase of around 10% in arrivals was made, somewhere around 20% of the number of tourists arriving from abroad. Foreign tourists' participation in tourist movements rose from 8% in the number of arrivals in 2000 to 14% in 2002, and this year we expect the number of arrivals of foreign tourists in the structure of our country's total tourists to be around 16%. In 2002, the number of tourists from abroad increased from 6% to about 10%. When we speak, at this point perhaps the most significant aspect, which is the financial aspect of the foreign exchange inflow from tourism, I would like to point out that in 2000 the foreign exchange inflow of tourism amounted to $28 million, in 2001 increased to $43 million, in the last year the foreign exchange inflow of tourism amounted to $77 million, and in the first eight months of this year, the foreign exchange inflow of tourism amounted to $94.5 million and was 45% higher than the foreign exchange inflow of tourism throughout 2002. We expect that by the end of this year we will achieve a foreign exchange inflow at an annual level of about $120m and already tourism at the level of foreign exchange inflow becomes one of the most significant, individually observed, export products of this country. In Serbia's tourism development strategy and policy by 2010, we predicted that the annual foreign exchange inflow from tourism would be around two billion US dollars in 2010 and we can only imagine today what it would mean for our country's trade balance, since with these two billion dollars, we have them today, where and where the economic situation in our country would be more favourable. However, in addition to the foreign exchange inflow, when it comes to tourism, one of the priorities is to increase the number of persons employed in the tourism economy, from current participation from around 2.3% to 6-8% in 2010, and we also aim to make the tourism economy a much more significant generator of Serbia's social gross product, as we expect that from the current participation of around 2.5% of tourism will participate with around 8% in Serbia's social gross product in 2010. When we talk about tourism and legislative activity in the field of tourism, I want to point out that this ministry has done a draft law on tourism, which is a basic normative law in the field of tourism. That law wasn't done in a hurry. It has been done for more than a year and has been held for about a year at a public hearing, and in July this year it was adopted as a draft by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and was forwarded to the National Assembly. Of the majority of parliamentary groups, which are part of the Committee on Trade and Tourism of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have received information that this law is a quality normative and legal act and I believe that it will be adopted very quickly by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and some of the newspapers in that law are primarily heading towards regulation of business in the tourism sector and of course - again, again and always - the protection of consumer rights. As far as business regulation is concerned, our goal is to introduce two levels of tourist agencies, tour operators, means those involved in organising travel only in the country and those involved in the organisation of travel both in the country and abroad. This would practically help all those who buy a particular tourist product or service find themselves in a situation that agencies often in prospectuses, in video materials, offer one product in CD presentations, and when a tourist most often appears outside the borders of our country or within our borders at that tourist destination, we open up space through this law so that it can be spotlessly compensated, to be compensated for the damage it will suffer, since the deposit is, that is, a guarantee deposit for travel organisers in the country at a fixed amount of $10,000, and a deposit, or a guarantee deposit for those tourist agencies that will deal with the organisation of travel both in the country and outside the borders of our country is 30,000 dollars. This means practically that all those who submit to the travel inspection and who will not be able to get or not get what is sold will be able to make up for it from the deposits that the travel agency has. The travel organiser will not be able to continue to work again until the deposit is recompensated to 10,000 and 30,000 euros, respectively. As far as the tourism law is concerned, we are dealing with this law and reservation of space for the needs of tourism development in the future. It should be said that today there are not enough real finances and investors that some potential tourist jewels of Serbia, such as the Old Mountain, such as Golia, such as Tara, such as Zlatar, are brought in for tourism purposes and we through this law are practically making room reservations for future times, when there will be investors and when there will be more opportunities from the budget to help develop tourism. When we talk about the law, we should also say that, let's say, this law introduces and prescribes mandatory tourist signalling, and when this law is passed, there will no longer be any problem in any tourist destination in Serbia or any major city in Serbia, which has taken the path of some spa, the path of some mountain, the path of some ethnosela, is lost and it is precisely that tourist signalling that is mandatory and will allow it to quickly, as soon as possible, reach the shortest and the best quality of the road it has taken. From what I still want to point out, when it comes to legislative activity in the tourism sector, it is that the draft law on public ski resorts and the law on spas, as well as the law on hunting and fishing. I believe these laws will be completed by the end of the year and in the following year passed to the National Assembly for adoption. In particular, when we talk about the results of the work of the tourism and catering industry, I would like to point out that during the previous period, a cumulatively observed, 522 tourist and catering facilities were categorized and of which 217 objects were audited, respectively 41.5% of the previously given categorisations, which were mostly given during the 1990s in a way that were recorded by the categorisation commission, certain shortcomings, were given conditional solutions. It was the obligation of those who got one star more or even sometimes two more stars to do it within a certain time frame of the ID. This has never happened and for this very reason more than 40% of the audits previously given categorizations were carried out. 211 hotels, 38 motels, eight pensions, 250 restaurants, four apartment settlements, five tourist apartments and six campsites are categorized. In the same period, since 26 January 2001, 210 solutions have been issued, i.e. 210 solutions. a travel organizer's license. With these 210 solutions, the number of tourist agencies in Serbia is now around 462 agencies, and that is something that is also the result of the ministry's work at the moment, since tourism service consumers are also left with the possibility of choosing among the great offer what is most favourable. Education was also important in the previous period. A total of more than 100 candidates passed the exams for tourist guides and already today we have a completely forgotten category of people and occupations during the 1990s, which is a tourist guide, which shows tourists from the country and abroad the beauty of our tourist destinations. What I particularly want to point out as a result of working in the tourism economy is the approval of the first investment loans for recovery, reconstruction and modernisation of the tourism economy during 2002 and 2003. We had practically since the second half of the 1980s, until 2001, a multi-year disinvestment in tourism and therefore the state of accommodation and all other capacities of the catering and tourism industry was very bad under all European standards. In 2002 and 2003, a total of 240 million dinars of long-term investment loans for capacity reconstruction in the confidence economy and modernisation of these capacities were granted, while the total value of the projects was 770 million dinars. These are loans, which, as in other businesses, have been approved on a five-year repayment deadline, with a year grace period and precisely these credit funds have helped us today in some banks across Serbia to have capacities that are able, in full compliance with Central European standards, to host tourists from the country and abroad. These loans are divided into about 12 tourist sites and facilities. It is also invested in Banja Koviljac, Vrnjačka Banja, Banja Kanjiž, Bukovička Banja, Zlatibor, Kopalnik and so that in all these tourist destinations we already have at least one object that can meet the standards and requirements and the most pervasive consumers from the country and abroad. As for the budgetary position, the incentives for the development of the tourism economy, we had in total in the previous three years relatively limited resources. This was a total of 83,900,000 dinars and what I would like to point out with pride that these funds were distributed across Serbia and that we practically encouraged funding and development of relevant spatial plans for tourism areas, tourism development programmes and urban plans for tourist sites within tourist areas, participated in financing the promotional activities of tourism areas in the country and abroad, helped finance and develop programmes, nature protection, environment, natural resources and cultural heritage of tourist areas, and then encouraged the development of tourism infrastructure, sports-recreative and accompanying facilities which have helped to improve the tourism offer, assist the development of studies and the completion program of existing tourist offerings, intensifying its use. Practically, these funds are allocated to almost all major tourist destinations in Serbia. It is also true that it was not enough, but we tried as hard as we could to help all of us at least a little bit to help some of our manifestations, some of their projects, some of their programs to be faster and better realized. As for privatisation in the tourism economy, I would like to point out that, as of October 1, 2003, a total of 51 tourism and catering enterprises were privatised, 49 companies were privatised by the method of auction privatisation, and two companies were sold in the tender. The total sales price achieved by privatising the tourism and catering economy reached 1.9 billion dinars, and what is very important and what we are proud of, is that the envisaged investments in these privatised enterprises are just over five billion dinars. And this particular struggle to provide the biggest guaranteed investments is why we believe that tourism will succeed in achieving what is being achieved in the next period by its strategy, and that is not only one of Serbia's development opportunities, but also becoming more and more concrete in the reality of Serbia, and in the employment of workers, and in foreign exchange inflows, and in the overall traffic, and in the number of arrivals of tourists and in the number of nights. As far as tourism is concerned, I will leave room to answer some more questions in the field of tourism in later discussions. I would also like to present in a few sentences the results of the sector's activities for international co-operation with the ministry. It is a sector that has been newly formed and, above all, as a result of a new concept regarding the active establishment of co-operation with international institutions. I would like to point out that Serbia's tourism economy has returned, and we as a country, to full membership of the World Tourism Organisation in the first quarter of 2001 and that in collaboration with the World Tourism Organisation, we have already been able to identify ourselves as one of the players of the development of sports and ecological tourism in the region. Last year we held the first international conference on the topic of rural tourism in our country and the organisation of a world tourism organisation. Attendance at these conferences practically helps to turn a part of tourist flows towards our destinations, and above all we inform the professional public in the field of tourism what it is that Serbia can offer as a competitive and quality tourist product and how this tourist product differs from similar tourist products in the surrounding countries. As for the sector for international co-operation, I would particularly like to highlight its activities in order to sign a free-trafficking agreement with countries in the region. I would like to point out that this sector has been actively involved in negotiating free trade agreements with the surrounding countries, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria Romania, Macedonia, Croatia, Moldova. Over the last year, we managed to sign two such agreements. The first is with Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second is with Hungary, and I can tell you that Serbia's economy today suffers significant damages that free trade agreements are not signed with other countries, above all with Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, Croatia, for one simple reason why the examples of agreements that came into force last year with BiH and Hungary are very positive. I will also give you very concrete results, as our exports to BiH after the signing of the free trade agreement in 2002 were 33% higher than in 2001. In this year, the increase in the first eight months was 24.2%. Also, exports to Hungary increased by 21.6% in 2002, and in the first eight months, exports to Hungary of the Republic of Serbia's economy increased by 16.5%. It is precisely these indicators that say how important it is that as soon as we enter the regime and the free trade zones in the environment, and that our companies, which are already successful regionally and can cope with competition in the countries of the environment, open the market and allow them to compete without customs duties and fight for a position in those markets. I expect that in the first year after the establishment of the free trade zone, which should cover somewhere between 55 million and 60 million inhabitants, we will be able to realize that at least one 20-30% of our country's exports are increased annually and above all on those markets. As regards the other activities of the Ministry, I would particularly point out the activities of the market and tourism inspection sector, as the market and tourist inspection sector has just made a significant contribution to curbing the grey economy and protecting consumer rights in these segments. A special accent in the work of the market inspection was on the suppression of illegal traffic of excise products, mainly cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, petroleum products. We can conclude that in these three segments today in our country we cannot talk about a gray economy. The gray economy is completely contained in oil and derivatives. There's no reason to talk about percentages, since there's no more cans on the streets today from which oil is sold. As far as cigarettes are concerned, the best indicator of the result is the record sale of our two tobacco industries, Nis and Vranje, and as regards alcoholic beverages here I accept that the results can be better and that the following period also requires a part in alcoholics, but also in non-alcoholic beverages more sanctioned and forced into the system. However, that part of the grey economy, but also the overall grey economy, we're going to completely tackle the project, which we've also been working on for more than a year now, and this is a project to introduce fiscal registers of cash into our transport sphere. As for this project, I can inform you and the widest auditorium that the testing and hardware and software for the first five producers of the fiscal registers has been completed and we expect that we will be able to assign the first consent for the production and marketing of fiscal cash registers to producers from the country with renowned foreign partners over the next week. I promise that this project will be revived and that the grey economy, primarily under the operation of the fiscalisation of the transport sphere, as well as the value added tax, which will be delayed by six months due to the problem in the Assembly, will practically be reduced to European acceptable frameworks by the end of next year, which is around 10% compared to the total gross social product. As regards the market inspection sector, a total of 439,409 inspection controls have been carried out in the previous thousand days, and when divided by the number of days and the number of market inspectors, each inspector has made more than 1,5 controls a day. This is a significant shift compared to the previous period, and significant shifts have been made when the financial effect of the market inspection is at stake, since, when we talk about finance, 134.636 fines have been imposed on the spot, totaling more than 150 million dinars. It was then proposed to the competent judicial authorities that, in the appropriate criminal proceedings against legal and liability persons, i.e. against entrepreneurs, the confiscation of illegally acquired property benefit totalling more than 131 million dinars. The payment of daily markets, which were found not to have been paid to commercial stores and companies within the legal period of 498 million dinars, was ordered. The total amount of stolen goods is about 713 million dinars. All the effects of the market inspection work are measured not only by results on the ground, i.e. only by the activities of market inspectors, but also by the state of their cases in the second degree and in the Supreme Court, since we have practically had the records of each market inspector each month, how many days he spent at work, how many checks he has carried out, how many mandates he has said, how many infringements he has written, how much of his impact on the budget, but also how many such solutions have been returned, cancelled, amended and how many such solutions have been brought down in the Supreme Court. What is a positive result is that only two solutions in the previous three years have been brought down in court cases, which means that not only the quantity, but also the quality of the market inspection work has been significantly improved. From excise products, I heard that someone was looking for concrete data, market inspectors took away over 1.3 million liters of oil and oil products. It was primarily in 2001, because in these two years almost there's nothing to subtract, because there's no selling oil and oil derivatives on illegal markets. A cigarette of over 6.5 million packs, an alcoholic drink of 135 thousand liters, a non-alcoholic drink of 154,000 liters, a luxury product of a million 730 thousand pieces and a coffee of more than 116 thousand kilograms. As for the activities of the tourist inspection, it is one of the youngest inspection services, which was formed in late 2000. Practically, from January 26th 2001 to the end of September 2003, it totalled 48,627 inspection controls, of which 683 controls were in tourist and about 48,000 controls in catering work. The effects of a tourist inspection on the budget are much smaller than market inspections, but it should be pointed out that 4.430 is required by the judge for violations, in the total value of 5.8 million dinars, almost 9.5 thousand fines for violations, amounting to nearly 10 million dinars, 22.743 acts in administrative procedure, and 4.144 solutions prohibiting the performance of work for illegal work and other violations of the rules, 6,843 solutions that require the correction of irregularities and compliance with the rules and 10.5 000 solutions to meet minimum technical conditions for the performance. As for the activities of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, which is also part of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services as an authority of the administration, it has responded absolutely to its function in the past three years and has always been in place when it was necessary to respond to certain indications, even market disturbances. As regards the concrete effect of the work of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, a total of 732.142 tonnes of mercantile wheat, 100.134 tonnes of seed wheat, 4,000 tonnes of meat purchased for natural exchange. Then, for some 1.8 billion dinars, agricultural...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-06-0.u34344	Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you, since it's 18 hours, you'll continue to present at the session. I want to give a message to the MPs. I thank Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are aware that after a long time today, we have had a delay in work due to a lack of quorum, which was still meant to provide an opposition that demands the government's mistrust. The second thing, you also know that a meeting was held at the break with the heads of the parliamentary groups, where the president of the DOS parliamentary group suggested that we make an agreement that all MPs withdraw their application to the floor, in order to join the vote. That proposal was rejected. The third thing, and most important to me, is that this parliament consists of 28 parties, 24 of which have their presidential candidates, and next week is the last week before the presidential elections, which are the most important for our country at the moment, based on Article 94(2), I set a break until November 18th, which is Tuesday, when we will continue to work. Good-bye and good-bye.
