ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 129 MPs attend the session. Please, to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, insert your identification cards into your MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Radmilo Misovic, Meho Omerović, Bojana Alexic, Juhas Attil, Vladan Jovičić, Dragan Sutanovac and Radoslav Veseinovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, which was convened at the request of a group of 109 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 162. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request for the holding of the Fourth Extraordinary Session with the agenda set out in that request. In accordance with Article 80(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of seven days because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee for the Preparation of the Law on the Way and Procedure of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in order to create conditions for the start of work to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. With that in mind, I remind you it's in article 65. The Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro established that Member States have an obligation to amend their constitutions or adopt new constitutions in order to comply with the Constitutional Charter within six months of the date of adoption of the Constitutional Charter and that Article 20(2). The law implementing the Constitutional Charter establishes the obligation of Member States to comply with their constitutions with the Constitutional Charter and ratified international agreements between the state union of Serbia and Montenegro within six months of the date of entry into force of the Constitutional Charter and that those deadlines have begun to run since 4 February 2003, i.e. from the date of adoption and declaration of the Constitutional Charter in the Federal Assembly. As you could see, for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee for the Preparation of Laws on the Mode and Procedure of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic; 2. A proposal for a law on concessions, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE COMMISSION FOR PREPARATION OF THE COURT OF WAYS AND THE PROCEDURE OF THE CHANGE OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a decision, submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic, as well as a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I remind you that the total time for debate is five hours and that it is distributed to parliamentary groups, a relatively large number of MPs that these groups have. I remind you, according to the Rules of Procedure, a single search is being conducted on the proposal for a decision. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to file a statement. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the motion for a decision, MP Bojan Pajtic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26300	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is the formation of a panel of draft law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is practically the first step in changing the current, that is, the adoption of a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons and motives that led us to propose such a procedure relate to the need to align the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia with the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Charter, as well as to the need to break up with the authoritarian past and to the modernisation of those provisions of the Constitution relating to the authorities of the state authority and the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. The functions of this commission will, above all, be looked at in resolving the issue of legality or constitutionality, so whether it is necessary for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to change according to the procedure prescribed by the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, given that it is a category of a rigid constitution, or a constitution that is practically unchangeable. The irreversibility of the Constitution has also caused serious consequences in the past ten years, as we have lived for ten years in a situation where the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was not in line with the federal constitution, that we lived in a situation where the Federal Constitutional Court disputed and declared unconstitutional certain provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia could not be corrected because of this procedure. Furthermore, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is practically unchangeable due to the fact that the Republic of Serbia does not currently have the fact but only formal sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, and that, on the other hand, Kosovo and Metohija is an integral and inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, the settlement with this situation, or the calling of a referendum that is part of the procedure that is needed (by the current Constitution) to change the existing constitution, would mean the reconciliation with the current situation of things in Kosovo and Metohija, which we certainly will not accept and which none of us absolutely wants. In this regard, we do not want to prejudge what the Commission is going to decide, but it is clear that the Commission is going towards constitutional discontinuity by its creation and function, i.e. moving towards a change in the Constitution through partial discontinuity or complete discontinity. Partial discontinuity would mean that part of the procedure that exists in the existing constitution would be maintained, especially the part relating to a two-thirds decision in parliament; total discontinuity would mean a completely new procedure for adopting a new republican constitution. By constitutional discontinuity, as through the change of the Constitution, we also moved in the preparation of the Constitutional Charter of the Community of Serbia-Montenegro and, apart from the Republic of Hungary, practically all countries in transition resorted to constitutional discontinity as a way of changing the constitution. Some of them, such as Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, had a correlation between constitutional discontinuity and state discontinuity; others, such as Poland, constitutional discontinuity was primarily due to a change in social relations within the country. We can say that constitutional discontinuity is practically one of the basic features of transition countries - therefore breaking up with the non-democratic totalitarian past and the non-democratic totalitarian social relations in those countries. I note that the professional public is practically undivided on this matter and practically supports this way of change or the adoption of a new republican constitution. The Commission, in this composition that we choose today, which today we propose to the institutions that will delegate its representatives to it, will strike the foundations of the constitution not to the restitutional but to the constitutional authority, so to the only authority that is self-constitutional, the only authority that rules its own constitution and which prescribes its own scope. In this respect, the second function of this Commission will be to identify and address the issue of representativeness of that body, which will take part in the process of changing or adopting a new constitution, both from defining the proposal for a new constitution and to voting the constitution itself, to the majority necessary when voting in parliament. What is very important is that, at the time of proposing this commission, we have defined the representatives of all three forms of government -- legislative, executive and judicial authorities, all those institutions that are relevant for the functioning of the legal system, all parliamentary political parties. And it is quite clear that the future constitutional commission, or body that is working on a new republican constitution, must certainly come from that principle, therefore, the broadest consensus, both the government and NGOs, the expert public and the institutions that need to be consulted in the construction of a new constitution. The new constitution defines Serbia as a new political community based on the principle and the principle of democracy. If we accept the Commission's proposal in this way, we will give the new political community something at first to every new political community at the very beginning, which is the broadest consensus of the political and professional public. Vote for this proposal! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26301	I would like to thank the motionary. Does the rapporteur of the relevant Committee on Constitutional Affairs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to take part in the debate? The word is issued by MP Borislav Pelevic, deputy president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26302	Dear citizens of Serbia, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have received this bill of law that tried to explain the proposing, Mr. Pajtic. Two things are quite certain, which is that there must be a change in the constitution; secondly, that changes in the constitution will be very difficult, given that the current Constitution prescribes a two-thirds majority for the possibility of changing the constitution, i.e. to adopt a new constitution, as well as a referendum, where two-thirds of the citizens must also be made known about changes in the constitution, i.e. the adoption of a new constitution. So these are two things that are absolutely not controversial. What is controversial in this proposal for a decision is that point 1 states that a commission is educated with the task of, in accordance with Articles 132, 133 and 134. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 65. The constitutional charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, proposes a law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the procedure of the commission's work. This would not be controversial, however, in light of the decision, something quite different is said. Chapter II of Article 2 states: "The constitution of the new state union of Serbia-Montenegro points to the possibility of a different process of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia from the procedure laid down in Articles 132 and 133. The Constitution." So, in full collegiate, the proposal for a decision and an explanation of this proposal for a decision is, so I would ask Mr Pajtic, the Proposer, to explain it a little bit in the next presentation, given that I now do not understand whether this decision is made in accordance with Articles 132, 133 and 134 or whether it is to avoid the application of Articles 132, 133 and 134. The Constitution. Mr. Pittice, please explain this. It is quite certain that, given that it will be very difficult to hold a referendum on Kosovo and Metohija, with which I fully agree with the proposal, there must be some procedure to eskicipate the members of the constitution. This should be said more clearly, not in a decision to say one thing, that this is in accordance with these articles of the Constitution, and in an explanation that this is contrary and that we must change everything that is regulated by Articles 132, 133 and 134. The Soviet Parliament group has serious objections to this decision, as it is obvious that it is contrary to the current Serbian Constitution. We also accept that it is almost impossible in this assembly to change Serbia's Constitution by a two-thirds majority. That is why a compromise solution should be found, but this should be said loud and clear to the citizens of Serbia, not to say one thing in the decision, but in the explanation of the other. It is even less clear to me as a national MP, and to the citizens of Serbia what is actually happening - whether the constitution will be changed in accordance with Articles 132 and 133 of the current Constitution, or whether these members will be avoided or excitated in order to bring about changes to the Constitution. There's another one that's very discussionable, and that's that we didn't get the bill. So it's about the education committee, and we don't have the law to change the Constitution. Until we have a law on amending the Constitution, or a draft law on amending the Constitution, we cannot vote for a decision, because we do not know what this commission is actually going to do and on what basis this commission is going to do. I hope the proposer will explain this in more detail, which I have asked the question of, because they are obviously in a conflict of decisions and an explanation of this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26303	People's MP Bojan Pajtic, the proponent of the decision, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26304	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not about the bill. We have before us a proposal for a decision on the education of the commission. The main task of this commission is to draft a bill on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution. I ask you not to countercipe what will be the results of the commission's work, which will be the procedure, which will be the way. There are no starting grounds at this time. The only starting point is a commission that needs to enter into business and, within a certain time limit, propose this assembly a way and process to change this constitution. Everything else, the constitution, the structure of the constitution, is all just a topic for discussion that will surely last for months in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26305	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? Please, MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26306	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, has said a lot about the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia over the past two and a half years, DOS most, with a lower or greater intensity, not explaining what the problem with the current constitution is, what its shortcomings are, if they are, but negative and flat-rate assessments are given, as a rule, when public attention should be drawn from the poor moves of the current government or the problems that exist in Serbia. At the same time, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was infrequently violated whenever the DOS needed it, and it was silenced or declared compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment to the Constitution was also discussed several weeks ago with the president of the National Assembly, and with regard to the presidential elections and its obligations to call the elections at the time. The change in the Constitution was then used as a fundamental reason for the elections not to be held, i.e. not to be called. The decision says the elections will be held after the constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been brought into line with the Constitutional Charter. At that time, in a conversation with the National Assembly president, on behalf of the SPS, and on behalf of the Constitution, since it was one of the topics, I expressed the view that the SPS is against the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a good constitution that has been adopted, according to one well-knowledge of constitutional and legal matter, on the principles of the modern state, and when it is looked at, it will be seen that few modern solutions that cannot be adopted on the basis of that constitution. The existing constitution has a quality that cannot be ignored. It established the legal and territorial unity of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution holds Serbia together and is a cohesion factor. In addition, Serbia's Constitution and in practice has been tested several times by citizens and the exam has been passed successfully. This constitution is virtually 15 times checked in the elections and it is the best way to confirm its values. In fact, the Constitution (that is the essential reason for this story of the change in the Constitution) contains certain solutions that are not in line with DOS and the interests that DOS represents, and therefore the Constitution is changed. For example, solutions on the president of Serbia. It has proved to be an empty story about the great powers of the President of the Republic. They are free of great powers when DOS candidate cannot win the direct elections, even if the electoral censorship is reduced at the time of the elections. It is obvious that DOS's intention to change the way the president's election and, instead of direct elections, to transfer it to parliament and to provide the majority necessary for the election of the president of the state, with the help of the assembly majority and newly formed phantom parliamentary groups. In the talks on the Constitution, I said, and today I will confirm this, that the SPS will try to deal with two things compared to the change in the Constitution. First, that the Constitution of Serbia does not change in an unconstitutional way. As the Constitution changes, it is known, it is contained in the Constitution. A constitutional coup cannot be accepted, as has already been done with the Constitutional Charter. Secondly, we also want to say what is unacceptable for us socialists in changing the Constitution. In fact, we will not accept that under Serbia's regionalisation company, Serbia's virtually federalisation, the secession of Serbia, its feudalisation. We will not accept the elements of statehood in the content of autonomy. We will not accept anything that is at the expense of Serbia. We believe Serbia should have a president elected in the direct elections. There will be a number of other issues that the Socialists will raise their views on, but we will discuss this when specific issues are on the agenda. I'd like to say a few things on the basis of a commission to prepare the law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution. We will see whether through solutions seemingly technical issues, the Commission will make substantial changes to the provisions governing the way the Constitution changes and thus determine the way for other unconstitutional changes. The Commission's composition -- the principle and need of proportionate representation of each parliamentary group is not respected. This relationship, when it comes to MPs, was made without some firm and precise criteria, to say the Odea. When the constitutional commission is formed, this should be corrected and the number of MPs taken as a measure of representation of a parliamentary group must be known. DOS can't and I don't think it's fair that he's performing as a whole now. Two days ago, when another issue was on the agenda -- the allocation of mandates in the future Serbia-Montenegro Assembly -- and when we socialists were to be kidnapped by two mandates, it was different. Then a different DOS structure is shown. It cannot go together once and it can be divided twice; if there are different parliamentary groups then it should be determined that all parliamentary groups will be represented in that commission. Why are representatives of the Kosovo and Metohija coalition involved in this commission, or one of its representatives? I am not convinced that this is a good solution, as it is known that the coalition in the Kosovo and Metohija elections did not receive support from the electoral body. They only seem to be there because the government of the Republic of Serbia is behind them. In addition, the government of the Republic of Serbia also funded an election campaign, practically led the campaign coalition in the elections, both media and other ways, to cover all activities of the "Return" Coalition. Of course, only those considered to be good, and they are not mentioned badly, nor is the reputation of the coalition between Serbian and other living in Kosovo and Metohija. It would be logical for one of the MPs of this assembly living in Kosovo and Metohija to be a member of this commission. In our parliament, we have more MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, and it is logical that one of them should be a member of the commission. Finally, as all of the DOS are called to the Constitutional Charter, as a reason for the change of the Constitution, I would like to mention that there is a commitment in the Charter by the Member States to implement the Constitutional Charter within six months of the entry into force of the Constitution, which is 4 February of this year, to amend their constitutions or to bring new constitutions. This commission doesn't say it's about one or the other. We believe it is rational to make changes to the existing constitution, instead of making a new constitution; and also, to make changes to the adopted Constitutional Charter and to replace solutions that have objectively failed to withstand the test of time. In any case, the commission must also officially set a deadline within which the whole process of changing the Constitution must be completed. We know it's six months. I say this because the end of this job is also taken as a reason to postpone the presidential election, so it can be abused through endless delay, which will only boost the political crisis in a country that has existed for a long time. Serbia does not need a new constitution, as much as the elections and the new government are needed. The change of the Constitution cannot and must not be an excuse to postpone elections in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26307	Thank you. I ask, do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26308	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, does this assembly have the legitimacy to even discuss any part of the agenda, including this one? Of course not. [[Sagar.]] If we talk about the Constitution, as well as the question of legitimacy, we can ask the question -- why is the change in the Constitution only now? Why has it been more than two years to open the issue of changing the Constitution, if we know that the Constitution is a basic act and a framework for all state changes, institutional changes and even reforms in one country, which should start to build democracy, to enter the transition process, but not with outdated mechanisms and institutions, but with new institutions. Why was it waiting so long to proceed in the process of changing Serbia's constitution? Why was it necessary for some delay in changing Serbia's constitution to be used as an opportunity to delay the question of citizens' will? Why is it that in this assembly, which has no legitimacy for changing the Constitution - because there have been many changes in the composition of parliamentary groups that do not comply with this constitution - the provisions of the existing Constitution are not respected and the composition of the Assembly is thus changed? These are questions that lie with their shoulders in this congregation and which are justified by some subsequent will of certain MPs who are contrary to this law. We wouldn't want to get into how that will was given, by means of means and mechanisms. The fact is, she's contrary to the will of the citizens. It can be said that this congregation in this system is not legitimate to make any decisions, especially to deal with these decisions. The professional public and political parties in general believe it is necessary to bring a new constitution and create discontinuity with the existing constitution. It's a unique attitude. There is no unique position in which to create discontinuity with the change of the existing Constitution. Whether to go to the two-thirds majority mechanism in this assembly or not to go to a referendum or to adopt the constitution by some majority. Some would also say to the absolute majority in this assembly, so that they could, through the illegal assembly's composition, push through solutions that are acceptable to their political option. As a party, we have advocated from day one that the best solution for discontinuity is to schedule elections for a constitutional assembly, which in the best possible way would reflect the will and political determination of citizens for an individual option that would advocate a particular constitution - whether it is a matter of republic, monarchy or any other form. It would simply determine the will of the citizens and their commitment to the constitutional arrangement and, in general, to the state in which they want to live. Unfortunately, there was no agreement on such a solution. No matter what part of the professional public insisted on the constitutional assembly, this did not occur. After the Constitutional Charter was adopted, and against the will of some, it had to be entered into the process of drafting Serbia's new constitution. Why were many against Serbia's new constitution? Serbia's new constitution means elections after the constitution is passed. Who doesn't respond to the election? Those who fear elections and who fear citizens and know they do not have the support of citizens in Serbia for what they are doing. That is why it is likely that the intention of adopting this constitution is hidden, that the issue of elections after the adoption of this constitution is delayed; the implementation of a solution from this constitution will only apply when the four-year period or one regular election cycle expires; by adopting the constitution it solves the issue of new elections, it is already delayed. It is obvious that some people’s intention to enter into the writing of this constitution and, in general, in the process itself, as well as to play the will and determination of citizens to create legal discontinuity and to build a new state that will be an adequate legal framework for changing the system, which is certainly not. The DSS is the first party to come up with a proposal for a constitution and a procedure to change that constitution, that the Constitution's amendment committee is formed on the basis of the proportionate participation of MPs in this assembly, but not on the day that you illegally and illegally changed its composition, but on the day of the Assembly's constitution and that all decisions are made in this committee, and also in this assembly are made by a two-thirds majority. This is to ensure that the constitution is absolutely the result of the agreement of the largest number of political actors in the country, not the will of certain groups, which, by breaking the law, change the blood count of this assembly. The DSS insisted that there was no such step as to pass laws establishing the way and procedure of amending the Constitution, to establish a commission that would also establish the procedure for amending the Constitution and for writing the new text of the constitution; I think it would be equally possible and only shorten the process of making a new constitution. If the composition of this commission is looked at, it is imposed as an attitude -- is it necessary again for this assembly to have a tutorship to write the constitution; if it is legislative activity, especially on the issue of the constitution, and on the existing constitution in the hands of this assembly, why should many others be involved in the work of this commission? Well, we have three members of the government, there are representatives of the board, but if we look at the composition of the Assembly committees, they don't reflect the proportion of MPs in this assembly, so we can say that these committees are legitimate, too. We will take only the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which does not reflect the composition of MPs in this assembly, which is one, to say freely, of the most important committees, where this should be respected. Through the committees themselves, through the government's participation, it is the intention to provide through this commission the will of an artificial majority in this assembly, but minorities in Serbia, to ensure the authority of such a group. Also, the consultations that we had with the president of the Assembly, where we received this text and where they could only make minor changes to the proposal for a decision, raised not only the question of the participation of the Return Coalition, as a political entity in Kosovo, but also the question of whether, in accordance with Resolution 1244 and the preamble of the Constitutional Charter, they should also call on the UNMIK administration and inform them that Serbia's new constitution is under way and that they, in accordance with Resolution 1244, are involved in writing Serbia's new constitution. The "Return" coalition was thought to be the only one responsible for participating in the writing of this constitution. If we remind ourselves that a large number of Serbs from Kosovo boycotted elections for the Kosovo assembly, it concludes only half or a small part of the Serbs from Kosovo are involved in writing the constitution, and most simply do not participate. Most Kosovo citizens will not participate in writing a new constitution. We believe that it is necessary to call on the administration in Kosovo to engage in the creation of this constitution. This is in line with the preamble of the Constitutional Charter and Resolution 1244. Also, most of the parties and most of the politicians from the north of Kosovo did not participate in the elections under the Return Coalition, and they will not be represented in writing the constitution. These are some of the things that we are facing and that will definitely have to be resolved when a committee is formed to write the constitution, if there is a intention to resolve it. The Democratic Party of Serbia cannot support such a proposal because it is contrary to the procedure proposed by the DSS for the new constitution of Serbia, which was promoted in January of last year, which states that this job is exclusively in the jurisdiction of this assembly, that we do not need a tutorship or anything else by the government and other services in the process of writing the constitution, but that professional assistance for each member of the commission can be sought and that this decision provides expert consultation for all the competent ones in the course of the constitution, including this law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we cannot support this, but we expect that the process of making a new constitution should be brought into the extreme seriously and responsibly, that some solutions should not be smudged and that individual factors should not be guided by the day-to-day political interests, but by the interests of the state. Because if we enter into one round of easy and fast changes in the constitution, in principle of discontinuity, the question is where it will lead us and whether some of the next authorities will be the one who will change the constitution again and introduce legal and any other instability into the state, institutionalally, and thus make a mockery of our country, which is certainly not of interest to us. The DSS will be extremely serious and responsible for entering the constitutional change process because it is considered to be one of the most serious matters, which this assembly had to deal with before.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26309	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26310	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it would be bad for this parliament if this debate went in the direction in which it went, let's say, a debate on the Constitutional Charter and when our unsettled daily -- political relations, to the extent that it is unacceptable, would politicise this job, which is primarily of national and national importance. We are discussing a decision on the constitution of a commission to discuss issues which have been opened in recent years and which have been opened in previous discussions - on issues of the status of the President of the Republic, on matters of territorial organisation, on issues of possibility for the Constitution to change through a defined procedure; the commission should then propose a number of solutions which parliament will be responsible for discussing. Believe that any debate on the Constitution, which involves the kind of politicisation that marked our two-year work, is unacceptable to us as a parliamentary majority. We discussed this with party representatives at consultations, trying to reach that level of co-operation and consensus that would guarantee this commission the opportunity to discuss everything responsibly. So, nothing prejudges solutions, and it is not true that our intention is to bring the constitution to parliament with a mere vote, because it is clear that the constitution defines this state in such a way that it actually needs to function. If the constitution depends on a thin parliamentary majority, then each parliamentary majority will be able to change it. I appeal to the representatives of the opposition to understand in this our really good intentions and will to work together on this job, because this job is not daily - political importance. It's important to say why it starts today with this debate. It is true that there have been numerous demands for Serbia to be constitutionally defined and defined. These demands existed on the day the Constitution was passed 13 years ago. And then there were those who were content and those who were not content. At the time, there were representatives of the authorities who claimed that the constitution needed to be brought, that elections had to be called, and there were representatives of the opposition who also claimed that the elections needed to be called first, so that the constitution was made. And the government and the opposition can never agree to an absolute extent, but let's say today it's for example. This is the most ideal moment we've ever met in the last two and a half years to start this job. For what? Because this parliament could not constitutionally redefine Serbia, nor think about it, until it was known whether Serbia was an independent state, whether it was part of a Federation that existed for the past ten years, or whether it was part of a state community that was created in the meantime. Since we know what Serbia's national destiny is, at least for the next three years, we want to remove the obstacles that exist in the existing constitutional model, which prevent its smooth functioning within that state community. What are these obstacles? About the same ones that existed since 1992, when constitutional harmonisation was imposed on Serbia by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was not then carried out. We've talked about it many times, and we, like most, really don't want to confront the opposition in this way. Let's try to see if it's possible for this parliament to form a committee that will answer all the questions that exist, offer answers, and then could we agree on the most qualitative answers? Can we say that the constitution is changing in a constitutionally established way - we can. That's not a problem for us, but let's think about the next step right now -- what happens if that's not possible? It's not a question for this debate, it's a matter for the commission. That is why the commission is next to the representatives of parliament, and representatives of institutions that would otherwise not be in place in a parliamentary commission. The only procedural deficit is actually the business deficit, which makes it impossible for us to be absolutely in line with the Rules of Procedure at the moment, because the Rules of Procedure do not foresee the possibility of forming a commission in which other institutions in society would be represented. That's one observation, and we talked about it at the consultations, and we agreed -- it's true, it is, but let's try to solve it with mutual consent, because we need these people in that commission. We need the Constitutional Court judges because we are discussing the possibility of changing the Constitution in an emergency situation. What's she special about? I think that's clear, and that's what the predecessors were talking about. We cannot organise a referendum on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in order for the Constitution to be changed through a constitutionally defined procedure. I believe that the two-thirds majority is not an insurmountable obstacle, because I am sure that through the process of harmonising attitudes, thinking about the interests of this society, we will be able to achieve this consensus. But let's leave it for the commission. The deadlines are limited - eight days, then fifteen days to make the law, precisely because we want it to start as soon as possible. Why were you waiting? I said one elemental reason, because we didn't know which country we were living in. But those who have been critics of such a relationship with this business all the time say today -- it's been too long, but we don't want to support this, because, let's say, those who don't have a place in this business are involved. Why is the Return Coalition participating? Because the only politically organized force in Kosovo and Metohija, please, is the moment (disdain), which is a coherent element, so it gathers more parties within itself. Does that rule out anyone else? It does not exclude anyone, but the coalition participated in elections in Kosovo and Metohija, which 60% of the Serb national electoral body came out, and it has some legitimacy. The coalition participated in other elections and had problematic results, but let's say it's not, it's much more realistic that they participate, at least in drawing up this bill than to ask UNMIK's administration to participate. Well, we've had enough of one Solana, so those who... We have been criticised for the participation of Solana today for seeking to participate in UNMIK that is not a job. This parliament and this society have enough power to solve their national problems and respect international circumstances in the process. In these circumstances, of course, the actors would be representatives of the international administration in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, but in the proposal for this decision, it was not realistic to ask for such a thing, because they do not belong in this business now. And that's what we talked about, and we made it very clear. As for the existing model for resolving the constitution, they really exist and they should be respected by the commission, but they have nothing to do with this decision. This decision, in fact, only gives the commission the formal right to start working, to respect all existing constitutional proposals and to come out with some document ahead of us. So, nothing prejudges. And if we can move the debate in that direction, then today we need to talk about whether the parties are satisfied with the relationship within the Commission. At our consultation, we made it very clear why the number of representatives is limited to 15. That's about 5% of our parliamentarians. The DOS has reduced the number of representatives to its damage that other parties could have within it, as it is not a functioning commission of 30 members. But if parliament says it takes 30, it's no problem for us to have 30 members of that committee, with it only burdening the work further. I think we've preserved the general proportion. One of the rules that was present is that each parliamentary group should have a representative and therefore some parliamentary groups have one. The second rule was to respect the number of MPs that exist in the parliamentary groups and to establish some mutual proportion, so MP groups with 20 or 30 MPs are proportionate to the number of ambassadors who have our coalition here and for this reason we did not share ourselves in the parliamentary groups, because that would only increase the number of representatives within that commission. Not with the intention of cheating on anyone, but with the intention of making concessions to help the commission work. The need for this society is to constitutionally define the country, for many reasons, and some are also mentioned and they are not only linked to the period of our government. Some of them are the ones who are attached to this society's perspective, because we also need to take care of it, and that's why this commission needs to work. And she'll work. If this depends only on the parliamentary majority, it will be provided, but I think that all parties participating in the parliamentary life of Serbia are the place in the commission, and we guarantee that their views will be respected, that they will seek compromises, because Serbia must be a society in which we all feel equal. If we create Serbia according to today's parliamentary majority, tomorrow someone else will adapt it to himself. That's not what we want. We want a democratically decorated state and it can be created in this way. The Commission allows this, and I call on you to vote for it, with all the issues that remain open, but which commission should carefully consider and I think that will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26311	The word is made by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26312	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the tragedy of the Serbian people, Serbian states and all citizens of Serbia is that in the past two years the most serious state issues are dealt with by people who are not capable of it, who are not understood and educated enough, regardless of what their intentions are. The intention is too subjective in this case, so that it can be discussed precisely and objectively. However, political action on the platform and what may be the consequences are already both objective categories and can cause general concern. This is where the government wants to change the Constitution. It's a legitimate and legitimate political desire. However, something has already happened that is extremely illegal and illegal. Here, in an anti-constitutional way, the decision to change the Constitution has been passed. The obligation to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has already been established here, in an anti-constitutional manner, by voting so-called "the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia". Constitutional statutes. You have obliged the National Assembly of Serbia to change the constitution by an absolute majority of votes, and the constitution states that only two-thirds of the vote can be changed. You have already created a legally unbearable situation, and in it you become more and more entangled as a chicken in a house. Here, the one who came out with a proposal to adopt a decision on the education of the Committee for the Preparation of the Law on Change of the Constitution gave a certain political explanation and thus showed that it is not understood in politics or law. Most people talk about continuity around here. It's about breaking up continuity, breaking up with something, and it's said to break up with the totalitarian past, breaking up with the authoritarian past, but whoever's talking about it doesn't know what the fundamental difference between the totalitarian past and the authoritarian past is. First, in terms of continuity -- there is a legal and political continuity. Break-up of political continuity, i.e. Interrupting the political continuity for the state is no problem. With every change of government, that principle, Pitiæ, since you don't know anything, I have to teach you, there's a change... until the break-up (disaster) or until the break-up... Wait, this is what Paytich explained. They keep changing their last names, I don't know. [[growls]] In my notes, this is what Paytic was saying. And this is Pajtic, so they keep changing their last names, I can't handle it. Milka, I don't have much time, slowly, to say what I have. He's talking about breaking up political continuity. It's okay. There was a break in your political continuity by coming to power in 2000, and the people voted for you that way. Don't play with the legal continuity. There is an international and legal continuity of states and there is an internal legal continuity of states. Both are very, very important. The Kingdom of Yugoslavia, i.e. the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, was jealous of the continuity of the Kingdom - state in an international and legal sense. Communist dictator Tito has been struggling to preserve the international and legal continuity of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. He fought again, and in half an hour, Kostunica dumped the international continuity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, carrying out a coup and sending Goran Svilanovic on his behalf, past the federal government, to seek admission to the UN of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as a newly formed state, although we were already in the UN membership, only our membership has been suspended on participation in the work of the General Assembly. Our flag swung in front of the East River General Assembly in New York. There was an international-legal contituity thrown under the feet. The Kingdom of Serbia, internationally recognised as an independent state at the Berlin Congress, was dumped. The Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia, FNRJ, SFRY and SRJ were thrown under the feet. Everything was thrown under the feet with one thoughtless move. From that move, she now had a niche of "solania" as a provision of Western forces that would not last long. What about Serbia now? Serbia, by abolishing the federal state, has found itself in a very difficult situation. It must insist on an international and internal legal continuity. Serbia is very difficult now to achieve recognition of international legal continuity with the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, etc. It's in international law, by my estimate, now impossible. Serbia can only now insist on the legal continuity of the communist-era Serbian SR. That's all she's got left. If you throw it under your feet, you will bring us into a situation where Serbia is soon recognised as a newly formed country with various blackmails from the West, in terms of Kosovo, Vojvodina, the Raska districts, or Sandzak, and who knows what else. You're preparing it for Serbia, and we Serbian radicals can't stop you from doing it yet, but we won't be taking part in it with you either. It's our place to tell the people what you're preparing for him. You're saying here this is a breakup with a totalitarian and authoritarian past. Let me explain it a little bit to Pitiæ and Ristic, it's not burning. Breaking up with the totalitarian past took place in December 1990 with the first parliamentary multiparty elections. Then the totalitarian past, when various parties went to the polls, was rejected. From 1990 to 2003, there was no totalitarianism, but there is an authoritarian past. What was authoritarian about that? The media blockade of opposition parties. She was at the time of Milosevic, and you are even more pronounced. The kidnapping of MPs' seats to opposition parties, it's our authoritarian past, from this skin you can't escape. There's been this before, and now there's so much more. At least they didn't steal the party registrations before, and now you've hijacked Vuko Obradovic's registration, or you're just preparing some. There was something about Ivkovic, so you gave up on time. Otherwise, it was on the edge too. It's an authoritarian past. What else is authoritarian history? Infringement of the provisions of the Constitution, by the law of the government, which considers its interest to be a hindrance to legal norms and to the principles of legal order. It's authoritarianism. Authoritarianism is therefore very close to autocracy. It is not essentially autocracy, because in autocracy there is no choice, there is no constitutional arrangement in the right sense of the word, but authoritarianism according to individual acts resembles autocracy. That was before, and now there's so much more. Authoritarianism, our authoritarian past is the dragon punishment of opposition MPs, monetary punishment, manipulation of the ability to vote, to speak in the Assembly, etc. With the media, the situation is much worse today than before, much worse. It's about the nature of the regime. Breaking up is only possible with the next election. But let's see about your desire to change the Constitution. Serbia's current constitution has a falinky in its legitimacy, and that's true. This constitution has been brought by the Communist Assembly. He has one democratic element, a referendum. I'll remind you, in 1990, our party was most strongly advocated by the Constitutional Assembly, there were still parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26313	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26314	Yeah, I'll use it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26315	I'm just asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26316	This is the topic. This is where the constitutional changes are being prepared. That's the darkness. I'm talking about the essence of the matter, not whether Marco or Janko will be on that committee of yours. We're not interested in radicals. We're not gonna be on that committee of yours. So this is a constitution that is democratic by its content. There are certain shortcomings like any constitution, but the content is democratic. This constitution is not quite democratic in the way it is adopted. It was brought by the Communist assembly and it was a non-democratic line, but it went to a referendum and I'm sure the referendum was regular. In the referendum, the people accepted this constitution. Doberica Ćosic personally urged the people, and many other prominent academics, to go to the polls. More than 50% of the citizens must have come out and voted in favour of this constitution and no one challenged it, although I did not go out to vote, nor did our party. It's something that subsequently gave the Constitution a democratic element. Something more fundamentally confirmed the democratic nature of this constitution. This is the exit of all registered political parties to the December elections in 1990, under the provisions of this constitution and the exit of all relevant parties to all subsequent elections under the provisions of this constitution. This constitution could have fallen from the sky, God could have written it himself, but he was here for 12 years of political practice accepted as a relevant constitution. The fact that it is not in harmony with the federal constitution is not so important, because in the event that federal and republican constitutions are in collegiate, the federal constitution is applied. The fact that it is not compatible with the federal government has not produced negative legal consequences and you do not need to be distracted by this issue. This is the only constitution that has Serbia, and you want to change it. I have nothing against your wish, but then someone should first say what it is that is not good in the present Constitution. You know it needs to be changed, and yet no one has explained what it is that needs to be changed. Maybe there's something in it that needs to change everything, maybe just something. Maybe it's enough to change the amendments what needs to be changed. I agree that some things have to change and I'd like to list you five things right now, five members of the Constitution. It's no problem, but how do you change it? This constitution can only be changed by the constitution of the prescribed procedure. If you will now break Serbia's legal continuity, this little continuity that we have left, then you will come outside to write the Constitution. You can't avoid Solana or anything like him. If it is possible for this constitution to change in an anti-constitutional way, then tomorrow it will come to you and tell you - this must enter the Constitution, vote you, not vote. Then they will tell you, it is enough for a fifth of the MPs to vote and it is voted. Anything's possible then. When the constitution is thrown under the feet, nothing is forbidden. This constitution keeps the Criminal Law, the Code of Criminal Procedure and all other system laws. If this goes down, the whole legal order is down. Then he's allowed to kill, he's got more power. Then illegal arrest is allowed, then everything is allowed. Then everything depends on the relationship of power and there are no legal regulations. Don't play with the Constitution. Keep legal regulations, and if you want to change them try to ensure that it changes in a regular, legal and legitimate way. It is true that this is one of the most difficultly variable constitutions in the modern world. I am personally in favour of removing from the Constitution a provision that the constitution can only be changed by a referendum. In my opinion, a two-thirds majority is enough to change the constitution. However, at least one referendum must be scheduled to amend that provision that the constitution must be changed exclusively by a referendum. That one referendum must be scheduled. Secondly, this constitution also says that the state symbols are similar. Schedule a referendum on these provisions of the Constitution on flag change, coat of arms, anthem. If you offer the people good solutions, most citizens will go to the referendum. Tie up the referendum for some elections, and that will also be a motive for citizens to vote in the referendum. There is a way for citizens to convince themselves to go to the referendum. If you're in trouble and difficulty in carrying out a referendum on the Constitution, no one alive can judge where this will take us. Secondly, you would like to amend this constitutional provision on how to amend the constitutional text by some version of the constitutional law. It can't. Material law contains only the constitution. The constitutional law can only contain the procedural right to apply the constitution, but never contrary to the provisions concerning material rights. The constitutional law cannot change the content of the constitution. It could have been under Tito, but you're not going to call on that precedent from 1953, when Tito was changing the Constitution by constitutional law. I don't suppose that's your reputation model. Stay away from that. Furthermore, you here say you will form a commission to prepare a law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You say the commission will have representatives of parliament proportionally, representatives of the government, the Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Coalition "Return", the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. Where is your democratic principle of division here? I can't have my grandmothers and frogs together. If the Nickel initiative is in parliament, by consensus of all parliamentary parties, it is enough to have 50 signatures of MPs and to join changes in the constitution. That's regular. Nowhere in the Constitution has the Constitutional Court been empowered to submit such an initiative, as well as the Supreme Court, or the Return Coalition. You're bringing the "Back" Coalition into the law, into the general legal act. What if tomorrow someone decides to shut down the Return Coalition? Nebojsa Covic and Rada Trajkovic are fighting again and the "Return" Coalition is leaving. If Rada Trajkovic asks for an extension of the apartment, right now, if she asks for four million more dinars, they're all breaking up. You can't play with the law that way. The "Return" coalition must not stand in the law, nor should the DOS coalition. You know how fast you two got in a fight. This must not stand in the general legal act, and this system general legal act. Secondly, with what you think you're about to prepare, you're actually tearing down the legal order, you're tearing down the state, you're opening Pandora's Box, no one knows what it can do to get out of that box and what consequences it can have. The constitution is democratic or non-democratic, primarily in its contents. In the world, there are examples of well-octrossed constitutions that have also had important democratic consequences. What is the Magna charta libertatum - it is the cornerstone of English constitutional law, it is the octroized constitutional text. What Bill of Rights is - the octrossed constitutional text, the extraordinary democratic legal consequences. There is no fundamental difference here between monarchy and the Republic. Here you act like an all-powerful monarch, but it's still in practice that law. The English are jealous of their constitutional and legal continuity. They don't have a single constitutional text, but they may have the most developed constitutional right in the world, because they're jealous of their constitutional and legal continuity, and you're all just trampling, discontinuity, discontinuity. Guys, hold on a second. The world didn't start from you. You're acting like Adam and Eve. It's all in front of them, the whole world, just to start working. Who among you is Adam and who is Eve, I will not enter into it. Politically, it's also seen by who's more moaning. Eva was always more yawning than Adam. So, I urge you to return to respect the Constitution, and then we are ready to talk, to participate in an initiative to change, to determine first what is not good in this constitution, because there are things that are not good, which in this constitution is not in agreement with the Constitutional Charter, and we are prepared to talk about it, but we are not prepared to discuss the anti-constitutional way of changing constitutional order. We don't accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26317	Right on line, proposing representative, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26318	Mr. Seselj, by his own good custom, is trying to create an illusion of expertise. It's not about constitutional discontinuity, because it's absurd to talk about the laws staying somewhere in the air or that it ceases to exist in the legal order. Of course there is either vacatio legis, transitional and final provisions, mechanisms that cover all other laws arising from the Constitution. What Mr. Seselj claims about totalitarianity and authority - don't lecture us. A multi-party from the 1990s in Serbia was farce. As someone who participated in this moment in this regime, you flatter yourself if you claim it was a multiparty system. As regards the discrepancies and the lack of bad consequences as a result of the non-compliance of the federal and republican constitution, remember the situation when the Federal Constitutional Court challenged those provisions of the Republic Constitution relating to the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic in the event of a war or a direct war threat and that the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court was not enforceable. So the highest constitutional instance in this country was not in a position to challenge the decision. Whether it reflects the consistency of the legal system, you explain it as a general defense doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26319	This was a replica. Right on the line, MP dean mihail.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26320	Formerly, the international and legal continuity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been questioned in relation to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It was just the membership that was achieved in the United Nations after 5 October that provided the international and legal continuity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the involvement of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in all international institutions and organisations. In this way, we have ensured the validity of many international contracts, which were still signed by the Kingdom of Serbia, which were transferred from country to country, and that is how the international and legal continuity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro was ensured. In this way, we allowed this country to be a member of all international organisations and to function equally in them, not to be those from that community, a state that was bombed (without entering the facts of how and why we were bombed); simply, in this way, it was all done and I think it is something positive and should not be condemned, because we thus preserved the state from what was waiting for the new countries that joined after the destruction of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26321	You have no right to a replica. Based on what replica? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: He misread the exposition of the predecessor. It's not your exposure. Mr. Mihajlov received a replica of the presentation of MP Vojislav Seselj. There's a closed circle He can't replica on a replica. [[Tomislav Nikolic, from the site: I am looking for a replica of Mr. Michael's presentation.]] (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: He can? ) He can because MP Vojislav Seselj challenged the right to replication. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I am not Vojislav Seselj. I see you're not. Are any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? Please, MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26322	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't have the habit of rallying for the assembly speaker, although I admit that I have a lot of my work. That doesn't allow me to have my parliamentary experience, and I don't allow for the serious years that I have. Of course, since I always say interesting things, I hope you'll be careful and listen to what I say. Some who have not learned something will have the opportunity to learn. For some who won't learn, maybe every attempt is hopeless. We need to determine this: the current Constitution of Serbia is anachron, overcome and harmful to the expected constitutional reform. It is true that the executive power is well-delegited to carry out such reforms, because it enjoys the illegal support of the illegal assembly majority in this House. The need for a new constitution is simply imperative. Discontinuity with the previous communist regime, with previous constitutional solutions, is also necessary. I remember in 1990, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was passed, there was a great dilemma in the public whether the elections and the constitution or the constitution were then elections. It is true that some of your opposers at the time also advocated the solution that the existing communist congregation would adopt such a constitution. The constitution is somewhat later symbolized by a referendum. I suppose it was the people's will that the constitution would receive people's support. I have no reason to doubt that, although I admit that there were certain euphoric circumstances in which it was done. Of course it was done under certain national tension. At that time, as representative of the joint opposition to Serbia in my city, I visited the polling stations. The main observation was that polling stations were decorated with communist symbols. There was a five-point stand and now above the National Assembly president's desk, but it does not stand across the street, above the former Karadjordjevic court. I don't understand what was taken off at night when the communists put a five-pointer in the day. I don't understand why she was removed from the former court of Obrenovic during the day, and during the night of the former court of Karadzic. Did the hearts of the neocommunist freeze that night when they lost that symbol? Because of continuity, it might be good to have that five-pointer back, etc. If we want to talk about it, take off this five-pointer, Mrs. Micic, above the presidency, take off the five-pointer and your cabinet. You're advised to take that five-pointer home, leave her in a place you like most. Store it wherever it can use it. She's hurting right now. If we're talking about discontinuity, we had to take care of it. The best way to reach constitutional discontinuity is to establish a constitutional congregation. In 2000, there may have been circumstances after the five - october coup that the existing congregation was declared a constitutional assembly. I remind you, the country's last constitutional assembly in Serbia, i.e. in the communist Yugoslavia, was after the 11 November 1945 elections, but then revolutionaries stole the people's will. There was one box for Broz and there was one box for the monarchy, which they called the "lock box", so when the "lock box" was much harder than the one for the monarchy, only the Ubba agents came in and overstretched. There's a difference now, though. This excess in this House doesn't seem quite as impregnable as it is, but roughly with the same consequences. Let me get back to the subject. So to create constitutional discontinuity, the best thing would be to now organise elections for the constitutional assembly, if the deadlines of October 5th have moved away. Some, however, have also betrayed the ideals of the petoctobar revolution. That's why the October 6th movement is the right solution, to return to the original principles and to the original DOS. New Serbia is for the constitutional and parliamentary monarchy. For this reason, a referendum would indeed have to verify the people's will, to determine whether the people's mood is to establish a monarchy in the country of Serbia. That continuity would then, of course, be with the Kingdom of Serbia within its historical boundaries. Once again, if we want to really behave, as serious people, we have to strive for it. So there is a solution to the constitutional problem. Discontinuity with the previous communist rule is needed. It is provided by elections for a constitutional assembly. The Constitutional Assembly brings the constitution and proclaims it. After that, Serbia returns to the community of democratic peoples and states. In any case, if even this commission is a solution that will pass the constitutional law on the amendment of the constitution, then we will support such a solution. What we will not be satisfied with is the pace and dynamics that would bring these new constitutional laws to the constitution. There is once again one flaw - if the existing Constitution were to be adapted to the Constitutional Charter voted in this House, and it seems to me that the Constitutional Charter is limited to three years, then, by the logic of things, we conclude that this sad constitution of our sad country would also be a limited duration. We really want Serbia's constitution to be eternal, such as the Magna charta libertatum, which Professor Seselj spoke of.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26323	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? There's no sign-ins. ) We are continuing a unique search on the proposal for a decision to set up a committee to prepare the law on the amendments to the Constitution. According to applications for the word of the MPs, the first to be declared is MP Milos Lukic, a member of the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26324	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say a few words about the proposal for a decision on the education of committees to prepare legislation on the amendment of the Constitution. It is the way and the process of changing the Constitution. Obviously, there's something wrong with starting with making this decision. In fact, we received this material at the very session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. So we didn't have a few minutes to look at it. Then, most MPs also know that the material was practically obtained today, as it has been in MPs' clubs since yesterday. It brings a certain dilemma at the very beginning of what is actually wanted and why it is done in this way. It is a general assessment of us in the Soviet Union, and most MPs, that this is actually the first step in changing the Constitution. If that's true, and I haven't heard any of the reasons so far that it isn't, questions are being asked that must be answered before joining this business, before this commission is established. We are told that the broadest consensus on this issue has been reached. If so, if the widest consensus is reached in this assembly and in the professional public, etc., there is no reason at all to ignore at least one part the provisions of the old Constitution, which is the part contained in Articles 132 and 134 where a two-thirds majority is required for the decision to amend the Constitution. Since this is actually the first step in changing the Constitution here, we in the Soviet Union think that at least in the beginning we should show this unity of desire to change the Constitution and that we should go to the two-thirds majority. In reason of this decision, we have several contradictions. I wouldn't give in much, but it's about harmonising with the Constitutional Charter. We know very well that the Constitutional Charter was brought, that it was brought to the supra-almost, and in one way that surely when the Constitutional Charter was adopted, no broadest consensus was reached. However, it is now an initial act on the basis of which we are making a change to the Constitution. If we form this commission by a supremacy majority or a simple majority, then the Constitution can end up being adopted by a simple majority. The issue of respect for the authority of the highest legal act is also being raised as a dilemma. In fact, in the two-year practice of this parliament, we have repeatedly called on this constitution and we have repeatedly listened to the representatives of the authorities as they are very firey from this pay phone to the Constitution of Serbia. However, when it was not necessary, it happened that the most ugly words were spoken for that constitution, as if it were not God’s letter and that it was not necessary to apply it, etc. The ugliest thing we could hear about the reasoning is that it actually has to change the way the Constitution changes, because Kosovo is not part of Serbia, it is not technically possible to hold a referendum on Kosovo and Metohija territory. Surely it irritates those people who are displaced and who cannot return to their homes and cannot achieve even the minimum of their human rights. I think they still deserve much more attention than one item in reason for making this decision. The question is also asked, if everything is so correct and if such a broad consensus has been reached, is this relationship with the number of members of the Commission realistic and whether we will not be in a position for the opposition to be only a decor on this committee, as well as later probably in the commission for the making of the constitution and in other bodies that should participate in the change of the Constitution. This all assumes that the procedure for amending the Constitution will be implemented under the pressure of this present majority, which is very lax and is obviously artificial. Again, given that we are pressed by deadlines, another dilemma is being put in place and the danger that someone on the side, at the end, in the teat, when there is no more time, is serving one constitution that we will have to accept with one shrewd explanation. I repeat once again that the position of the Soviet Union is that at least this first step in changing the Constitution should achieve a two-thirds majority in this assembly. That's our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26325	The word is by MP Stevo Dragisic, followed by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26326	Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of right involves three ideas: the idea of justice, purpose and legal certainty. On the basis of these three ideas, three basic features of the right or one legal act are also defined, which are its form, contained and binding force. You in the way you want to change the Constitution, what's obvious at first sight, you're tearing down that third principle of legal certainty. In fact, you deprive this future constitution of its binding importance. As for the form of law, you will provide form. Some congregation will bring and vote a general act called the Constitution. He'll have a form. The content will be consistent with your political interests, your ideology, your views on political problems. Legal certainty cannot provide for either the majority, or the will, or anything that would be in line with your interests, if you bring a new constitution past the procedure provided for by the Constitution that you want to change. The question is, do you want to change the whole constitution? Bring a new one? Do you want to change some of the provisions of this constitution, and you can do it in some other way? Apparently, according to what's been said in public for two years now, according to what some of your representatives of these or those parties are making public, this is about the adoption of a new constitution. You're saying that the constitution of a new state community points to a different process of changing the Constitution. You have six months to bring a new constitution. It can't be the reason for breaking the Constitution. All right, we need to coordinate and we have one problem. The existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be brought into line with the new legal situation. You have a six-month deadline. That doesn't mean we need to tear this constitution apart now and start over. It doesn't say the Constitutional Charter of this new state community that the old constitution should now be thrown out and brought new ones. He says, six months is your deadline. You deliberately misjudge the concepts and say -- now we have to start over, because that's what the Constitutional Charter says. That's not what the Constitutional Charter says. She just leaves a six-month deadline. You say it will be a problem to organise a referendum, there may not be a two-thirds majority, there will not be enough citizens interested to attend the referendum. What does that mean? This means that you first need to understand that you do not pass a budget law, that no tax laws or legislation on your own transformation or any other law the opposition must be obliged to have objections and must vote against. We need to bring a new constitution now. A constitution that should be in force for 100, 200, 500 years, as this country exists, so that in these future centuries it may be upgraded, perfected, as some serious Western countries do. For 200 years, some amendments have made their constitution. And to get to such a constitution, you as a government that wants to call yourself serious, you should now tell all relevant political forces in the country to sit at the table and to adopt an act that would be considered a compromise of all political parties and be the product of the current wishes of all political parties in Serbia, which could provide a sufficient number of citizens in the referendum. If all relevant political parties, forces in this country were behind one draft constitution, then you would have no reason to fear whether this referendum would succeed or not. Then everyone would appeal to this referendum, it would be some general referendum; then it would be a formality, but we would be sure that some future government would not change that constitution, if it felt that it was not responding to its political interests. The constitution must not be an obstacle to political interests, as this constitution now poses a distraction to your political interests. The constitution is one framework in which Serbia needs to live politically for centuries. What is the guarantee that these provisions, which are in your new constitution, predicting the way it changes, will not be broken in this same way? Why would the future government be obliged to comply with the provisions on changing the new constitution? This will bring the constitution down to the category of one ordinary bill on budgets, or elections, or anything. In the end, let me tell you, on Sunday, at 6:00 in the Republic Square, there will be a rally organized by the SRS, which will escort Dr Vojislav Seselj on his way to The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26327	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26328	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems today that we are formally discussing the Constitution's amendment initiative, and in essence, we have no initiative to change the Constitution and no one has launched any initiative to change the Constitution to this day. Of course, if this is not the way to treat the Commission's education initiative for how the constitution will be changed. When it comes to the constitution itself, it is never disputed that the political party, the parliamentary group, even the citizens, launch an initiative to change the constitution, but it would be good, when it comes to forming a commission, to say the reason for changing the constitution, besides the discontinuity story, and especially those who probably, when they talk about discontinuity, forget that they have exercised power in the multi-party in the 23 municipalities since 1992, since 1996, in Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade. Belgrade has two million inhabitants, that's one state. Since 1996, the current government, and then the opposition, has exercised power in Belgrade without talking about Novi Sad, etc. Thus, it turns out that in all these municipalities there was a farce of democracy and that there was no multi-party. I don't think so, of course, but that comes from what's been said here. So we don't come from it, no matter how much we think and how much we don't see the reasons for changing the Constitution, that there are no legitimate jobs, rights and the need to launch an initiative to change the Constitution. But it would be correct if we here today in parliament heard, apart from the desire for discontinuity, what's wrong with this constitution, what needs to be changed, in which direction initiatives are going, whether the initiatives of these proposings (and who are the promoters) are going towards forming perhaps a parliamentary monarchy, because we have heard today that there is also a pledge, or to break the state again, now not to three, but to six parts, because here we are talking about what a referendum was. Well, it was a euphoria, related to the referendum, to support the constitution, but the basis of this euphoria was that the constitution implies Serbia's three-part unification and the formation of a united Serbia again. Is the current initiative, and does this initiative even exist, implies breaking Serbia and dividing not into three, but on six or more, I know how many parts? To even discuss the Commission's initiative, it would be important to know some basic postulates and basic elements for changing the constitution, in fact, who's behind it, who wants to change the constitution and who's proposing some initiatives. Of course, we don't have all that, but we leave space for a later story on who's going to be, here we go, to the very decision on the education of the commission to prepare the law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, it comes from changing the constitution and that, if the Commission is to propose an appropriate law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution, the law will not be in line with the current constitution. Does the Assembly have the right to accept that they vote in general on a law that is contrary to the Constitution, whether the President of the Assembly, i.e. The acting President of the Republic of Power and whether he has the right, to have the courage, as a judge, as a lawyer, to sign the law tomorrow, which we already know in advance, will obviously not be in accordance with constitutional authority. That story about us not being able to secure 50% of the outstretched doesn't stand at all. Of course, I remind you that when it comes to this previous two or three rounds of election for the President of the Republic, one number of voters is not counted in bonuses. If someone then made a decision that a number of voters did not count into a bonus, in terms of quorum, if we could say 51%, then that logic could be interpreted similarly for a change in the Constitution. So there's always a condition and a way out of it, if you really want to change the Constitution in a constitutional way. But if the constitution is to change in an unconstitutional way, and if at the beginning it starts with that it does not want to provide a two-thirds majority in parliament or a political consensus to change the constitution in Serbia, and thus by political parties, then the proposal for a decision on the education of the commission that we have. You see, only the education of the commission goes ahead from the government's mistrust to the parliamentary groups and towards the political mood of Serbian citizens. This is not the attitude of power and this is not the way to propose a commission of desire to get an expert opinion or an opinion of a wider circle of people. In fact, there is a desire here to make of 25 members of the commission to have the government of Serbia, or DOS within the government of the Republic of Serbia, have a minimum of 14 seats, plus one for which one is not understood, and plus two so-called. Independents. So, at the beginning, we want to secure the majority of this commission for a decision that may have already been prepared, when it comes to the law on changing the constitution. What's this about? This decision says that the commission is represented by representatives of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; of course, it will be someone from DOS, it is quite clear, because it will not vote for someone from the opposition. So, one. The Committee on Justice - second from DOS; the Legislative Committee - third from DOS; six DOS representatives by this decision of parliamentary political parties (I will return to it); three from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, are understood from DOS; the assembly of the AP, the majority of DOS, according to which the DOS; and the Coalition "Return" (on it I will say something special) - and it is DOS. When you add that up, it turns out that it's 14 out of 25 members of this committee, which should provide the proposal that the Assembly here needs to verify. Why does it come from mistrust, to whom this law should be proposed -- I guess to Parliament, I guess, to these MPs. If MPs are to be proposed a law amending the Constitution, even if we start from the fact that this House will accept two-thirds changes to the Constitution unconstitutionally, then there should be this attitude of parliamentary forces here. Who's gonna be in on it? It can even be said that they don't have to be MPs on that committee, there may be some out there. But the political parties in this parliament must be proportionately represented in the commission, if you sincerely want to make a constitution or if you want at least most Serbian citizens to support what you are proposing. In this way, in advance, you want to say that we are not interested in half of this Parliament, not even 60% of this Parliament, so we are interested in what 40% of parliament thinks, and those 40% have to provide here two-thirds of the commission itself. So you suggested the composition of this committee of 25 people. We're interested in working in all the bodies, but look at that nonsens, something that's completely insane: look, the SSJ has 13 MPs, or 14, 14 has exactly, one you stole, but anyway. So there's a member of the commission here. The non-existent parliamentary group, which has five so-called MPs, there's a member of the commission. The SPS is 37, or you say 32. With 37 MPs, or as you confess 32, two members of the commission are proposed. How can he do that? What makes you think that? How? You made a deal there, sat down, and assigned us two. Well, that's what you can determine for the board of directors, whether it's from the DSS and DOS. If we want to participate here, we will participate, but only if we determine the percentage, established, even if that percentage is with the recognised number of MPs in the republican parliament, not with the actual, how many SPS, 37. If that's 32, then it's 32, and you don't sit down and say-- well, we're going to be 14, you're going to have two, you're going to have one. Based on what? On what grounds does the parliamentary group here now, which has five MPs, have one representative? What? As an abstract story -- well, we decided to have one to secure most of it. So, at the beginning, it starts with a desire not to create any common position here, but to pre-vote and provide the majority in the commission. And in the end, when it comes to the Return Coalition as a representative from Kosovo, you prevented voting in Kosovo in December; you said -- it is not safe. After a few months, when it took the Return Coalition to go to the polls, you said it was safe. It's safe for them. Then it is safe for the Kosovo parliament, and for the republican parliament it was not safe for Serbian citizens. You told the federal parliament - cancel, because Serbs were unable to vote until 20 hours rather than 17 hours. That's what happened. So, for the parliamentary elections for the Kosovo Parliament, that the Return Coalition provided MPs, it was safe and that's fine. As an SPS, we have MPs in parliament from Kosovo and Metohija, and if you don't have it, it's your problem. We do. The vice president of the Serbian Parliament is from Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, if someone should be from Kosovo and Metohija, then who is more legitimate than the MPs from Kosovo and Metohija in this republic's parliament. Well, they're going to represent that people and talk about it. Therefore, if you want and if you have a real and sincere intention to change the Constitution, then honestly approach it, not only legally but also respecting the will of the voters in the December 2000 elections and thus form a commission that should work on this. Otherwise, everything else is one farce you want to make in front of the citizens of Serbia, as -- you want to democratisation and democratic change of the Constitution, and you essentially want to be able to write it here with 124 MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26329	The People's MP Dragan Marsican has the word, and after him, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26330	Dear viewers, respected citizens of Serbia, what is called the assembly long ago has not and is not a legislative body in the sense that the current, existing constitution says. This is the same inside as what's on the outside, and look what it looks like on the outside, so you'll know what it's like on the inside. Why is that? (votes: Theme) And that's the theme. Because this is where it's stolen in the vote. Mr. Novakovic will know best. That's a lovely smile. [[Laughter]] The other funny thing is that you're misusing MP cards and that you were in Thessaloniki when your vote for passing the Labour Act here was printed on the document and it's called, Mr. Novakovic, stealing, and the one who steals is a thief. And there's no offense. If anyone knows the other expression for whoever steals it, let them tell me and I'll use it. But another name for whoever steals doesn't exist. The one who steals is a thief. So if you ask me anything else, I'll be happy to answer. This is where the parliamentary mandates are stolen. The one who steals is a thief. There is a part of political organized crime here in this assembly, because if mandates are stolen, then we have an organized political gang here. This is where laws are passed, such as the Law on Electoral MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, whose only goal is to impair the previously committed lawlessness by stealing parliamentary mandates. Here sits Mr. Ristic, who does not belong as the chairman of the Administrative Committee on this committee, and I suppose it will be, because he is before him a place where he speaks publicly, and he is obliged to respect the law - that the law will not be respected, and should go; and there he will be housed and taken care of by those who today are lawless in Serbia. So, today, nothing, no sign of the division of power to legislative, executive and judicial, of the principle on which the democratic state rests or democracy cannot be. And you know it all very well. This assembly is therefore simply an extended hand of the Republic Government or the rest of the Republic Government or DOS. So, what does this so-called thing do today? The congregation, what will it do today? It will be exposed to one new, of course, political, banditism, by making a decision on the education of the commission to prepare the law on how to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Madam Chairman, I hear some kikots here. [[Laughter]] Thank you for calming them down. So what we're dealing with here today is the sudden awakened Zoran Djindjic, who between the two football matches, and that's when someone runs a lot of reform, suddenly remembered Kosovo, even has classified information that says they've shown him where it is on the map. Then after two years of obstruction of the new constitution, he recalled that Serbia's new constitution is important to roll quickly and quickly. [[growls]] Without it, there is no reform, without it no democratisation of Serbia, without it there is no, said Zoran Djindjic, the construction of institutions, without it no entry of Yugoslavia, i.e. Serbia-Montenegro communities in the European community of peoples, etc. And so on, he suddenly remembered. Just a year ago, the right of the DSS and others concerned with the constitution and the need to adopt a new Serbian constitution was disputed. And the story and procedure is standard -- we heard it here from one MP, the president of one parliamentary group -- in the same way that it was done with the Constitutional Charter; therefore -- obstruction, and then the grinding and roll of an act, the consequences of which will be seen in the coming years. In the same way, it is now: two years are being obstructed by the adoption of a new constitution, then it is said -- well, whatever you want, you've been talking for two years, you two, that you need to bring it quickly, now you have an act, let's adopt it right now, and that you won't vote for it -- you're holding down the reform process. Well, that's all right, gentlemen. You're on your own. You're on your own. Where are your reforms for God's sake? Where are they? Irregularity. That's right. That's right. That's right. You have power and enjoy the fruits of the election. So we received an act that, to the shame of this congregation and its promoter, does not correspond to the title by content. If this is really an act that represents a decision on the education of the Commission to prepare the laws on how and procedure of change... It's nice out there... [[growls]] The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then I don't know what point 3 is that the commission will hire experts on constitutional law and co-operate with international organisations that can provide expert assistance in harmonisation with European law and standards. So someone's lying here. Either the title is not true or it is also a lie, or this is actually a decision to form a commission that will access the writing of a new constitution, because if this commission is formed within eight days, as the proposal stands, and the deadline from the date of adoption until the adoption of the bill is 15 days, then I don't know, believe me, how it will consult and harmonize and what to harmonize, anyway, for the remaining seven days. So obviously it was an intention one, so it wasn't a well-cleaned text, and I am deeply convinced that this will actually turn into a committee that will write the constitution. That's why its composition is the same as it is, without any criteria, or a single criterion, which is that of these 25 members, the two-thirds majority have DOS or those who will listen to Mr. Prime Minister unspeakably. We can already see the names and Mr. Jovanovic has suggested that we deal with the composition here in particular. I assume that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be the best known from that committee, Mrs Natasa Micic, because it has already shown what a relationship to the Constitution has and how much it knows, how much it respects it. As far as the Justice and Administration Committee is concerned, I assume it will be represented by Mr Hiber, a representative of the Civil Union of Serbia, who has the same attitude with Mr Seselj, with the Serbian Radical Party, in terms of amending the Constitution. We participated together a year ago in a show and the same arguments that we heard here today was Mr Hiber, arguing that when you change the procedure for adopting a new constitution, you make one legal vacuum, that this ceases to apply all the legal regulations that have been passed under the old Constitution, that it is simply unacceptable, inadmissible, that the country is entering chaos. Of course, Mr. Seselj is consistent. Mr. Hiber it is not, so Mr. Hiber will very easily implement all the new needs of the rest of the DOS. For the history of little full consent in an important issue between the Civil Union of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party. As for the Legislative Committee - I suppose Mr Pajtic, and he has already proved by the quality of this proposal how much his legal knowledge is. Mr. Ristic is likely to leave a group of MPs as a man who really needs to be in prison rather than in any committee of the National Assembly, for refusing to make arguments. Don't be surprised, because whoever refuses to enforce the law, and it's his duty to execute it, I think he's committing a crime. Of course, it's a matter of judicial authorities to assess if I'm right. This is my political position. You have the right to a replica, but first of all confirm, please, that you will not enforce the existing law until the Constitutional Court's decision has been passed, and the law that is now in force until the Constitutional Court's decision. If you can explain that to someone, I'll look forward to it. As for the Constitutional Court of Serbia -- possibly Mr. Ciplic, a senior official of the Democratic Party, who celebrated his views on the withdrawal of office, those mandates of the stolen Democratic Party of Serbia, which were finally returned there sometime in October. But other views and opinions were written, publicly expressed by one of the members of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, Mr. Ciplic, who respects not the rules of profession and rights, the law and the constitution, but only the views and party tasks of his party. So that's how it works with this act. It's toying with the constitution, and whoever's playing with the constitution is playing with the state and who's suggesting that this way and from this day forward a new constitution must be aware that the constitution cannot last longer than those who have decided to make it in such a way, and that means very briefly. The constitution should be as long as it is a long state. Not as long as it takes a temporary and irresponsible government. How should a new constitution be brought in to be valid, lasting, respected, applied? The proposal should be followed by the Democratic Party of Serbia. There is complete agreement, this is the only chance that we will all agree on today (except for representatives of the Serbian Radical Party) and this is the opinion of experts known to constitutional law, that a new constitution cannot be adopted under the existing constitutional procedure. It is worth reminding of the failure of the voter lists. A decision should be made by a two-thirds majority. This, of course, I don't tell the MPs, but I tell the viewers who I've been talking to all the time and I'm showing respect to this occasion. A two-thirds majority in the Assembly can be provided if serious talks are conducted through the commission to deal with the issue, but with the current state of the electoral lists and the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Serbia-Montenegro community, it is simply not possible for such a constitution to get half of the voters enrolled in the voter lists. As this is of course not possible, as the electoral lists are not correct, as Milosevic has wronged them, and "greeded" Zoran Djindjic, according to the existing constitutional procedure, and this is the general assurance of all the experts involved in this matter, the constitution cannot be brought. Therefore, from the very moment of the adoption and establishment of a new procedure for the change of the Serbian Constitution, there must be full legitimacy of the decisions that will continue to take place. In order for this to exist, we believe that this decision on the establishment of a commission that will deal with the writing of the constitution, and also an integral part of the way to propose, and to make decisions on how to amend the constitution is adopted, that is to say, by a two-thirds majority. As was formed by the commission, as was the case in writing the Constitutional Charter, and a commission that will deal with the writing of a new Serbian constitution must decide on a two-thirds majority. The composition of the commission, which will write Serbia's new constitution, should be proportionate to the composition of this assembly, but at the moment it was legal and legitimate, when it expressed the electoral will of the citizens, and not today when the votes of Serbian citizens are disguised, election boxes have been broken, votes stolen, and when this assembly no longer has legitimacy. So, proportionate to the composition of this January 2000 assembly. Also, when the proposal for Serbia's constitution is thus established, it should be adopted in the Serbian Parliament by a two-thirds majority. It is some minimum without which it is not possible to ensure respect for Serbia's new constitution. And if we have a state, if the constitution is brought violently, as many things are brought in the Assembly, which is no longer, violently, brutally, by political tyranny of an artificial and unlawfully created majority, then it will have the fate of the present Constitution -- it will not be respected, it will be broken and thus the country will continue to sink into... That's right, which is where the good work is today. You may not know it, but when you have a hunger march, then they know about how things are, and you're not hungry, and that's why you're saying it. Neither did I, but that's what I'm saying. There's a difference between us, which I know something, which you don't know anything about, and what you forgot, you fell asleep here and you have no idea. You failed all the ideas and ideals of October 2000. You sold your faith for dinner. You sold yourself for a little privilege, for a little function, for a little bit of money. (Nenad Bogdanović, from the place: Enough more.) ) There will be plenty in the elections, and then the citizens of Serbia, not some hysterics from this booth, today with broken legs, will determine who will go to sleep, who will go to the political past, because only the citizens of Serbia can determine it, and you, Mr. Bogdanovic, watch what you build in the park in front of the City Assembly. Nenad Bogdanović, from the scene: How are you not ashamed, you son of a bitch? I have a right to eat because you're destroying this country, and I don't care. No, it's not mine, because she's nobody's, and this is the right parliament to have a dialogue, and you think she's someone's supposed to be. She can't be anyone's. So this is the way and way that we think we need to bring a new constitution of Serbia in order to really ensure this full legal discontinuity, constitutional discontinuity with the previous regime, so that the new constitution, democratically, Europeanly, begins to build institutional foundations of the new state and that Serbia will finally become a legal and democratic state, which is nothing more than two years ago today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26331	National MP Dragan Marsicanin, based on Article 102 and for violation of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give a measure of other reminders. National MP Nenad Bogdanovic, the basis for the replica, mentioned directly in the presentation of MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26332	Honorable Members of Parliament, in any address to the Assembly, any public need a man to have a measure, he should have a home education, he should have a human education, he should have sobriety, he should have a lot of things. It's just amazing for me that a man allows himself to speak in this way as my predecessor used to say. For what he called me, I think it would be my turn to call or ask his colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia to ask the vice president of the Assembly, who is sitting in front of him, who is working with us, to ask the members of the City Government. I'm sorry he had to go down to the level of some others. I don't build anything and I've never built anything in my life. I'm doing my job. I do it as best I can, and in the end, the public will evaluate. But to be offended in this way, it really does not suit anyone or the representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the former president of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26333	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26334	The Honorable Chairman, I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. It states in article 99 that during the speech of a MP or another participant in the debate, no interruption and discard is allowed. If you have warned Mr. Marcian because he has taken a step with certain MPs, before you have to warn those MPs who are constantly getting out of these benches and only then would your decision be justified and legitimate. So, I'm making an observation, and I'm asking that the Administrative Committee make a statement about the warning you gave to Mr. Marsican, and in the future, if you want to be strict about speakers who speak, maybe something that you don't like and which is contrary to your political attitude, I remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you have to warn those who earn, because only then can we restore the reputation of this assembly, which has been gone for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26335	The MP would have to have information that the discretionary powers that the chairman has are not the subject of breach of the Rules of Procedure. All those who have listened to the speech of Parliamentarian Dragan Marsicanin I think they have found enough grounds for violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for disrespecting the National Assembly, so as not to quote all that is said in the speech. The MP is not interrupted because it is the work of the chairman of the National Assembly to assess when the speaker conducting the debate at the speaker intends to produce the incident, and when the speaker wants to make a good contribution to the debate in the National Assembly. It's the authority of the chairman. The Administrative Board, if you are looking for it, can be scheduled to assess whether you are right when you claim, by the Rules of Procedure, that the discretionary powers of the chairman represent a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Administrative Board? A new violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26336	Article 99 left you absolutely no discretionary right. You should allow the MP to speak uninterruptedly from this pay phone and there is no discretionary right to decide which tossing it may or may not interfere with. It is said here that during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. You didn't make it possible. You sanctioned an MP who spoke without sanctioning those who interfered. There's absolutely no discretionary right to decide if someone's throwing is one or the other. The Administrative Board, if it discusses this, and I expect it to discuss it, should look at and review the recording of Mr. Marsican's speech and hear that there have been discards and that, in accordance with Rule 99, it should be sanctioned by those MPs who have disrupted it, because it is only in accordance with this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26337	A warning about a violation of article 100 is given by the chairman of the National Assembly. The statement of the notice is the discretionary authority of the chairman. All types of measures that are imposed on the basis of violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are discretionary powers of the chairman. With the conclusion that you have repeated your failure to give a new breach to the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to continue your work today, with an attempt to respect the Rules of Procedure, not to violate it, even at the time you advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Petar Jojic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26338	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, adopting and changing the Constitution are too serious. In order to be approached in this way, the Proposer would have to, without delay, withdraw this proposal because it does not comply with the current Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed in Articles 132 and 133. I'll read them, remind myself of what these members of the constitution read. Article 132: "The proposal for a change of the Constitution can be submitted by at least 100,000 voters, at least 50 MPs, the President of the Republic and the Government. The proposal for a change of constitution is decided by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs." Article 133: "The National Assembly adopts an act amending the Constitution by a two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs and puts it on a republican referendum to confirm. The Act of Change of the Constitution is considered to be finally adopted if more than half of the total number of voters is declared to be responsible for it in a republican referendum." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see here changed circumstances. What are these changed circumstances? They're objective nature. First of all, the MPs, and the proponent who suggested that such a decision be made, had in the first place lost voter support, lost citizens' support. You ladies and gentlemen cannot secure a two-thirds majority in parliament either. Remember, I'm sure, at least as the people say and how things are going in practice now and what the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia think about the current government and its effect, that you must not go out and run away from the elections and from the referendum as "a cat about hot porridge". Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendments to the Constitution are not amendments to the law on hunting and fishing or to the law on wine and brandy. The change in the Constitution requires conditions for the constitution to change. This looks like a blow to the constitutional arrangement. On the other hand, the amendments to the Constitution under these circumstances which are currently in the Republic of Serbia must only be implemented and exclusively how members 132 and 133 standardise it. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The world is known to be a solid, flexible, or elastic constitution. We bring the constitution for a longer period of time. Not all the necessary conditions have been met to change this constitution. I would not like to talk about the things that Professor Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS, has been a respected professor with tens of them taking exams, not only pre-war training, but also Constitutional Law, Labour Law, International Private Law, International Public Law, Obligation and Not to List. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I was met today by a council member from the current government, from a DOS party, Jojic, says I am preparing a group of my party members who will arrive on Sunday 23 February at 1800 hours in the Square of the Republic of Belgrade, to escort the only principled politician and the greatest Serb of all time in The Hague, who will defend Serbia, Professor Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26339	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26340	Ladies and gentlemen, today on the agenda, we have one technical issue at first sight, and this is the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee for the Preparation of Laws on the Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The same constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been trampled countless times by something of your own free will, by some will of those who give you orders, but you've brought the omnibus, the Shinobus laws, you've passed labour laws, and the old Roman proverb says - the more laws, the greater lawlessness, in which you have not taken any account of the letter of this constitution, so that today a so-called ". the technical issue, and essentially the most important issue in one country, the issue of changing the highest act of a state, the constitution. Without any debate as to whether a change in the Constitution is needed, without any debate on whether this change is being made in the Constitution, provided for by Articles 132 and 133 of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is said that today we should make a decision on the education of the Committee for the Preparation of Laws for the Amendment of the Constitution. As if there is no more work in Serbia today and there will be honey and milk in Serbia, companies will start working, workers will start working, there will be 800,000, 900,000, millions of unemployed, fees will start to drop, electricity will be cheaper, everything will be better, only if this constitution does not exist. Okay, if so, let's see how you predict to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for which you have no consensus of all political entities on the Serbian scene. However, this perfidious way is probably designed in the same kitchen that came up with Carrington's proposal for so-called in the early 1990s. The settlement of the former republics of the SFRY, then the Badinter Commission, then the Dayton Agreement and finally Rambuya. So, from the same kitchen that came up with in 2000 a dubious scenario for bringing you, gentlemen of the DOS, came this initiative to avoid a concrete issue of changing the Constitution under Articles 132 and 133 of this Constitution, but to form a commission that will act as a law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's another popular act of will again. Under the current provisions, as we have heard many times, but I will repeat, the proposal to change the Constitution can only be submitted by at least 100,000 voters, at least 50 MPs, the President of the Republic (which we do not have) and the Government. If you think you have the will and desire of all political entities, you could have proposed, the government could have, iv.d. The President of the Republic, at least 50 MPs, could have collected 100,000 signatures and put a motion to change the Constitution to a referendum to check the people's will on the issue of changing the Constitution. However, you are aware that the change of the Constitution will not go that way, for the people do not want it. You've come up with another way that, according to what we heard today, the suspension of constitutional and political continuity. If you wanted to make this proposal democratically, and you didn't, you could have chosen a democratic way, one that was only possible, or in these amendments to the Constitution or by calling elections for a constitutional assembly. In the election, you'd say, in a folk jargon, "square like rattles", so it doesn't occur to you to call any elections or elections for a constitutional assembly. In these elections that would be called, the parties would declare what constitutional solutions should be made for them, whether or not the Constitution should be amended, and voters would declare in the elections for the constitutional assembly which solutions and which parties give their trust. There'd be an end to the legal galamatias who, apparently, is here in force. However, as I said a few days ago in my discussion, by forming a state community, which is not, Serbia-Montenegro, conditions have been acquired that the legal galatias in which we are located or the legal papacy is only further cooked, only further complicated. Why? It is simply because, if a state is formed based on the interference of numerous foreign factors and foreign politicians who have advocated imposing on us some solutions that they think are good, without absolutely asking what he thinks about it, it is now coming to the point that, on the basis of the Constitutional Charter or of its Article 65, if I remember correctly, the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or of the Member States must be made to comply with the provisions of the Charter. This same article in 65 does not specify whether a comprehensive new constitution will be passed, whether all provisions of the current constitutions will have to be repealed, or whether certain provisions of the applicable constitutions will only have to be brought into line with the Constitutional Charter that has been passed on in an unmanly manner, in a non-democratic manner and with the will of those from abroad who have written it to you and who have brought it to you. Exactly, with the intention of achieving the goals that led you to power with help from abroad, we now have a very perfiduous mechanism for changing the Republic Constitution. So, a commission is formed, and you from opposition parties, if you want to participate in the process and control the process of changing the Constitution that will be evident, because there is no question here whether the Constitution should be changed, but the Constitution will be changed, take part in the extent to which this participation is offered to you in this law on the education of the Committee for the Preparation of the Change of the Constitution. If you don't want to, don't take part, because that's what you want. So, basically take or leave, but changes to the Constitution will be. We come to the fact that the people's will is once again ignored and that another way is to avoid what cannot be avoided, which is to call the election. As well as extending the DOS power to be maintained in suspicious ways and with the dubious provision of the majority in this House. Everything seems to be, as long as it doesn't come to a choice. Rest assured, there will be an election, even if it's a day sooner or a day later. You will have to admit that indeed this assembly and this relationship in the Republic Parliament do not reflect the mood of the people. You'll have to call the election sometime. Until then, the SPS will not be in favour of such a proposal for a decision on the education of the law-making committee on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because of everything mentioned in my presentation and what was heard in the presentations of MPs from the SPS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26341	The People's MP Dragan Jocic has the word, followed by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26342	Dear Members of Parliament, we have this decision ahead of us. I received it, though, today. It's one of the reasons why such important action proposals are being delivered quite late. It seems to me that the very name of the text, or the name of the decision, is not well done, because it cannot be a commission to prepare the law, but a commission to prepare the bill. Historically and politically, we are in a completely different continuity than we were before 2000. It is quite true that the state's interest is to make a new constitution. We have simply heard from all the speakers today that this constitution is not good. He was brought long ago. We need to bring him in line with the Constitutional Command. It's our duty. It is absolutely impossible to claim that a legal act cannot be changed. We could be here when we bring a new constitution into it to integrate the provision that he can never change. How would they change it? We need to know that there has been a break in political continuity, and therefore a need to change the Constitution in this way. The referendum cannot be called because there are millions of voters who are not for Serbia with its components, and you know who I mean. It just can't be done and it has to be done this way. What's west for the eyes is whether or not we should make a change to the Constitution than this one. I don't understand why this decision would be taken to determine a commission and why one of these laws would be passed. It seems to me that even the look of authority at this law reveals the intensity of the ruling majority above all, or, to be concrete, executive authorities, to establish a commission that will be completely charred, broad, not only to write this law (which I don't know how to qualify, is neither constitutional law, since the constitutional law should come after the adoption of a constitution), but also the very norms that are material, which are written by the constitution, which determine both the authorities and the fate of the state to justify. I must say that if the ad hoc commission needed to create the Constitutional Charter was made as it is, because of the political consensus of those who wanted, those who did not want, those who did not know what they wanted from the common state, had to be made. I do not see here the need for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to be made by the commission of this composition. I must say that the Constitutional Charter Commission, no matter what we think of the Constitutional Charter and no matter what we think of its work, was composed of those who bear the legitimacy of the people, and these are MPs. The composition of this committee doesn't promise that. The Commission is composed of all legislative authorities. It was said here that it was going to find a general consensus between the government, judges, parliament. However, when writing such a constitution, the consensus can only be between those who are the holders of the government, which are the national representatives, MPs and parties who have mandates in this assembly. Therefore, a consensus only between political authorities bearers, not a consensus between the broadest groups. If there is already a real discontinuity and if the previous government has brought such a complicated procedure that the Constitution simply cannot change, not counting that referendum, it seems to me that this government is bringing together a complicated composition to achieve the majority for the concept of the constitution according to the government. It is this first step that hints at the whole procedure that goes after it, as someone here said, that for the first time in political history we will have a clear constitution by the government or, if you will, the first man of that government, which is the prime minister of this country. If we're looking at the entire composition of this committee, I simply don't understand the difference between the representatives of the board and the MPs. I'd like someone to answer that. Why is it that individual representatives of the board are taken out to be part of the committee, and then, as a second category or subcategories, they will also be MPs, and then the government is eventually put in place, and then the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, will eventually hire experts. Why are the representatives of the Supreme Court and why are the representatives of the Constitutional Court, if we have experts? Unless someone's gonna fill in the number that's here, 25. I remember the prime minister, Mr Djindjic, when the Constitutional Charter Commission was created that he said at number 27 - this group would not be able to make a menu either. If we go after it, why didn't they lead or the government didn't run that section to make a smaller, more scrawny, more efficient commission? To the side that the commission of all these people cannot exist. What will executive power do in making a constitution unless it suggests solutions to the majority of the government's survival. I'm starting to assume, and you're saying rightly, this is the law. This isn't the law either, this is the law's decision. The Commission that does this law will also remain for the making of the Constitution. The second thing - a commission is educated with the task that, in accordance with Articles 132, 133, 134. etc., and I don't see what's in line with these members, and this decision is proposed. I do not see that the initiative in the future for a change in the Constitution will be proposed by 50 MPs. At least that's not what I suspect. I don't see that there's going to be an act about changing the Constitution. I don't see it being decided by a two-thirds majority at all. It's all those things that stay pretty, pretty deep. It seems to me that we need a logical order, if we want to change the Constitution in this way and if we want to respect this historic moment, because we simply violate the procedure provided for in the Constitution and establish a new one. That procedure has to be as normal as that. I think MPs must initiate an act on amending the Constitution, with a certain majority, I think that the act must be declared by the National Assembly, that the National Assembly must make a commission of MPs, with the percentage of how they won the mandates in 2000. After all, we can join them experts who can talk to us to suggest; this commission of MPs must submit a proposal to change the Constitution to this assembly. Anything else, I repeat, represents an octroized constitution, or a government-by-government constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26343	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the government's intention to change the constitution in an anti-constitutional way to bring to the Charter, which is intended to change the constitution, not by a two-thirds majority, as foreseen by the current constitution, but by an absolute majority. To the truth, I doubt that you can provide that absolute majority, because in the National Assembly of 23 MPs, as I have calculated, there is no longer that status and all decisions we make with such MPs, or citizens, who are here, by chance, by the will of the chairman or president of the Assembly, are illegal, and this decision we adopt, if it is made by the votes of these citizens, will also be illegal. But let's start with the decision itself, which is completely contradictory with the reasoning of the decision. I wonder if Mr. Pajtic wrote a motion for a decision or wrote an explanation, or maybe he didn't write either. Because point 1 states that an education committee with a task is to, in accordance with Articles 132, 133 and 134. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia proposes a law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the procedure of the Commission's work. And in its reasoning in paragraph 2, it is said that the constitution of the new state union of Serbia-Montenegro points to the possibility of a different process of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia from the procedure laid down in Articles 132 and 133. The constitution, which provides for a complicated procedure, which practically makes it impossible for the Constitution to change. Many have spoken here, but no one has convinced me that it is impossible to change the Constitution in a manner prescribed by the Constitution. It is likely impossible to pass the concept of Zorica Radovicili Ruzica Djindjic, but some concept acceptable to the people's representatives here, as legitimate representatives of their people, is certain to win the two-thirds majority. We agree that it may be necessary to change the contents of the Constitution in certain provisions, and we can also discuss it and agree, but we cannot agree with this procedure, and the motive for disrespecting the procedure provided for by the Constitution is that you cannot even go to the referendum to come out. Well, now you people have to call for cookies, the Republic Square, the people won't come out, because they'll think it's some kind of fraud. That way you can't interfere with the referendum, because the people won't change the Constitution like this. I'm sure the people won't continue to disperse the state, and I don't know how you think you're running the campaign, for example. If you wanted that referendum, you must have thought about it, it would be easier for you to keep it all under the Constitution. You didn't want to get around it, but you figured out what position you were in. You're not going to vote for a constitutional assembly, you're not allowed to hold a referendum, so let's go around, then a small door, and then someone on the committee. Please, government representatives - what will the government representatives do, did you choose the government here? The government here has its representatives, who support it. What is the court's representatives here, both the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court? Give those experts you have outside the Assembly, outside the government, out of the courts, I guess there's someone else who understands constitutional - legal matter in this country. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs - you've raised committees above the Assembly. Of course, Natasa Micic, who made the decision, please, a decision without precedent, about calling, or not calling the election. You saw in the official messenger how that decision reads - I'll review the elections when the constitution is passed. And what if the constitution isn't brought? The constitution may not be passed, what will then, what will have the consequences, whether a new decision will be made, and said - this decision puts aside the decision that Natasa Micic signed on that day. I don't know what kind of counsellors Mrs. Natasha Micic is when she can make such a decision? Then, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina - please, you're really playing with serious things, you're slowly giving the wings to Nenadu Chanka. Well, every day, he's going to have bigger and bigger appetites, but he's going to open up with his separatist tendencies. Who from Kosovo and Metohija? Whether the 2000 elections were in Kosovo and Metohija, whether all citizens from Kosovo and Metohija, all Serbs, participated in the elections -- were. Have they chosen the people's representatives here? Yes, they have. So, what's this "return" for? These are self-proclaimed representatives of the Serb people, who gave legitimacy to the Shiptar Assembly, which now wants a secession from Serbia. So how are they gonna get here on that committee? Will NATO transporters, since they must not go out among their people? I don't know. You might want to deal with those questions, too. About these former MPs, who are still voting and who are going to vote on this, and probably after and on that constitution, that later books will be written and it will remain a seal for this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26345	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this motion for a decision is addressed to Assembly 17.2 and today it is 19.2. It is immediately discussed by the MPs of the National Assembly. Point 6 states -- the commission is obliged to submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, within 15 days of the day of its constitution, the draft law referred to in point 1 of this decision. What's the emergency, when it's about 52 laws in line, how much do we know? Isn't that an indication that this has already been written and that it's just waiting for this assembly to pass, as it has done so far with several laws? The SPS will vote against this decision, and one of the reasons is that the "Return" Coalition, which we know is a representative of, is that in the 2000 elections, the "Return" coalition did not receive the trust of the people, especially the Serb people, who live in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. She did nothing in the Kosovo and Metohija Serb and Montenegrin people's parliament to improve their lives and regulate the laws under Resolution 1244, which was also an obligation. What she did is that she gave legitimacy, i.e. giving legitimacy to law-making and Albanian MPs for a faster decision on Kosovo's independence, which was done at a special session of the assembly, where, in the presence of 20 MPs of the Return Coalition, she entered the declaration procedure, which was proposed by Albanian coalition MPs and supported by the heads of Albanian party parliamentary groups. So the Return Coalition has silently approved one such declaration to enter the assembly procedure, except for two MPs who were not present at that session. So, the SPS won't vote for this decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26347	There is the word of the Messenger of the people Arsen the Qur'an.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26348	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, in the decision to educate the Commission on the preparation of the law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when we heard the argument, could acquire the vision of the multipartial composition of this commission, with the participation of representatives of professional institutions, citizens' associations, and so on. It was an obvious desire to create an illusion of discontinuity from the last way the Constitution was adopted when one party resolved it independently. But if we take a closer look at the composition of the commission, we will see that representatives of MPs are elected twofold: one in a proportionate system, one in the order of representatives of parliamentary groups, and the other in the composition of expert committees. If we know that in all these committees most of them were representatives of government parties, if we know that the majority of them are also in the DOS parliamentary group, if we add government representatives to that, which is really stupid that legislative and executive powers are overlapping, then it is clear that the proposing's intention to create the required majority, the government's majority, which, by its own standards, will again create a new constitution, as well as everything it has done so far. But I won't keep on doing it. I would like to focus my discussion on the provision that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina is giving a representative. If we analyse what the commission's task is, then we see that the commission is said to be formed with the task of proposing a law on how to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We're wondering, then what's the AP Duke's representative doing here? Let me remind you that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has almost adopted its basic act, the law or the highest legal act, which it will say - did not bring but put it into public debate, after which it will be adopted, and I wonder if the Serbian Parliament took part in the adoption of this legal act. Did the Serbian Parliament have a representative on the Vojvodina Assembly committee? It's not. (Glasses: Yes. Gordana Komic. ) She is an MP of the National Assembly and is also a National MP in the Vojvodina Assembly, but is not delegated as a representative of the Serbian Parliament to participate there. So if we take the legislative activity of autonomy in such a way as to regulate the matter that concerns itself and which does not regulate relations that are common to the rest of the state, then that's fine. In this case, however, the matter concerning the rest of the state is regulated, without a representative of another part of the state, or as it used to be called -- Serbia's rope. Does this remind you of the continuity we had since 1974, when the representatives of Vojvodina and how they participated in making all decisions concerning the lives of all Serbia, and representatives of Serbia so-called. Serbia's ropes had no opportunity to affect political, economic and all other life flows in Vojvodina. We think that this continuity that is now starting again under the grain is not good, because we were all aware of the consequences that came from it. Of course, that cruel centralization wasn't right after that, either, but that doesn't excuse us getting back into a little door with some relationships that didn't show up. Interestingly, in every proposal, and we see amendments that are submitted to various laws, it always proposes a representative of the Vojvodina Assembly as a representative of Vojvodina, so the question arises as to who are representatives of the citizens of Vojvodina in the Serbian Parliament and all other bodies that this assembly forms. Is it us, the people's MPs from Vojvodina, whether we belong to the position or to the opposition, whether they are representatives of all the peoples sitting here, Serbs and Hungarians and all others, or whether they are representatives of the Vojvodina administration, some officials, both adjudicated and political, who can represent only the interest of the ruling establishment in Vojvodina. Whether MPs in Vojvodina are represented in all bodies adequately the size of the electoral body of Vojvodina is another issue, but it cannot be ignored that some representatives of the Vojvodina who are not elected by the citizens of Vojvodina are being pushed away. That question is just to be asked, now that we're talking about it, about the legitimacy of the Vojvodina Assembly. I don't know how much you know, but the Vojvodina Assembly is legally formed on the basis of the results of the election under then applicable law, or still in force. A law with three candidates in the second round falls under extremely discriminatory laws and does not allow even a close picture of the true political electoral will of the Vojvodina voters. For example, how illegal the Assembly shows data that the SRS received 17% of the voters in Vojvodina, and there are no representatives of 120 MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly; the SPS received more than 20%, and there are only two MPs. Is that legitimate? Of course, I am not sorry for both the SPS and the SRS, because they have passed such a law that in their previous assembly and brought absolute authority to Vojvodina, but neither then nor now the Vojvodina Assembly is legitimate and it must be known. If we want the rule of law, a stable institution, if we want to solve political and all other crises one normal way through the elections, then we must ensure, once and for all, respect for the political mood of the people. Of course, it can be done with normal electoral laws and without subsequent termination of the free political will of citizens. That's the point and point of the whole story. That's why we at the DSS have long since asked the rest of the DOS to keep all those pre-election promises, i.e. The opening of an emergency election for the Vojvodina Assembly. Of course, thanks to this electoral law, and secondly to the unprincipled blackmails within the then DOS, those who have seized the absolute authority in Vojvodina do not, of course, come to mind to discuss the elections and to check who really are the real representatives of the people in Vojvodina. But that is why I can neither delegate myself nor promote myself as the exclusive representatives of Vojvodina, nor in the Serbian Parliament, nor in any other body that this assembly forms. We represent the Vojvodina only all of us MPs from Vojvodina and Vojvodina cannot be represented by anyone or represent themselves as an exclusive representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26349	The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, is a very short time to inform on this agenda, so we are unable to prepare ourselves, but I think such a practice has been before -- that the materials are given either before the session or at the sitting itself. If it's about such an important issue, such as a change of constitution, although many say it's not, it's just the formation of a law-making committee relating to changing the constitution, it's the same. I think that today we have entered into the procedure of changing the Constitution of Serbia, and we have heard from many participants in the discussion that this change is practically unconstitutional, because the existing Constitution precisely specifies how a new constitution can be adopted. If it's been two years, or we're going to wait another year, and it's going to be three years, on a change in the Constitution, whether it was meant to go to the adoption of a commission so quickly, if it's known that before 5 October you insisted that immediately after the government won, you would change the first constitution. We've seen that it hasn't happened and it's going to be very difficult. Secondly, we finally agreed, the opposition before October 5th and today's opposition, that it is necessary to hold early parliamentary elections, then the Constitution. However, the situation has now changed. If you look at Parliament's work for the last year and a half, no more, we see that there has been a change, and especially on several occasions, let's say, the Rules of Procedure. It's been said here for this pay phone, on several occasions, that this government, our government today, is the best for the last 100 years, that the budget that we've adopted for the last 100 years is the best, and I claim that the Rules of Procedure on Labour is the most restrictive for the last 100 years. I would not agree until the end, because Serbia was not completely freed from the Turks until 1912, the southern part, which is in a very difficult position today and where some aspirations arise again whether this south of Serbia will be the eastern part of Kosovo or will be Serbia. That's exactly why I'm pointing this out, so I'd like to ask one question in the end. I've heard on television that some Sicilian or Venetian constitutional law expert is already doing our constitution, and by that basis, they are predicting division into regions, which will have full autonomy, but I don't know where my Vranje and southern Serbia will be in that division, so I would ask for an answer if possible. Secondly, I would ask not to criticise my noun Bora from Novi Sad for that vote. He's too far ahead of a new way of voting. It's so-called. An interactive vote in parliament, where you can vote from a distance. It's normal, they work in congress. Therefore, please adopt a new technique so that our MPs will be able, and they are constantly abroad, from London, from Paris, not just from Thessaloniki, to vote in favour of laws; and only when we vote in favour of laws, not like this. So it's a new form and don't criticize it so much. I'd like to make a suggestion, and that's what I'd like to end up with. We need to go practically from what's already happened in our history. It is known that in 1929 there was a serious incident in the parliament of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians with tragic consequences. Aleksandar Karadjordjevic used it to abolish the 1921 Vidovdan Constitution, seduce the dictatorship and to give the so-called so-called in 1931. A gifted constitution. Mrs. V.D. The President of the Republic would suggest this mode of work, that due to one incident that took place last week, a very difficult one, when one SPS MP took off his jacket because of the bad climate - the device, abolished the existing constitution, that practically through changes that will be made to the octorean constitution, on which we will be able to work without a referendum and without the citizens' statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26351	Notice of the session of the Legislative Committee: a session of the Legislative Committee will be held in the session session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at 14.00 hours in Hall 99 on the IV floor. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. We begin the afternoon session with MP Milan Radulovic, and after him is MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26352	Please, before continuing the session, determine if we have a quorum to work with. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. We continue a unique review of the Proposal for a Decision on the Education of the Committee for the Preparation of the Law on the Way and Procedure of the Change of the Constitution. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Parliament should decide on the education of the commission to prepare the law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is already regulated by the highest legal act of our country, the back of the superior, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Articles 132 and 133, which clearly states how the constitution can be changed - by a two-thirds majority in the republican parliament, and then goes to confirm the referendum. We cannot, by some other act of less legal force, lower than the Constitution and in an unlicensed way, change the highest legal act in the country, but it is obvious that the government has settled it. She solved in one unsettled, unserious irresponsible way. They even wrote to us here who everything and how he could be a member of the commission, and said -- he could be a representative of the Supreme Court, representative of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, can be a representative even of the Return Coalition. The question arises -- and who, for example, could be represented by someone from the Return Coalition, whom, in the elections recognised by all political parties in Serbia, in the Serbian elections, in the elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia, those supported by the Return Coalition did not receive even 4% of the Serbian electoral body. Now they're going to represent someone in all of this, and those who got the most votes, well, those representatives can't have, those who got 65%, how much did the president of the SRS get down there; it can't be predicted, it's the Steiner's election. Says Mr. Jovanovic - well, he won't, will he, Solana? Well, it was Solana's election, Steiner's election, when Kostunica and Djindjic and everyone else called on Serbs, which was the biggest mistake, to get out of that election. What is there to be decided by a representative of the Supreme Court of Serbia, what, what is his question, as an expert to decide? You say in the third article, if I'm not mistaken, and I'm not mistaken, that the commission will hire experts on constitutional law and co-operate with international organisations. What kind of experts are they? Are they in other, regular courts, such as Zoran Ivosevic, the one who changes the already reached ruling of the Serbian Supreme Court with his pressures, because he brings them from William Montgomery's cabinet, or another cabinet; does he want to teach us what is professional, what is expert? Is that what Slobodan Vučetić is going to do, or is it one of the other similar unfortunates, that you have once declared experts, or anyone else? We have a clear way of changing the Constitution. There's no compromise. What an empty story, an amazing story, when someone says -- well, let's see, let's make that compromise. Well, there's no compromise with the Constitution, there's no compromise with the Constitution, there's no compromise with the Constitution, there's no way of destroying the state because someone imagined it, in one way or another, to bring it all to an end. And what is predicted then -- it is said: it is a commission, so it will decide how to change the constitution. So it is also contrary to the existing Constitution, as the Constitutional Charter was passed in a way that is not prescribed by the procedure, contrary to the country's highest legal act. Well, who can accept it more, how can we say after that we have a regulated legal order? You're talking about the need to bring about a god-awful new democratic constitution, this previous act is an autocrat, dictatorial, totalitarian, authoritarian, and I don't know what kind of regime it is, and we haven't heard any fundamental remarks about this constitution. You can say -- you mention social property, you need to get it out of the Constitution, and we'll agree right away, but come on, say a few more things that aren't right, not that there are genius solutions, and in these genius solutions, it's going to be a full deal with political opponents and nothing else, and that's all you're going to do. The broadest social consensus has been discussed, and what consensus has been reached to change, collapse and violate the highest legal act? And that's something no one in the SRS can accept in any way. That is why it is logical, and you have heard this today, that before going to The Hague for the last time, Dr Vojislav Seselj has addressed the National Assembly and said why our parliamentary group will not vote in favour of the motion for this decision, and I call on all the honourary Serbs, all the other citizens of Serbia, sincere Serbian patriots and patriots, to come to the Republic Square on Sunday at 1800 hours, to rally the escort of Dr Vojislav Seselj, to wish the greatest Serb a happy journey and good health ahead of his trip to The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26354	The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26355	Dear People's MPs, today we are not in a position to discuss a bill, but rather a political decision by the DOS to approach a review of the way and process of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The political decision was announced to us in the light of Parliament proposal by MP Bojan Pajtic. I will return a little later to the very procedure of proposing this decision, and before that, I will say that, in the afternoon debate, we heard a very serious political and legal analysis of this political decision, or a proposal to educate a commission that should prepare the law, and that law should determine how and procedure to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this morning's debates -- in which they participated, as you heard, all the parliamentary groups -- it seems to me that the two attitudes that are more or less undeniable have been used. When I say undeniable, it's those two attitudes that could probably get a two-thirds majority in this assembly. The first such position is that the current ruling and current constitution of Serbia is necessary to change. He will later look back on what the necessity arises. The second attitude, which I think has reached a high degree of consent, although not unanimous, as around the first attitude, is that it is necessary to make discontinuity with the existing Constitution. However, some parliamentary groups, while respecting the opinion of the professional public, have disputed a very convincing argument of such an approach that is really necessary for discontinuity. It seems to me that it would be a good idea to understand what discontinuity is and what we're making discontinuity with. The DSS thinks it is necessary to make discontinuity with the party state, and at the same time it is very necessary to establish a link with our constitutions from Sretenjski to the constitutions that were in force until 1945, when the rule of law was abolished and the party was introduced. In the Sretenjski Constitution, gentlemen, the first constitution to have Serbia, everything that is required of us today was guaranteed. There was a guarantee of freedom for every man, without distinction to his religious, national or ideological belonging. She was guaranteed a free and fair trade. It was a guaranteed private property. The Communist Constitution since 1945 has introduced a party state, under which private property is a sin, a little crime; the individual’s freedom depends on whether he accepts communist ideology, or whether he is progressive or so-called. The reactionary; at that time, it was said that freedom, but not freedom to the enemies of freedom, and the enemies of freedom were all those who did not agree with the party state and the one-party state system; and in the end, free trade was declared a technical invention and useful speculation, which should have been prevented. With that and that logic, it is really necessary to establish discontinuity. In part, the 1990 constitution established this discontinuity. We must say that this constitution does not fully belong to the communist legal logic, but this constitution has very many relapses of the one-party system, the party state, there are many solutions that are anachron, although the Constitution itself, as a legal act, has been above authoritarian political practice in the last ten years. From 1990 to 2000, the constitution was, it could be said, even liberal compared to the political practice that prevailed during that period. So, as far as discontinuity is concerned, he's necessary. I find it extremely controversial that discontinuity will undo Serbia's state-of-the-art tradition back to the Kingdom of Serbia -- through the current, or until now, SRJ, and back to the Kingdom of Serbia. I think that attitude could be controversial because continuity does not involve the legal implementation of one constitutional document from another. We have situations where history moves spirally. The adoption of the Serbia-Montenegro Constitutional Charter indirectly restored statehood and Serbia-Montenegro, which was recognised in 1878. So we got one lap from which one new spiral is now being performed. By seeking the admission of the SRJ into the United Nations, no reckless move has been made, let alone "crime" according to Serbia's state-run tradition and then the SRJ. These are things we could agree more or less on and where a two-thirds majority could be achieved in this assembly. But many things here are very controversial. You heard that. I don't think this assembly can cross over these controversial things. The point is, firstly, that one MP, Mr. Bojan Pajtic - whom I respect, of course, as well as any other MP in this assembly - submits a defacto proposal to change the Constitution. In order for the Constitution to change, 50 MPs are required to approach the Constitution at all. I don't understand why 50 MPs didn't make one such proposal. Secondly, a proposal for a decision on the education of the commission is also controversial. You have seen, and my colleague Jocic has convincingly shown that executive and judicial authority is being introduced into the commission and that he is mixing with the legislation. We from the DSS also have to say that we do not understand and that we do not agree that MPs are chosen differently in this commission but relatively many of the mandates that the parliamentary groups have. Here, this proportion, or percentage, is not respected. Why aren't they respected -- that's what they were talking about. They are not respected because the proposal for this decision is prepared quickly and in new circumstances. Two years ago, we were able to declare this Assembly constitutional, and then try to change the Constitution by two-thirds. We were also able to say that the best solution to overcome and overcome discontinuity - elections for a constitutional assembly, because in these elections all political forces would present their concepts of the constitution, and then a necessary degree of consent would be achieved in the people themselves, which would make it easier for MPs in the Assembly to work. We didn't do it. It was difficult to change the Constitution. The excuse, however, is that the Constitutional Charter was not brought, and that excuse is somewhat appreciated. But it cannot possibly be understood that once the Constitutional Charter was adopted, the amendments to the Constitution were approached differently than in 2000, when there was still a will in this assembly to transform the party state into a legal state. We've been on this phone for two years: transition reform; transition reform. What's a transition? The transition is nothing more than an effort to transform a party state into a legal state. It's a transition. In order for a party state to be transformed into a legal state, it must adopt its constitution, and under that constitution all laws would then be passed. Instead, we have one really in the meantime growing suspicion of the way most in Parliament are provided. In addition, that this way came out of the context of a normal parliamentary combination, which is usually common when the majority is being made, also says that this way, which exercises DOS, is controversial and from the judicial point of view, because the Constitutional Court had to deal with it, and of course it is extremely controversial and from the point of view of political morality, if such a thing exists, and I hope that it exists and that it should exist. So here we have this situation: a proposing who, by the composition of this law-making committee, wants to provide most of it. He wants to have a majority on that committee, and then that commission can suggest that we bring the Constitution to the absolute majority. If ordinary laws can be passed by simple majority, even when in a suspicious way it is secured, the Constitution, gentlemen, is not. The constitution must have a two-thirds majority. He really has to. If he doesn't get a two-thirds majority, that constitution will be short-term. After all, the time when a proposal for this decision appears, instead of two years ago, tells us and reveals us -- unfortunately, I must say -- the tactics of the ruling structure in Serbia. Their tactics are very familiar, studied. No one can be confused with it anymore. This is the following tactics: don't solve problems, leave them, let them culminate; create a crisis; go into teat and teatnet offers quick solutions and pure improvisation, because teat is not possible clear and thorough solutions. This is something that causes us not only serious doubts, but also serious concerns that the adoption of a new constitution, instead of the factor of homogenisation of society, will become a factor in the division of society, because the way it is intended to do so does not belong to the rule of law and to the logic of the rule of law, but to the logic of the party state. I am sorry that our former political allies quickly understood the advantages of the party state for political oligarchy and that they gave up the joint effort to replace the party state with the simple rule of law we had from the Sretenjski Constitution until 1945. Why did they do this is a special story, and it can be a sociological and psychological analysis. The fact is that we and our former coalition partners definitely split up when we realized that we should not give up on the idea of the rule of law, that we must not give up on a liberal economic system, that we must not give up on a flexible and authentic cultural and educational system, and when for some reason they set out to restore the neocommunist system that they inherited. Whether it's due to an ideological regression or a dissociation, or they've been pressured by circumstances, we can also discuss it. But we can't -- with regrets, I must say, Mr Jovanovic -- to reach a consensus that you have pleaded: that we should all be clear on this motion for a decision. We can't because, in the meantime, in these two years, it's shown that we live in the same country, that we have the same problems to solve, but that we have really diametrically opposite paths. You persist on your way, which in our sense is a tap in place: a step forward, two back, a little left, then a right, a lively, little sign, and it's called reform. We have to slow down, but patiently, because that is what tradition obliges us to do, to go into the construction of the rule of law. In the end, I'm sorry to have to say, we're like MPs, all of us here, this assembly has proved to be politically immature, historically immature to change the Constitution. Indeed, we are no match for the people who have made the Constitution of Happy. I guarantee you that the historical consciousness and political culture of these people was much higher than ours. Is it a shame to admit it to the people - people, we are not able to carry out necessary reforms, try to choose others who know it. We wanted to, but we can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26356	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26357	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Radulovic is a truly correct MP and I simply want to not compromise with him but to try to remove any doubt that I saw in his performance. The members of the Constitution mentioned are members of 132 and 133, and the parliamentary group I represent absolutely agrees with those members of the Constitution and with the definition provided for in the amendment of the Constitution and established by these members. So it's a two-thirds majority and then a referendum that requires the initiative to support more than 50% of the citizens with voting rights. We're talking about something else today. We are talking about removing those gaps and dilemmas that were seen in the process of making the Constitutional Charter and we faced during the assembly debate when the work of the Constitutional Commission and its composition was criticised, primarily as a result of an undefined decision served by this Parliament without any special preparation. So how will a future commission or a constitution centre be formed? Who should be involved in the work of this center? In what time period should the proposal for a constitution be completed which, it is true, then formally should be submitted by MPs and I hope there will be 50. There is a lot of work to be done in the preparatory phase, and that is what we want today to allow by forming this commission, or by voting on the basis of a decision that would define by law everything that would then have to be a procedure, which will eventually end in the way it has to be done - therefore, with an initiative in parliament. The two-thirds majority or referendum, that's the topic of discussion. We don't rule out any possibility. We just think it is necessary to constitutionally redecorate Serbia and so far it has not been possible to do such a thing, and if it was possible, then it is not done and we can talk about these situations, but I don't see that we missed something, or I don't see that we missed any concrete initiative. We do not have a single parallel proposal in the Serbian Parliament today. We don't rule out the possibility that someone can make a better one, but he doesn't exist today. We didn't get a better proposal on the Constitutional Affairs Committee. In all those discussions that marked our public political life, there was no concrete proposal or initiative. We're starting it today, with the best of intentions. We can agree that we're different from what we're doing and we have the right to be different, finally, that's not our faults. Citizens will make a quality decision in the elections and, depending on this assessment, we will make mutual adjustments, which will allow someone to exercise power and others to be an opposition and that is a normal parliamentary life. But it is not true that we do not want to create a legal state and it is not true that we are creating an uncommunist Serbia. It's just that these aren't facts. That could be one subjective attitude. Today is the ideal time to create the Serbian Constitution because we know the Serbian framework, we know what its future is and we have imperatives, provisions of the Constitutional Charter that we have voted for. By voting for this Constitutional Charter, we have recognised one reality, the reality of the inability to change the Constitution of the SRJ in a constitutionally defined way, but no one has previously done so by law. That did not previously stand in the Belgrade Agreement. It was an internal agreement by the members of the Constitutional Commission and let's say that it was a good solution, although of course part of the public can dispute it, and challenge it. But in order to go one step further, we suggest better - that we regulate these relations by law, so that no one can vote within that centre or commission and break the existing rules, because we will define the rights and obligations of each and no solution by law. We do not say what kind of territorial organisation Serbia will be, what its internally organised social life will be. We don't prejudge any final solutions, we just define a framework in which we're going to look for these solutions, and that's why consensus is needed. If we agree that something needs to be changed and it's time to do something like that now, because today is also if it was three months or six months ago, then we should do it and let's do it. I can tell you that much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26358	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. No more sign-ins for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what it looks like when someone wins with a two-thirds majority, and then two years late, all disagreements and problems come out and now struggles to secure 126 votes in an illegal assembly, to put off the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the goal, this is the purpose of today's story and this work that will last 7-8 days, how long the law leaves him a deadline. If you adopt this and change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this way, it will be as if in the legal order and in order in this country you have dropped an atomic bomb, because no nation has allowed itself yet to allow an illegal and illegal assembly to carry out a warrant, the desire of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to debunk its citizens of the constitution. Even the king, by the dictatorship of the Radicals in the Preamble of the Constitution, wrote -- we, the people of Serbia, give ourselves the Constitution. Even the king did not dare to say that he was giving Serbia the Constitution, but that the people of Serbia were giving themselves the Constitution. This isn't any, this is a Danish gift. If you approach this way to make changes to the Constitution, you will be the Danites who have brought a horse into this congregation, from whose wombs will taste anything. The truth is, whoever deals with politics needs to know what Makiavelism is. Often, the term is used pesoriously, and he wanted to unite Italy, so he said -- when it comes to the state and the people, all the funds are allowed; and you say here -- when it comes to the desire of the DOS and the government of Serbia, all the funds are allowed, so we'll start with a two-thirds majority, with a referendum, and we'll lower it to the extent that we can provide a quorum here in the Assembly. We are told by the legislator that the existing solutions are obstacles and that the Constitutional Charter points us to eliminating this obstacle, and we are convinced here by a representative of the DOS that we can discuss both the referendum and the two-thirds majority. You can't talk about it. You won't talk about it. That's not the solution you're even thinking about. What would be wrong if we had reached a consensus on constitutional changes so that we could all invite the citizens of Serbia to a referendum, to propose here for a two-thirds majority referendum issues and to vote on the constitutional changes in the referendum, because we agree on the same things here -- coat of arms, anthem, flag, social property, the choice of the President of the Republic. There are a few other things that need to be thrown out of that constitution. Who would object to that? Who would give you any trouble about that? But you irritate not only the MPs and the political parties, you irritate the citizens of Serbia by imposing solutions that can be agreed on, because the people were expecting you as people to negotiate. They've had enough of some that are natural solutions. Let's make a deal now, but as we make a deal. Look at the deal we're making. One political group here; if it weren't for tragedy, we'd be interested in listening to how different you are and how much you hate each other when you're just sitting under the crust and taking off beautiful suits, tie, and show yourself who you are. What do we do when we're in the 70s and 71st? The Rules of Procedure allow the formation of polling committees and committees, but only from the ranks of MPs. Who's going to propose the law to us? What commission? Since when does a commission propose law to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? It is known who is the authorised legislator: it is the government that always hides behind the signatures of MPs when it calls for extraordinary sessions, MPs and a number of voters. They're the only authorised legislators and the law and any decisions that need to be made here. How the commission hires experts when you're in article 72. The Rules of Procedure wrote that only the President of the National Assembly, on a proposal from a committee or commission, can hire professionals to help in the work of drawing up a document. The commission can't hire anyone. He doesn't have the means of engagement. Here we are beaten by television by the draft law on lustration, in which the Constitutional Court judge participated. Today you are proposing to us the assembly committee and in it one Supreme Court judge, one Constitutional Court judge, not to mention the Return Coalition, you all said. I can give you a whole series of associations you could have invited to that committee. But the judges can't participate in making the bill and they can't appear as proposings, nor can we show up at trials and say, where do you get the idea of measuring this kind of punishment or where you get the idea of freeing this man? Neither can the judge, so let the Constitutional Court judge, in the congregation, deal with legislative action. If a member of the committee or a MP doesn't have enough knowledge, let him go this afternoon to ask the Supreme Court judge and the Constitutional Court judge - we write this, what do you think it will go through, if someone turns to constitutional appeal or otherwise, and not like this. Come out and tell me what's wrong with the Constitution. Take a taxi and we'll tell you what we can accept at the same time. We don't have to consult at all, we have a Serbian Radical Party programme. Say it here at the pay phone, and that's not good, and we'll say that you have the support of Serbian radicals to change that and that, anyway, no one here would cause you any trouble. In this way, I don't think you're going to raise 126 MPs. I think those other people who care about this country are more in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26360	Since there are no more word lists, I ask if the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used this right want to do so. The word is issued by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26361	Dear citizens of Serbia, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this motion for a decision has a good solution, but also many bad solutions. The only good thing about this decision is that the change of the Constitution is initiated. I think we're all agreed that, in part, the Constitution needs to be changed. I'll list only two members of the Constitution who have their eyes pierced and who need to be changed as soon as possible. That's, say, Article 8. The constitution of Serbia that speaks of the official use of language. It says that in the Republic of Serbia there is an official use of Serbian. Imagine, for example, a member in the Croatian Constitution who says that the official language in Croatia is Serbian, or Croatian? I think there will be a revolution in Croatia the next day. (President: Mr Pelevic, this is not a debate on the new constitution, but on the proposal for a decision, i.e. the establishment of a commission for the preparation of the amendments to the Constitution. Therefore, I ask you not to analyse the constitutional solutions now. Madam Chairman, I don't know why it bothers you, but I'm just talking about the purpose of starting this decision. Thank you for your warning, but I think I'm also holding the agenda. Another member of the Constitution is a 56th member who speaks of the equality of all property, i.e. social and private property. So that's a good solution and a good initiative. That's what I'm talking about, Madam Chairman, and I hope you understand. But this decision contains many other bad solutions. I'll try to locate them right now. It is true that the fact and reality of a referendum prescribed by Article 133 is true. Serbia's constitution on changing the constitution cannot be fully organised in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija. But it's only partially true. Let us remember that the 2000 parliamentary elections were organised in part in our southern province. Let us remember that last year's presidential elections were organised partly in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, I see no reason not to try to organise a referendum in both Kosovo and Metohija. I think we might get permission, and if not, we might allow citizens who are willing to go to a referendum, citizens of Serbian and non-Albanian nationalities, to vote in certain cities of Kosovo and Metohija, or in the cities of Serbia, where there are numerous refugees from Kosovo and Metohija. So I'm not sure this is an argument. This is a good excuse for making this decision, but I'm not sure it's a perfectly valid argument to avoid Article 133. Serbia's constitution, which speaks of the constitution as changing if 50% plus 1 voters who have the right to vote come to the referendum. This decision violates Serbia's constitution. Articles 132, 133 and 134 are violated. No one can disprove this because the reasoning of the decision clearly states that this decision aims to avoid the solution provided for by the members of the Constitution 132, 133 and 134. It is a bad decision and a bad constitution is built to bring down the previous constitution and the unconstitutional principle of the constitution. I think it's a bad solution and the composition of the commission that's scheduled for this decision. There are 25 members in the commission. Of that, it is certain that 17 members will vote in favour of any decision taken by the DOS presidency. This means that in this commission, DOS has a two-thirds majority. That's problematic. It is quite clear, for example, that in point 2 of the decision: The Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - one representative, that is DOS; the Committee on Justice and Management of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are certainly a representative of the DOS; the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly, quite certainly a representative of the DOS; six DOS representatives, three representatives of the Serbian Government, so DOS representatives; the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, quite certainly DOS representative; the Coalition "Return" - one representative, quite certainly, DOS representative. While I am at the Return Coalition, I think the participation of the coalition is very problematic in this commission, because I am not sure that this representative would be the real representative of the people living in Kosovo and Metohija, the Serb people, and the representative of that people from Kosovo and Metohija who escaped in 1999 after the bombing. When it was discussed whether or not to go to the elections in Cosmet, we said it was bad for Serbs to go to the polls, because by going to the elections we would only legalise Albanian institutions and thus plant the seeds of an Albanian independent state. So that was wrong. I'm not sure that a representative of the Return Coalition will be a true representative of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. After all, there are many MPs here from Kosovo and Metohija and are members of various parties. I think they are the only ones who can represent the interests of the people of Kosovo and Metohija. Representatives of all three authorities are represented in the commission. As we know, every state, even if it strives to be democratic, has three types of power, both legislative, executive and judicial power. It is unimaginable that legal acts, laws and decisions in the assembly are made by representatives of the other two types of government. Only representatives of the legislative authority, i.e. MPs in this case, have the right to do so. So, just the National Assembly. Here, as you can see, we have representatives of the judiciary -- one representative of the Supreme Court and a representative of the Constitutional Court. I don't see any reason for them to be on this committee, otherwise we've really mixed up grandmothers and frogs. What would the representatives of the Serbian government do here? It is an executive authority that should not be a place in the legislative authority when making these decisions. I agree with the fact that representatives of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, may be some representatives of the Serbian government who are legal experts, are expert consultants, to be advisers, to be perhaps even members of an extended composition, but without the right to vote. The right to vote in this commission can only be given to representatives of the legislative authority, which are MPs, representatives of the parliamentary groups represented in the Serbian Parliament. I think it's a flagrant violation of the basic principle of democratic power and of one's non-mixing in another power. Just to point out that point 3 is already scheduled for legal experts to be expert consultants in the work of this commission. From the above, it is clear that the DOS majority wanted this committee to be sovereign, to have that two-thirds majority and to make decisions as appropriate. I'm not sure that's gonna happen with a constitutional committee working on the constitution. For all these reasons, the Soviet Union cannot support such a decision as was made to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26362	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Does MP Bojan Pajtic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank all the participants in today's debate on the contribution to the work of the committee to be established on the basis of this decision. We have often overcome the topic that was on the agenda today, but it is quite certain that the time we have spent here today has not been wasted and that it will serve, as well as everything we have discussed, the future constitutional commission, and this commission that we will form on the basis of today's decision, will continue to work. I'd like to clear up some dilemmas. Two dilemmas have emerged, which are relevant for today's decision we make. I note that we are making a decision only on the establishment of a commission that will define the procedure and way of changing the Constitution. The first dilemma - was it ever supposed to come into the constitution of this commission, or was it even necessary to change the Republic Constitution? Our adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter defines the obligation of the Republic Constitution to conform to the Constitutional Charter. The new powers defined by the Constitutional Charter, in the field of monetary policy and in some other areas, also imply the obligation to adapt these provisions in some way to the provisions contained in the Constitutional Charter. There are a whole series of anachronous provisions in this Republic Constitution, and we have often heard questions as to why the Republic Constitution should be changed, from those provisions relating to the relationship with the SFRY, to those provisions declaring social property as one of the equal forms of property; to those provisions that define in a different way both state symbols and language; to those provisions relating to the amendment of the Constitution and which put this constitution in the category of rigid, virtually unchangeable constitutions. All these provisions themselves deserve the procedure for the adoption of a new constitution. I note that it is impossible to amend one provision of the Constitution without it being a change of the Constitution, i.e. past a procedure that would involve a change of the entire Constitution. The second relevant issue relating to today's decision, which is narrowly restricted and which relates exclusively to the constitution of this Commission, is the fact that by making this decision, it deviates from the procedure provided for in the provisions of the Republic Constitution and is related to the amendment of the Constitution. I would like to point out once again that the expert public has fully reached a consensus on the need for constitutional discontinuity, precisely in view of the nature and character of this constitution, in order to change the Constitution. The formation of this commission is only a first step and this commission should only propose to the republican parliament which is the path to move. In all transition states other than the Republic of Hungary, it has been done in a similar way. There were round tables organized, there were commissions made. I think that by passing a special law, we and how we follow the principle and representativeness, we follow the principle and constitutionality, to the extent that the constitutional authority defines itself. For those of you who say it's impossible to do this, the question remains how did the Happy Constitution come along, based on what constitution? How was the Constitution of 1945 brought in, based on what constitution? The constitutional authority, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is the only self-constitutional and self-constitutional power. That's exactly why constitutional discontinuity is possible. It defines the rules of its constitution, it defines how and which is the extent of its authority. In that sense, I thank you once again for your work and I suggest that precisely because this proposal implies the participation of all political parties and the cross-breeding of all the arguments that we have heard today in the debate, you are voting for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26364	I thank Mr. Pitiæ. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. The motion for a decision will be decided in the voting day, which you will be notified of in good time. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for CONCESSION LAW You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Srdja Popović; together Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomić, Stevan Gudurić, Vladimir Garčević and Zoran Nikolic; jointly Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nešović, Živanko Radovančević, Golub Rajić, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic and Zoran Pogelković; jointly Petar Sekulović, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukić; together Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic; Branislav Kovačević; together Natasa Milojević, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatović, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Marković, Dragan Milentijević, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Kristododulo; Milorad Stanrad Stanod. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was singled out by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee's report on development and economic relations with abroad will be presented to you, it's being prepared. National MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic, written on the way, withdrew amendments to Articles 7, 8, 12, 14, 16, 17 and 28. The amendments to be submitted until the start of the search in principle will be given to you during the session. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure, the total time for discussion, is five hours. I would like representatives of the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists of registered speakers. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although everything is going illegally and illegally in this assembly, I have a duty to find out what it is, so I'm asking the president of the National Assembly if she remembers when we're due to vote on the draft tobacco law. Did she follow the calendar and know that day was long gone? Is she aware that we had discussed a law completely, that we had entered into a procedure for some laws or decisions that might have been more urgent? The deadline for voting on the draft tobacco law remained; this vote, by your decision, and you informed us about it, should have been at the same time as we voted on a previous proposal that had passed in the assembly. I think you should appreciate and respect the MPs who come to the meetings of the National Assembly, and even when you work past the Rules of Procedure, which you always do, at least give us two or three words of explanation. The summoning of this extraordinary session was past the Rules of Procedure, so, well, we felt silent, and this morning in one sentence you said you were forced to schedule this session in less than seven days. We kept it quiet. That's what the Rules of Procedure lets you do. The Rules of Procedure won't let you pass anything without you saying anything about it. If you don't have a secretary to remind you, if your children don't ask you at home -- is it, Mom, that the MPs didn't vote on what you had scheduled for them the other day, here are opposition MPs to ask you. It is not the conduct of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia unconditionally and irrevocably meeting the orders of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is supposed to be a holy letter for you. It is not our will, the rights of MPs have been drastically denied, but you deny them in accordance with this yellow book that was made by the "yellow company" and "grabs" together. Don't you go any further than this book and deny us parliamentary rights without telling us anything about it. So, I'm asking you, Mrs. Micic, did you schedule a voting day for the draft tobacco law, and is it possible that I didn't attend that session?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26366	This book should, of course, be respected by me, to apply, but so should you, MPs. Therefore, you have failed to list a member who is advertised, and it is your duty to do so under the Rules of Procedure without speaking any further. In any case, the election day is the discretionary authority of the president of the National Assembly and you will be informed of it in good time. Of course, you will not be denied the right to declare yourself in that voting day and on the draft tobacco law, as well as on other proposals. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Mr Goran Pitic, Minister of Economic Relations and Foreign Affairs, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26367	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a law before you that does not essentially fill the legal void, because the concession law was passed in 1997, but a law that is fully according to new principles, procedures, ways of public competition regulates this matter, the proposal for a concession law, has been in place for about a year in the Assembly. Given the serious interest of those potential concessionaries, I think it was high time that this legislation was implemented in the National Assembly and that the matter that defines the relationship between the concessions, in this case the state, and potential concessionaries, were realised, right and negotiated in a way that was seen in the comparable legal systems that we seek. I think we should single out at least two segments where concessions are extremely important, and for that reason I think we should all be aware of the importance of this law. One section refers to the acceleration of economic activity. In other words, concessions represent one of the essential elements of the development of the economy, and especially those related to infrastructure, energy, traffic and a series of other activities whose regulation in this way can trigger economic activity. The second, also important segment, and I think we all need to keep that in mind when we talk about this law, is the effect of this law on the living standard of the population. Concessions regulate those issues that are vital to the living standard of the population, as contracts of this kind improve and improve the lives of the population. At least for these two reasons, this law has an exceptional importance. I must express my gratitude that a very large number of participants participated in the preparation of this law, both domestic and foreign. We had a serious public debate that pointed to certain problems in this matter and helped us regulate this matter according to the best norms and legal institutes that can be found both in transition and in countries we seek, primarily Europe. I'd like to keep your attention on a few topics that I think are important when it comes to the concession law, that is, this matter. First, it's a question of determining the problem itself. This law essentially tries to find one balance or resolve relations between private and public rights. On the one hand, the nature of things is that the state appears in an attempt at a superior position or as a state government in this matter. On the other hand, the concessionaire normally requires that he have equal treatment if he contracts certain matter according to one principle that has been introduced into this law, which is freedom and autonomy of will in the contract, or contract as one of the primary institutes that has been forgotten in our society; means, contract as the center of realisation of the concession. In this context, then, we are looking for a balance, and I think that by looking for this balance between public and private law, we have found the measure that regulates this matter, in a way that provides a high degree of legal certainty in this matter, which is crucial to the law and which is the objective of the law. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that concessions are effectively and uninterrupted. If we have managed to provide these two elements, which means a high degree of legal certainty, disabling discretion as elements of a concession decision, I think we are one step closer to what we want to see, and that is that, regardless of which government will be in this place, the degree and manner of decision-making, the procedures, the choice of concessionaries, the definition of what can be the subject of the concession simply be the subject of legal matter, and not the question of the goodwill of the one giving concession, the concession, in this case the state. I have to say, when it comes to the case and the purpose of this law, to make a certain difference specific to the previous law, which is that this is about what essentially defines the spirit of the law that essentially removes this proposal from this current Law on concessions, which is the new principles of the procedure and the new way of public competition. I think with these two institutes in the realization of the concession process, we have a new model, something that I repeat, has its foothold in the parallel -- the legal systems that we seek. What are these principles, and what is it that defines the color of this law? Normally, this law regulates all those issues that normally regulate concession laws -- it's the subject of concession, the term of duration, the question of concession fees -- and it's normal for many issues of this kind to make no difference. When we talk about the subject of a concession it is certain that we will talk in a similar language; when we talk about a period of duration, it is certain that we will talk in a similar language; when we talk about the character of the concession fee it is certain that we will speak in a similar language; but when we talk about which are postulates that explain the spirit of the law, I think we speak in a different language, and I hope that the consensus that existed in the public debate will find its place in the Assembly. So the first principle that defined the character of this law is the principle of equal and fair treatment. In other words, it covers several elements that allow this principle to be realized. First, it is a prohibition of discrimination on any basis, either in a concession procedure or in a concessionaire's election procedure. Secondly, it is an obligation for all participants in the process to have accurate, credible information, to have already defined standards and criteria for selecting concessionaires; then, that none of the participants can have an advantage as regards access to information, with regard to access to the authorities responsible for the concession procedure; and finally, only on the basis of defined criteria, only on the basis of previously established necessary qualifications, which are necessary to enter the concessionaire selection process, it is possible to make decisions based on defined standards and criteria. The second principle is the principle of free competition. It simply implies a ban on limiting this competition of what everyone is talking about, which is the market; these are, therefore, the motives and ways of regulating the business movement of business traffic that will ensure the obligation to accept all participants with appropriate professional, technical, financial and other qualifications. I have had the opportunity for many of my colleagues, who serve as advisers to political parties, to put it as one of the pillars of the rule of law, which is a contract, something that has been forgotten in our society, in our economy, and here the point is to establish the principle of autonomy of will, to embrace the freedom of the parties to, in accordance with laws, norms, regulations and other customs, regulate matter and obligations and to arrange it according to their will. So that's one serious newspaper, these are the principles of the process, which ensure that this law gets its character that gives us space to talk about a modern system law. The second is the principle of giving concessions. It is an experience that is shown in many countries. Concessions have elements that show that there are both positive and negative experiences. I am sure that a number of MPs here will certainly point to the negative experience of concessions, from Sofia, via Budapest, to Croatia, etc., which was normal for us and how well it is known and which very well indicates that we need to take serious care of how this matter is regulated. But we also found that one of the elements of abuse and violation of the quality and spirit of the law was the way of giving concessions, and we defined ourselves as the one that ensures that it is public, transparent, in the only way that ensures that to the greatest extent that those kinds of obstacles are removed, and that is the Institute of Public tender. So everywhere there was an offer-gathering, where there were calls, where bids were, where no rules were defined, there were abuses. It's something we wanted to sort of bypass, or make sure it didn't happen. We felt that the Institute of Public tender is something where everyone has the right to apply and where everyone, according to this, if they provide their qualifications, has the possibility of being elected as a concessionaire, if according to the criteria is the best and if it is decided by the tender committee. Normally, we also have a foothold in this as part of the tender procedure in the Privatisation Act. So I'm talking strictly about the character of the procedure. I'm not talking about quality, I'm talking about character. I do not wish to take time for honourable Members to list what it is that the law determines, but I must say that the law very precisely defines the elements of a public tender; all that can be subject to a certain discretionary law eliminates this law by determining what is to be done, within what time, in which way, who is in charge, and all of this has a certain procedure, which ensures that this process is effectively closed. I think that this ensures a high degree of legal certainty (I return to what is the goal), meaning, in the very concession procedure, and on the other hand, we get one legal and reliable condition for determining who is the best, when all the criteria are added to the choice of concessionaries. I'll say a few more elements, which I think are important for understanding the character of this law. First, you'll see that the law lists all the actions that can be given in a concession. I must point out that this law, in order to understand what it refers to, because of some amendments that have been submitted, regulates use and the right to use natural resources and goods in general, which are in the possession of the Republic of Serbia and regulates the issues of other general activities. This law introduces categories so-called. a dispositive character, not an imperative character. In other words, it is possible for certain actions and good to be given in a concession, not imperative, that it must; it is very important to understand, which means that the final decision at the concession - is going to give something in the concession. And secondly, the listing of what was given in the law, some 14 areas, was given examples for the sake of it; in other words, these lists are not exhausted areas that can be given in the concession. On the contrary, those considered to be the most common form of concession giving are listed. In this law, a buckle was also made with the Law on Foreign Investments, which took over the definition in which concessions cannot be given, or where concessions cannot be established; this is regulated by the Law on Foreign Investments, meaning in areas of production and transport of arms and so on. Forbidden zones. A few more topics, which I think would be necessary for me to present to you -- the law regulates that concessions can be given for up to 30 years at most. In other words, if a certain concession is defined in a shorter period, in exceptional cases it may receive its extension but up to 30 years. Also, a new institute was introduced, which is the right to transfer concessions. Because there may be potential liquidation of the concession firm or bankruptcy, and that, given the financial resources behind it and the reason why the state wants to continue its concessions, there is a possibility of a right to transfer the concession. It is again an institute that is very common and widely used in all parallel - legal systems, but I deliberately impose it as a new institute, since it has not been present before. Also, we're coming to the point of a concession agreement. The law defines all the essential elements of the contract. There are no elements of a dissuasive character, which existed in the previous law, but there are provisions that must contain each contract, including a contract on the so-called so-called contract. B.O.T. the system (building-operate-transfer), i.e. the system - build, do, and transfer to the state at the end, which normally becomes the owner of these funds. We didn't want to pre-defined every form of concession. Allow me, in business traffic there are dozens of forms of such arrangements, so either everything is defined or none is defined, but the legal possibility of all forms of B.O.T. is left to be regulated by the concession law. the system, as well as other forms, such as B.O.T., which gives space to define any arrangement defining the relationship between the two parties, the concessions and the concessionaries. Normally, the issue of protection of the rights of concessionaires has also been defined. This is about domestic arbitration, and when it comes to a foreign person, then the possibility of international arbitration. The question of the creation of a concession firm has also been defined, as well as the issue of interruption and termination of the concession relationship. One question is the interruption of the concession relationship, which defines situations of some elemental disasters, war conditions, etc. when the concession can continue, but the situation when concessions stop. Finally, I must say that this law has been particularly modified in recent days, thanks primarily to the constructive contributions of parliamentary groups. This law has been done for a year. A large number of people, experts from this area, participated in the work. This law has been done in collaboration, above all, with domestic experts who know this matter, and it has passed verifications in international circles, business experts of countries whose legal standards we are trying to accept; it has also received certain improvements by having more than 15 amendments submitted. In other words, we have had really one very constructive communication in the last few days with all parliamentary groups, with those groups where we have accepted certain amendments, and I have to especially point out - amendments that have covered concessions of strategic and international importance, and concessions come to the National Assembly and the National Assembly that need to make their decision on whether or not a particular object of concession will be given in concession. This refers to a serious number of items in the energy sector, especially from traffic, so on those issues that are very important for the National Assembly to take its stand. The National Assembly also delegates a representative to the tender commission for each concession. When it comes to local self-government, when it comes to municipal activity, the procedure is fully conducted at the level of local self-government and the income from the concession goes to the local self-government. The definition of an expert team on the organisation of professional businesses, which will run the concession process itself, is in this sense that it is removed from the concession agency, because we believe that it is the restoring ministries that will normally carry out jobs for the same agency, so we do not feel that there is a need for double administration in the area of concessions. We believe that this area is so complex and wide that it would simply stifle the work of the agency, and essentially draw on the resources of resolution ministries or certain institutes and institutions, where expert assistance will be needed. So I'm talking to you about our definitions in the area of concessions, because the question of concessions is more delicate than some other issues that probably require the Agency's work; that is, the competent ministry and local self-government, when it comes to communal activity, are in charge of those positions. Normally, I thank all those who have sent amendments to those who have made communication with us in order to improve this law, and I thank those whose amendments we have not accepted. I hope that the arguments given on our part were correct, and I also thank those whose amendments we have accepted, because our openness, and I understand the openness of my fellow Members from the parliamentary groups, regardless of whether it was a position or opposition, was that we were able to obtain in this law a kind of bar of partial or majority consensus, in terms of quality, in terms of its importance and in terms of the impact it would have had on speeding up economic activity and improving the living standards of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26368	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. Does MP Zoran D. Nikolic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26369	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, held an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee because I believe that this law should not have been found on the agenda of the National Assembly's extraordinary session. For what? Well, general reasons that one law can be passed at all can be moved within two groups of questions. The first group of questions - that one area is not regulated, so it should be regulated by law, or by another group of questions - that a particular area of life has been solved badly, or that life has exceeded norms, so now a new law needs to solve new relationships in a different way. We have a 1997 concession law that has respected comparative law, which is a good law and which is a very solid basis for doing so. But the fact is that according to this law, which we value as good, the previous government has concluded one concession, while the new power is neither. We feel that this law essentially does not bring so much new, I would even be free to say that I think that some 80% of the norms in the previous law are present in this, so I think that, through a debate that will be conducted, we will be able to prove that by argument. Those 20% that are new and that have been expelled from the old law, or that has been built on new matter, have not been done in the happiest way. What exactly isn't good? Well, the government that built a good part of its policy by setting up agencies in various areas, even in rather irrelevant areas, gave up the agency that was present in the 1997 Law. We believe that it is the concessions that, because of their importance for this country, and how they must be followed by one team of professions and sciences, which would be organised in one agency and which would provide professional assistance to both the government and the ministries and local self-government around these important state definitions, when it comes to the management of our natural resources. We are witnessing a major personnel poverty both in local self-government and in the state administration. This is not just about this government, these are processes that last for years, and I don't think that our government, which should be an engine and a policy maker, is to this extent humanely impoverished that you in the ministries now have no human resources that can be quality and comprehensively debated about all possible consequences of giving or not giving concessions in a particular area. As a result, we believe that the existence of the agency was of importance, that it was not excessive and that it should not have been deleted. What else are we against about the law? The law indicated the system "build, use, surrender" as a notional definition, but no more letter of the law specifically elaborated it, specifically defined it. Third, some newspapers were introduced around the concession case. With regard to the use of the river and lake coast (we will agree, a very important natural resource) there was earlier in the law a restriction that the concession can only be given if it is linked to a particular activity, that is, a particular purpose. It is now a restriction to attach itself to a particular activity deleted, which creates the possibility of abuse, i.e. the use of these natural resources by concessionaires and in a way that will not be provided for by the concession agreement. We also believe, in the case of concessions, that it is not good for health institutions to be subject to concessions. It is our health care in a difficult state, it is that he needs help, probably abroad, but to define himself as a state that health care is the subject of someone's monopoly, especially a foreign one, I think it's risky and from the point of view of people's health. I also think it's not good in this law which opens up the possibility, however transparent the concession procedure, that a concessionary can, if he calls and meets the conditions, get a concession. This previous law, it seemed to me, did not allow - if the number of potential concessionaries fell below two, the public bid procedure was repeated. I don't think it's good at a small door to leave even an exceptional possibility that if one or only one of them appears to meet the conditions that a direct contract, or direct contract with the government, can give them a concession, because it can really open up the possibility of abuse. What I think all of us need to worry about, the government and the Assembly, is why there's no concession. The past government or the past regime, however you will, has concluded one by good law, and that is the famous share of Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, and by not exactly acting according to the 1997 law, the new government is no concession. Maybe that's why the concession doesn't have and that we haven't provided all the evidence as a state that we're creating and that we want to create a legal state, a stable state, because if every government comes to changing the law on concessions, changing the conditions for a long time, it's not a good message to everyone who wants to become future concessionaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26370	The debate on the proposal for a concession law continues with the participation of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups. First, MP Jovan Todorovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and then MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the National Socialists group, and then MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, signed in.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26371	Ms. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the pleasure and obligation to present our views on the proposed concession law on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. I said I had the pleasure. Why the pleasure? Because it seems to me that Mr Pitic is the first minister for this speaker to say that he did not say that he was reforming for one draft law, which is in the assembly procedure. It's really not reformal because the fact that we've had the law so far since 1997, and we even had one law that regulated general conditions for giving concessions to foreign persons from 1990. So matter is not new, but the subject is very interesting and the subject of this law is very serious. I don't think we're going to have any more important laws in our congregation procedure soon than we're proposing today. Secondly, it is important to say that, in the process until the start of the debate, we also had one correct and useful co-operation on the subject of the possibility of correcting the proposed text of the concession laws. The Socialist Party of Serbia, through its representatives, has made a significant contribution through fellow MPs to advance the proposed text of the law, not to be contrary to the basic concept which is earlier, and also now present in the law and to be acceptable and from the point of view of the need to expand the scope of action on certain issues, especially when it comes to the National Assembly. Secondly, what I want to say for the sake of the general public, me and many other citizens were forced to look at Vujakli sometimes, or "Lexicon of foreign words and expressions", and on this particular case, some conclusions that are important to me from the point of view of the total content of the law that is proposed. The concession actually means: permission, concession, privilege, privilege; approval of the authorities to carry out certain tasks which are free from the supervision of that authority; and concessionary is the one who has the privilege. It's precisely because we have a bill that should essentially regulate the issue of privilege or permission by this authority to some factor, whether the domestically whether or not it's entirely the same, that we have to pay particular attention to this subject, and especially when it comes to the subject of concession. I think that's the essence of this law. I remind you that in the previous text of the law, we had some nine points that talked about what was the subject of the concession. Today, we have 16 points in the bill, which say what could be the subject of the concession, and there are several points, and in particular points 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10, which are very important to me, because they usually include building facilities in the area of the Republic of Serbia that have state and international importance. It's about highways, hydrocentrals, thermal power plants, telecommunication systems, electrical power systems, etc. Indeed, it is instructive to think that this MPial congregation must take this matter seriously, especially the government that will largely implement or enforce this law. Not only this government, but all the other governments that will come after it, because this isn't the law in a few days, it's not even in a few years, it's probably in a few decades. The minister said what was the difference between the previous law we had and I could agree with it, but I would like to tell you a few more, in my opinion, the difference between the existing legal solutions, which I think are even better in the previous law, and if not much better than that, at least more regulated in the text that we had. For example, when it comes to giving concessions. We today have in one sentence defined what one needs to fulfil as a condition and say that it must be in accordance with the law, to adopt a concession act and to conduct a public tender. In the current text of the law, we had three specifics that are very important from the point of view of how we're going to apply the law, which are three logical conditions. First, to ensure the rational use of natural wealth, and nothing more logical than that. Second, to ensure technical and technological improvement of work on the subject of concession. And, thirdly, to ensure the protection and improvement of the environment in accordance with the regulations. What is particularly important, and not present in this text of the law, although it can be concluded out of context and I have a lot of confidence in people who talk about it, the minister and his associates, but I would remind them of the next thing. It was particularly important that, at that time, according to the solutions to the concessions so far, it could be given on condition that a public undertaking managed by some significant social good or natural wealth could not ensure its rational use, i.e. uninterrupted functioning. We don't have that condition now. I don't want to be a prophet, but I can draw some conclusions that can have a negative connotation. When it comes to the subject matter of concession, I would remind all of you that according to previous law it is new - maintenance and use of health institutions or their reconstruction and modernisation, construction of sports-recreative facilities, sports grounds, including cultural activities, use of thermal resources for health and production purposes, construction, maintenance and use of tourist infrastructure facilities. All of this has never been the subject of a concession before, and this bill proposes it to be. It's here for the socialists, and I think for many others, the most controversial issue of using health institutions; I underline - use. It may not be controversial to give a concession for construction, but it is very risky or perhaps even controversial to give a concession to use. Why? I understand when someone builds a health facility, equips a health care facility, specializes in some work, so whoever loves a choice; market mechanisms function, you don't have to go there because you have an alternative, a state institution that deals with this job of health care of the widest layer of citizens. But when you give a concession to the "Milenko Marin" health center in Loznica or to another health center in the Republic of Serbia and when that concession lasts for 30 years, whoever is a concessionist has the right to dictate the terms and conditions, and to set the price for healthcare. Please, this risk is in no way in line with the programme's definitions of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and I think the Democratic parties, since they have recently become or will be joined by a member of the Socialist International. Therefore, comrades from the Democratic Party, take note of this as an objective danger of real problems in law enforcement. Furthermore, the duration of the concession has not been disputed, and so far has been 30 years. I don't think we can talk about some realistically shorter deadlines, or there's no need, because this is the longest period for the duration of the concession and for me it's not disputed. I find it a little controversial that the bill promoter may not have favored it any more and put so-called first. B.O.T. System. So the system - build, use and surrender. Why does it matter to me? Because the essence of the concession proposed by this law should be precisely to find domestic and foreign partners who will build the proper infrastructure in our Republic, not just to use it. Using carries many risks. Get the Đerdap Hydrocentral. She could be the subject of concession under this law. Whoever took the Gerdap in a concession relationship would produce electricity, but the question is, would he deliver it to us? We say, okay, we'll deal with it. But it's not a matter of breaking up a contract. It's not about breaking up a concession relationship. When the contract is broken, it's not said that the concession relationship stops, and it's important. That's what I'm pointing to, not with the bad, but with good intentions. Please, if we now know the fact that electricity in Europe is more expensive than ours, then the one that produces electricity at Gerdap or some other power plant, market-motivated, will sell that electricity there. What are we gonna do without the power? You take someone who took a concession for the highway and says - toll for the route from the road crossing to Belgrade is 200 dinars, and now it's 20 dinars. What can we do about it? We are objectively not protected by this text of the law from such dangers. I'm not saying that they will inevitably come to them, but there are risks that this text is not sufficiently eliminated. I'd like to point out a few more things. It's not about whether you're going to accept what I'm talking about, but start thinking about it once. We have experience from the Privatization Act. This experience suggests that the funds realised by the sale of enterprises, i.e. privatisation entities, usually go into the budget. That rule only stands out in two cases - when 5% of the funds are allocated to a local self-government or autonomous province. All the rest of the funds go into the budget. The question for which purposes it will be spent is raised, because the story is regulated by the Budget Law. We have a similar situation here. It is proposed that the funds derived from the concessions be channelled into the budget as the revenue of the Republic of Serbia, except for these two exceptions that we had in the Privatisation Act, and they are now being revised into this concession law. It has been requested by some amendments, to some extent and accepted, that these percentages are kind of corrected. Why am I saying this? I am saying because the Socialist Party of Serbia and its MPs in the National Assembly consider that it is nothing more natural than that of the funds that are being realised based on the use of objects in the process, or the concession process, are intended to build these, such or similar objects. I understand that funds based on the construction of certain objects are used as budget funds. We have an understanding and justification for that. Please, when someone has been using the highway for 30 years and gives us the right concession fee, nothing is more natural for me than for those funds to be used to build infrastructure facilities that are the subject of concessions in points 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10, and there are airports, roads, electricity systems, telecommunications and a lot of other things. That's not where we came up with the understanding, but why? Because it is a real fact that the concessions of this type give poor countries and because for no one in this room it is not disputed that Serbia is a poor country and that we are forced to do what is proposed by this concession law. I'm afraid everything's for sale and we won't have anything to save unless we can fix our position with the international community. The fact is, in the last year, our position has been getting weaker and weaker. We didn't have a donor conference, and it was supposed to be in 2002. It was announced for early 2003, about $800 or $900 million -- God forbid some of that is, we Socialists don't think about what's worse than the other way around, but rather the other way around. We have a problem with the United States, although it may sound to someone that what Minister Pitic says may be better than the United States Congress delayed this story of helping Serbia, but we have a lot of problems at the front with the United States. I find it very interesting that no one mentions their debt to Serbia, or the $300m SRJ from 1990. We're all talking, and we'd have to be happy to see the sky promise of help after June 15th, and in the meantime, we'd have to meet some conditions here. It's hard for the French to give the Germans concessions of this guy, to which we'll probably be forced out of necessity and out of poverty as states and people. Therefore, the SPS insisted that, if the National Assembly is not already able to do so because of procedural, operational and other realistic reasons to decide on whom to give the concession, then it is indeed appropriate, it will be accepted, that the proposal for concessions for facilities of national and international importance is also being considered by this National Assembly. To give up your national fortune to anyone, it's a risk. There's no need for that risk to be borne only by the government, any government, this or any future. So I thank the minister and his associates for finding an understanding of the need for a large number of people, primarily the MPs, and through them and all the full-time citizens of Serbia, to participate in this story and say - we can give a concession here without jeopardising state and other interests, but we can't here at all. We only have one airport, a real airport, an international airport, and we can't give Surchin to anyone under any circumstances. For example, it may be one of the possible decisions in this congregation. It's a good thing that amendment was accepted. The right to tell you, it's so good that the SPS is thinking about this law, with all the shortcomings I've been talking about, and supporting it. I would suggest to the minister, but very well-meaningly, that by at least one regulation or government decision, I don't know which act, it regulates question B.O.T. systems in one more precise and, as you would say from the authorities, a more transparent way of simply letting everyone, the public and this Parliament know, in which we are going to force the system - to build, benefit and after 30 years of handover.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26372	The word is by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the National Socialists Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26373	Ladies and gentlemen, since they are dilemmas about the Socialists, I would ask my colleagues to represent themselves on behalf of their party, because, as things stand, there are a little more socialists here. Even the Democratic Party will likely be in a socialist international. Therefore, the SPS is the SPS, and the National Socialists are the National Socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, if you had proposed a law on amendments and additions to the existing concession law, perhaps a different conversation would have followed this speaker. Since you allowed yourself to prescribe all 10 of the 10 titles of the section; out of 43 subtitles, it is 33 or 74%; out of 45 members of the law you prescribe 31, or 70% of them call the concession law, then it would be good to talk about it a little more seriously. The very fact that after almost two and a half years, you allow yourself to, in addition to the existing Law on concessions, which is much more comprehensive and homely, observes the position of the concessions, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia or local self-government, suggest something you call the concession law, and essentially the law on amendments and additions to the existing one, states the fact that you are essentially trying to tell us that for these two and a half years there could be no concession, because there was no legislative space. All this would have been good if there were no need for an emergency procedure and your explanation in which you say there is a possibility that, if the concession is possibly made in accordance with the existing law, there are major adverse consequences for the state. That's why we should be here today and during the amendment debate much more seriously to discuss your proposal for a concession law. Dear Minister, we had a chance to talk to OSCE representatives in this assembly the other day and the first question of that delegation was - how is the law being prepared? When we told them that we saw legal projects the first time they came as a government decision in a congregation building, people couldn't believe it. I understood them well because in my career I did ten legal projects and the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia and I only had problems with the first legal project, because I just did what you did. I have done everything through the government and come before MPs who have, in turn, found a solution, had plenty and objections. Much better and much better is done when understood and realized that Serbian citizens did not choose these 250 people in this room for no reason and that it is much better if you have an idea to bring a specific legislative project, to come to the parent board with this legal project, to lay out the basic principles with which you want to perform, to hear what anyone smart, perhaps stupid, has to tell you and then with that knowledge go to your ministry and take care of those who will decide with you tomorrow in the Serbian Parliament whether or not this law can. The essence of the whole story is the national economy. Concession activity is one very delicate action, so to speak, on the edge of the knife. Basically, you give the concession law, I did it in 1997, and you these days, part of sovereignty over your space, and you have to have motive and justification for why you give that part of sovereignty or part of the right to perform certain activities to another. So, the state, the citizens of Serbia, through this parliament, must pass a law that must, above all, be domestic, a law that must have not predetermined everything, but at least enough elements that accurately specify what must still be in B.O.T. The system - build, manage and surrender and what are the basic reasons under which the Government can and may decide to enter the concession. You allow yourself to delete from the existing law, which is much better because of that, article 4 which was just read by the SPS MP. That Article 4 is related to the conditions of concession. Serbian citizens, through the MPs, say to the Serbian government, say to local self-government, tell anyone who decides that the concession is given on condition that the rational use of natural wealth or good in general use, technical - technological improvement of the activity that is the subject of the concession, i.e. technical - technological unity of the system. If you decide to give Kolubara or any other thermal power plant under concession, you, as the Serbian government, must have the task through the law to guarantee the unity of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. If you decide to give a concession on the highwayBelgrade - Nis - the Macedonian border, where for Belgrade - Nis, for example, the Greeks were ready, with a 12.5% internal rate of return of capital, to enter such a concession where for 15 years they will be held throughout Belgrade - Nis, but to build in four years a part of Nis - the Macedonian border, you must as a government have a task, through the law on concessions, to prove to yourself and others when you bring concessions, to safeguard the unity of the infrastructure system of the Republic of Serbia, to provide protection and improvement of the environment. Natural resources and goods in general use, as well as facilities, devices, facilities used by public enterprises whose founder is a unit of local self-government, can be given in a concession to another person provided that these public undertakings cannot provide their rational use. So Article 4 is a foundation for every citizen of Serbia and for us MPs in this House who are giving a warrant, whoever is in the government, not only in your government, but also in the future who will come here, that he must think so. That is why it was natural for the next article on page 8. 5. Your law is the basic reason for drawing up a concession act. The government must by law be obliged to bring in a concession act that the first thing in the concession act must be the reason why the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from all those who propose it, adopts the concession act. In the process of drawing up a concession act, you delete it. Well, let's move on. You're talking about some new principles you've introduced. There's no new principle. Let me tell you right now, just laugh, but you know, when it comes to the 1997 concession law, I first made a change to the federal law on foreign investment, so in the federal law on foreign investment, I introduced a tender as a term. You probably didn't notice that the existing law in Article 13 clearly states - public bidding for giving concessions to domestic and foreign persons is implemented in a manner established by federal regulations. Therefore, the whole procedure provided for in the existing Law on concessions is precisely a public bid, a tendering process, where concessions are essentially a tender for public bidding. And what is worst for you and what is already leading to one situation that needs to be seriously considered why certain elements are deleted from the existing law and introduces essentially fluidity and a chance to decide beyond the law, because too much freedom is given to those who decide, is the fact that essentially about B.O.T. The system shall be deleted again by Articles 32, 33 and 34. I agree to take on B.O.T. The system can write a lot. There's a book written by us -- "Concessions by B.O.T. model," it's a great book and it needs to be read. B.O.T. The system as such is wide, but the citizens of Serbia through this parliament, prescribing to the government how to behave, have the right to prescribe the minimum provisions that B.O.T. the system has, which will protect the interest of the state to define which such relations may be and which are the basic elements of the contract content - the contractual parties, the subject of the contract with the description of the project, the relationship of the facility, the transfer of technology that must be in B.O.T. systems and sources, conditions of funding of that B.O.T. the system, fee for use of the facility, standard use of production services and conditions of force majeure. This is the minimum that a good host by law, a good citizen of Serbia through this parliament must prescribe to any government, including yours how it will behave. Why are you erasing it? Why also introduce fluidity, it may reveal the following fact: in the old law of concessions under Article 13 they can only be given to public bidding, taking into account the federal rules on foreign investment, means public bidding through tender. The tender didn't come after October 5th, the tender is a category that has existed for a long time. The old law in Article 13 states - extremely, when public bidding fails, it is possible either to repeat public bidding or to go on call, auction by invitation. Two participants minimum again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26374	National MP, it's the tenth minute. Are you using another time?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26375	I'm moving on. In your article 20, there is something that gives you the right to doubt that you have introduced Article 2 as a declarative category. In Article 20, you allow it to be possible, according to the transparency of your approach, that there is only one participant in the public auction, the tender and that with this single public participant, the Government of the Republic of Serbia can enter into negotiations and negotiate the whole business. Now we're getting to the point. We have an existing Law on concessions which has clearly obliged any Government of the Republic of Serbia to specify precisely why it has defined itself to enter potential concession arrangements by adopting a concession act. There are no definitions in your law in this area, especially in Article 4, related to the rational use of natural wealth, technical and technological improvements, the preservation of system unity, especially large public enterprises, nor to the protection and promotion of the environment. Why is that erased? I don't know. The old law makes it clear that concession act (Article 1.) There must be reasons why she decided to go to the concession. No, there isn't. See from what the member speaks about the concession act and the reasons for the adoption of the concession act are as such deleted. Besides, when you reminded me, sir, you really helped me find it. So, first of all, when it comes to the adoption of a concession act, not that there is no reason to adopt a concession act, but there is no assessment of the expected revenues and expenditures and technological opportunities for the execution of the concession. The host who decides to call a concession bid and match must have a clear perspective of the behaviour of potential competitors, so that he knows exactly the limits in which they can be found. Between two or more of them, he chooses who's the country's best at the moment. Of course, there is no bail in such procedures that has to be made, it has been deleted from the old law. Next, the organization itself works on concessions. Exactly what MP Zoran Nikolic said earlier when he said that you had more agencies in the government of the Republic of Serbia than ministries. It is surprising that it is a completely new, specific type of business that can provide a significant source of income. Concessions can be positive, and so on. Not someone who builds a highway, builds a dam, puts it on his shoulder and takes it out of the ground. The one who builds in our country, the one who invests in our country, hires our operation, hires our production. So we're good to have a concession. About knowledge at all, when it comes to concessions. You see, all of a sudden, we're getting thousands of ducks with a new law. Everyone's going to learn what concessionism is. Every local self-government and every ministry must learn from the beginning what concessions are. Just so there is no line of school and that the ducks would sit down to negotiate with white collars from abroad, which are very verifiable in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, UNIDO-Y, UNDP, and the World Bank, we have provided by old law that we have an investment agency of importance for the Republic of Serbia. Why this agency? Somewhere in a large foreign investment, which goes into major concessions, there must be a continuity of knowledge about all the negotiations that take place on the territory of that country in the case of serious concessions. That agency is not the boss. The agency is a service to the ministries and local self-government, not to go to the track school since the first grade, but when the need arises at the Ministry of Mining and Energy to eventually give concessions for a certain natural mineral wealth, that the Minister of Mining and Energy does not go to the track school, but has its own agency where experts who have already passed negotiations on some concession have learned about all those phases that are present in the international financial world know the well-defined parts of the concession contract. As a team, they approach the ministry or local self-government and help the ministry and local self-government make concessions. This gives us strength in knowledge and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whoever is in it, has a team that does its job professionally, with knowledge. Instead, Mr. Pitic, with his government in a particular member, erases the agency, erases everything, makes a record of concession contracts. So, let a mid-expert officer hit the seal and record concession contracts, and finish the job. So the difference is huge. The foreign investment agency, especially when it comes to concessions, is necessary, because this is a specific type of investment, there are 200, 400, 600 million dollars, a billion dollars, these are contracts of enormous value. Vrnjaka Banja municipality cannot enter concession negotiations with some who have passed hundreds of concession negotiations, both in Poland and Slovakia, and in the Czech Republic. She must have her back, giving her back a group of experts at the Foreign Investment Agency, in the Serbian government, not to record negotiations, but to keep knowledge, to gain experience and to enter into negotiations with others even smarter in the next sequence, the next concession. This is destroying the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the existing law, simply erasing those provisions, and enrolling everything in the school's machete. So whoever comes now for a concession in Tutin, or in Sombor, or in Zrenjanin, the president of the municipality, educated by the knowledge of concessions, to sit down to negotiate with her, will know everything. Of course he doesn't know, and of course the negotiations will be desperate, and of course it won't work. So we urge the ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept those amendments. First, the amendment to return Article 4 to the law because it speaks of conditions of concession, because that means that citizens and states, through this parameter, prescribe what the government must meet. We appeal to accept amendments related to the agency, so that they have continuity of knowledge to assist the ministries and local self-government in the negotiations. And we appeal that Article 20 abolishs the possibility that a single bidder may appear to be the one with whom in these negotiations, by the system of Article 2 which is completely unnecessaryly written, in respect of the legal match, transparently, etc., enters into agreement. Because we all know that, finally, both tender and bidding can be done just for that one bidder. Go back to the old man's solution: the public bidding must have been successful, if at least two bidders are; if it fails, or to call the public, or then to go after the call, go to the people who are interested, but still have to be two. Of course, by tender, and this is what needs to be accepted here, because, since the federal state is no longer there is a common state of Serbia-Montenegro, from the federal rules on foreign investment, all things about the tender have been transferred. As far as the law is concerned, it should be pointed out next -- two and a half years, I repeat, there is a Law on concessions. Of course it was from 1997 to 2000. A contract was made completely bad, between Belgrade and Novi Sad, because people who did not even comply with the law that was done, and logically, by 2000 could not have been done, although negotiations were, because this was the international climate and the agreements that had almost come to an end, especially for the Belgrade highway - Nis - the Macedonian border. But to have the Law on concessions for two and a half years, at the time of opening, when everyone loves this country, (we are admitted into the UN, here, we want to join the EU, we want to go to the Council of Europe), and not to use the existing Law on concessions, it is already talking about the effectiveness of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But write that it is important to adopt something that is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions, because the existing law is harmful, e, it is already a question of the morale of the one who wrote it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26376	The word has the minister of economic relations with abroad, Mr. Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've had a chance to hear some comments about the law and I'd try to make a synthesis and comment on what we've heard so far. First, I would say a few technical things, which I think are important and I think it's a good way to hear it from the suggestions why we've defined ourselves like that, although there will be details, because the honourable fellow MPs have mostly talked about amendments, which they have submitted to the bill itself, and we have tried to point out why some things are not acceptable. There are some things that give very much space to define -- what is essential, and it is indicated that these are key elements in the process and conditions of giving concessions, and it is talked about defining, or the criteria that involve rational use or technical improvement, and it is not indicated in which way to measure whether something is more rational, whether something technical and technologically enhances the system, and whether, on the other hand, it gives room for discretion in defining it -- which is more rational, which is precisely the point of this law; defining inaccurate criteria leaves space where they can be used. So that's a question that we tried to solve by accepting an amendment that, in Article 8, which defines a proposal to grant a concession, defines one item that says "evaluation of the eligibility of the concession"; it's a small study, which will say whether something should be, or not, the subject of the concession. When it comes to some possibilities, and we are now talking about this level of some technical comments, for example. Tolls, and if something costs 20 dinars today, will tomorrow cost 200 dinars? Well, the point of the whole law is the other way around. I have already pointed out that these are categories that are dispositive and which give opportunity, and in the end the government is competent, in line with some general criteria, especially given the population standard, not to allow it, and therefore we did not give any concessions that required to be priced toll, for example. increase countless times and thus, essentially, no one uses those paths. So, there's some logic I'd be praying really, when it's being commented, that it's meant to be, and Mr. Ivkovic knows it especially because he knows this matter, that he can't just make a combination and ask himself the question - why is there no concession? Well, because it directly hits the standard of the population and because it's not the intensity of the legislator, it's the intensity that the people are benefiting without hitting their pockets. I don't think we're going to be convinced that the same logic was present in that context. Speaking of which, it seems to me that we really forgot the contract category; we say that the law should define some things, and we forget that it is the contract that defines many things, which gives space to the parties to define their rights and obligations. It is true that we have forgotten in recent years that what is foreseen as a contract is a commitment for the parties, that this should be a basic legal institute which should be managed by those who enter into obligations, as a concessionary and as a concessionary, and not to explain in the law in a way that, regardless of which government it is, leaves room for discretion. I have to say, it's not clear how so many mistrusts in local self-government. I think the point of the whole development of society is to go towards decentralisation, which means that local self-government and all institutions are being trained in the direction of accepting those responsibilities that they stand for. If we have provided for communal activities that local self-government should deal with this and that income goes completely to local self-government, then let them also create their own organization based on manuals or instructions, as well as the model contract that has been made. Therefore, a model of a concession contract has been prepared to be such as to define all the provisions of the contracts that have been or are determined to be within them, and leave the autonomy of the will between the contractors to eventually make certain items additional contracts. There's a B.O.T. System. You said yourself, if we could start with as many B.O.T.s as we can. The system now has, I'm sure you'd like to list at least twenty models of business traffic in which there is a B.O.T. system. And what if something is not called that in the law and it fits the nature of the concession, so the law is avoided and not applied, to be a concession; then what about those models that were foreseen in the previous law through B.O.T. The system, and they're called B.O.O.T. the system or B.O.O.; how to cover those models, which is essentially a concession. This law is very simple to define, because concession is said to be, in the sense of this law, and concession by B.O.T. the system, including all forms of that system. This means - everything that is a potential object of concession within this model and form is the subject of this law. How will be defined - it's the subject of a contract. That contract will define with the specifics that are envisaged, so what every concession contract must contain. And depending on the diversity of the system itself, there will be different categories of contracts. Well, that's the basic principle of market economy, the principle of autonomy of will, I repeat for the fifth time, the principle of autonomy in the negotiation between the two parties. The question of income or concession fees is a normal question that can always be discussed. Again, I have to return the story to the beginning -- it's about good in general use and the natural resources that are the property of the Republic, and that's by definition public income. Public revenue under the Budget Law is paid to the Republic's budget, and that is the first position. The second view is that each year, by moving the date forward, fortunately, because we are going in this direction to talk about the budget in time, we are discussing the budget that should be deployed in a way that will satisfy the interests of Serbian citizens through what you are affecting the structure of the distribution of expenditure, that is, the way the funds coming from the concession, from privatisation, from those items of concession that are in the possession of the Republic. Is that distribution structure okay? It's the subject of your debate. Whether more should be given in infrastructure development - safe. Is this state able to give more to develop infrastructure -- it is currently limited to those benefits that need to be provided. It's also pensioners, and health care and education, etc. Fortunately, there are no governments in the world who would no longer single out money for infrastructure development. There were other governments, so money was spent in different ways. I think you've had objections about how money was spent in the previous system, but in that context, you're talking about household behavior, that the essence of how you define, in that story, is the national economy... Don't let us go back and tell the essence of the story and how the state funds were spent and where was the national economy that today looks what it looks like. We have one situation and we have this law and we can talk about some conceptual things, but if it's debated about the agency or not, if that's the difference, which I have to say, because that's what fellow MP National Socialists said, if 80% of the norms in the law are taken over, then your implicit hypothesis is that those 20% are no good, or I expect you to vote for the law because essentially the replication of this previous law is. I don't think so. Not to think, but I am convinced that this law represents a novelty. What you've been talking to the OSCE members -- believe me, we've established communication with everyone in the environment that exists, just trying to expose this law to the harsh treatment of those who are somewhere giving some kind of configuration whether it's something that is part of Europe or not. So I can say: we've talked to the European Union, we've talked to the World Bank, we've talked to not all of which institutions they've said -- this is the difference, this is a law that's different by spirit than the previous law. I'm sorry, but a public auction that involves collecting two calls is not a tender. It's a way of giving someone the opportunity to call those two without calling the other two. So, I apologize, but if we can only judge the 1997 Law on the basis of theory and practice, which completely dissuades the previous law, then I think it's the law itself, and why there was no concession and the quality of it ends here somewhere, with the utmost respect for everything that's been done in that law, which is true. And I said at first that some things can't be changed. We can't change what's the object of the concession. We can talk about whether something has to or can't. We can talk about the duration, the question is whether or not we should, we agreed that it's 30 years again. We can talk about some other things that have proven to be in technical matters, things that define certain elements about concessions, we've had similar visions. And maybe just one more technical detail, which is -- when a potential concessionaire appears in a tender, why is it given space that the state can (means not having to) conduct a new public tender or negotiate in terms of setting up a concessionaire. Because it can happen, and you know it very well, that in some areas there can really be only one who is interested in the concession. Is that why we're not going to give a concession where we have an interest in improving population standards and where development needs to be accelerated? No, I don't. No, I don't. No, I don't. Because there are criteria in the concession proposal and in the proposal for a concession act and in the contract, and finally, I apologize for having a little more communication with my colleague, Ivkovic, which is normal, because he was one of the builders of the previous law, is to make comments about some concessions, for example. how it will be given precisely to those who will be discussed in the National Assembly. So, the National Assembly will discuss both the thermal power plant and the roads of international and strategic importance, and all MPs will have the opportunity to say whether the state should give a concession in those areas. Don't let us hide behind what the government is doing. We have accepted the correct amendments of parliamentary groups that have said in some areas should be done by the National Assembly, because it is an interest that should be checked precisely in this home. I'm undermining it once again, and I've been doing a little bit of replicating some amendments, but believe me, the practice in the environment, and this one here, too, has shown that we have to stay away from some of the solutions that existed in the previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26378	Please, the word has been made by MP Branislav Ivkovic, a replica. Since MPs who are calling for Article 99 are coming from the bench. [[Sagar.]] Rules of Procedure, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26379	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that we are at the end of the session, it is clear that the same opinion on the need for even concession arrangements for the development of the Republic of Serbia, but it is clear that contracts can only be written by someone who created something and created it to sell. But when the Government of the Republic of Serbia writes contracts, Serbian citizens have the right to predetermin through legal projects, through their MPs, those essential elements of the contract that must surely be in the contract. Other things on the loose, but you have to know the reason why you enter the concession arrangement; you have to know the amount of income; you have to know the time of the duration. Simply, the difference between Mr Pitic's proposal and the law that already exists is that all of this has been simplified, everything has become fluid and it ends with the fact that the concession being the only participant in the public bidding through the tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-19-0.u26380	This concludes our work in the afternoon. We'll continue tomorrow, Thursday, February 20th at 10.00pm. We continue the debate in principle, and the first word will be held by SRS deputy president Tomislav Nikolic. Then, MPs Branimir Trajkovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic, as MPs who held a session of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, gave an opinion. Thank you.
