ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33420	Ladies and gentlemen, the scandal that took place in the Assembly on October 14th alone was enough for the president of the National Assembly to resign unrelentingly. Any serious and responsible politician, and if I were to use the language of Madam President of the National Assembly, I'd say normal, I'd definitely do it. On that day, Mrs Natasa Micic allowed 250 MPs to wait in this room for nine hours. In this way, the president of the National Assembly humiliated and humiliated the institution of the MP. Worse still, she humiliated and humiliated the citizens of Serbia, the voters who sent us to represent them and represent them in this parliament. While we waited nine hours for the session scheduled by Mrs. Natasa Micic to begin and for which the agenda itself suggested, we listened to the towers of the story of the journalist what was happening on the first floor, who bought whom, who asked, who paid, who cried, who cried, what did Ceda tell Orlic, what was Orlic Cedi. Of course, these are all possible and justified political ways of persuasion, but not that day when the National Assembly is scheduled. DOS MPs had to agree on it the previous days, not the day we were waiting for them here. Mrs Natasa Micic, also on 16 October, when this session finally started, showed that we with our proposal for its resolution were absolutely right, as she also showed various arches to MPs of different parliamentary groups on that day. As the agenda was determined, the first proposal was Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic and Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic asked, insisted on speaking, to explain her proposal, and Mrs Micic reacted as if Gordana Pop-Lazic had not been in the hall. Gordana Pop-Lazic even stood up to let her know she wanted to talk, but, of course, she was not given a chance. Afterwards, there was a proposal from Mr. Bojan Pitiæ, who was behind this pay phone, to my surprise, because I never noticed that he was looking for a word, nor that he had received a word. Mrs. President didn't warn him, and she let him speak. The third proposal was Mr. Dejan Michael, who apparently did not intend to explain his proposal, did not answer to speak, and Mrs. President asked - Mr. Michael, do you want to explain your proposal? So everyone in this room can explain their proposal, except for the representatives of the SRS. When she spoke to the MPs, Madam President of the Assembly said she was ready to hear what the MPs had to say about her work as Parliament's president. After that speech, she left the session with Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic and no longer returned to the O.R. that day. At that time, she also said she was sorry that her trust was being discussed precisely on our initiative, and I say that I am glad and that we are proud that we, our proposal to resolve Natasha Micic, have removed the masks from the DOS, have finally shown the citizens of Serbia what we have long claimed - that DOS does not exist, that DOS does not have a majority in this assembly and that Mrs. President will not have a majority when voting on the proposal for its resolution. The proposal of a group of MPs for the resolution of the National Assembly of Natasa Micic was based solely on arguments and notorial facts which are reflected in its daily abuses of functions, violation of basic human rights and overstepping the powers arising from the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Article 28. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly prescribes that the President of the National Assembly shall carry out the tasks provided for in the Constitution, chair the meetings of the National Assembly, take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, on other tasks provided for in the law and on this Rules of Procedure. Since the post of National Assembly President, Ms Natasa Micic has been knowingly violating this Rules of Procedure, which is normally restrictive enough and does not allow MPs to represent the citizens who elected them to this parliament. Otherwise, this Rules of Procedure was brought in at the time of the single DOS, when the Democratic Party of Serbia was within the DOS, and its application to the realization of Natasha Micic is a harsh violation of the basic principles of democracy and parliamentaryism. The application of the double arches and the obvious imposition of inequality between the MPs is a regular conduct of the president of the National Assembly. We are all witnesses, when a member of the opposition is found behind the pay phone, above all an MP of the Serbian Radical Party, and when someone from the hall throws, shouts, interferes with the work of the MP and when he who is behind the speaker draws attention to the president that he is distracted by another MP, Mrs Natasa Micic would answer - so you too are violating the Rules of Procedure, and you are distracting others. Is that how the Rules of Procedure is applied by the President of the National Assembly? Mrs. Natasa Micic has never been able to behave impartially, objectively and justly as the first among the equals at the chair table. On a television show ten days ago, Mrs. Natasa Micic said her presidency would remain remembered for ousting Serbian radicals from the assembly hall. Indeed, the persecution of Serbian Radical Party MPs in this assembly hall was evident all the time during Ms. Natasa Micic's chairmanship. It was an unremembered political persecution of political inexperience. Detachment from the session is normally regulated by Article 104. Rules of Procedure; I will read the position of the 2nd member who says: "The distance from the session can be expressed to the MP and without measures previously spoken, in the event of a physical attack, or another similar procedure that threatens the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session, in the building of the National Assembly". Based on this member, Natasa Micic excluded from the meeting of Steve Dragisic and Bozidar Vučurovic, who were not at all in the National Assembly Hall that day, but were not in the National Assembly building. The warnings to the MPs and the punishment of the MPs were a daily integral part of the work of Madam President of the National Assembly. She gave Mr. Zoran Krasic a warning because he spoke two seconds longer than allowed time, or he just said the last word of his presentation. In this way, Mrs Natasa Micic took more than two million dinars from the ethnic MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and, interestingly, we never found out what was going on with the money, where the two million dinars that were taken by Serbian Radical Party MPs went.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33421	Are you using the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33422	No, in the next part, I will talk about the violation of Mrs. Natasa Micic's constitution, and I hope this was enough for the citizens of Serbia to realize that Serbia has never had a worse president than Natasha Micicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33423	Before I give word to the messenger of the people, Dejan Michael, one word to the people's congregation. National MP Stevan Liliæ announced his absence, but today he is present at the assembly session, so I ask that this correction enters the stenogram that MP Stevan Liliæ is present. National MP Velimir Simonovic can only get his word in the discussion of the principle, five minutes after the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word comes from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33424	According to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, under Article 81, where it is said about when and how much the Assembly is working, I have one proposal to make a decision that until the first, second and third points of the agenda are exhausted, the Assembly is working both on Monday and Friday. Not only on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, but on Mondays and Fridays, so we can get these agenda points done as soon as possible. My proposal is that the Assembly works on Mondays and Fridays, so all five working days a week.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33425	I would like to vote on Parliamentarian Dejan Michael's proposal that the National Assembly sessions be held on Mondays and Fridays, except for the usual Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, as per the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 64, against 36, abstentions 14, 35 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of MP Dejan Michael. I ask the MPs to keep quiet, if we cannot obey each other in full silence, by respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we shall make this session possible. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving to a debate in order of the MPs, and according to reports, we are going to search for a motion to resolve the president of the National Assembly. National MP Velimir Simonovic is entitled to five minutes under the Rules of Procedure, Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33426	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not take part in the debate on Mrs. Micic. I don't care much about that debate, I just know how I'm going to vote. I have something else I want to say here. I'm protesting. Here's what happened. When we voted on the agenda, I probably wasn't in the O.R. at some point and I didn't vote for the value added tax bill either for, or against, or abstention. So I was out of the O.R. at that point. But Mr Djelic makes a statement recorded in today's press, which reads: "those who voted last week to remove some law etc. are people who don't want good to this country." So I'm a man who doesn't want this country any better. "I ask these gentlemen," said Djelic, "and these are radicals, socialists, the SS, etc. Expert Sredoje Mihajlov and MP Prof. Simonovic from the Democratic Centre, who was voting, the hour is not, why they did not vote in favour of my proposals." And the Flash says this way about me: "who voted 20 seconds before this and 40 seconds after that vote." So Djelic gets lists and he controls MPs. Gentlemen, that's impossible. Only we control the minister, not the ministers. I expect the Parliament's presidency to protest with the government and protect the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33427	The first registered speaker in the debate, and according to a request for a search for a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly president, is MP Dragan Tomic. He's not in the O.R. After him is the word of the messenger of the people Zivko Selakovic, and after him the messenger of the people Bogoljub Zecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33428	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard various opinions in the debate so far; there have been correct opinions, but even incorrect, and even inappropriate, which were mostly. The Serbian Peasant Party has no intention of defending anyone if he has worked badly, nor does Mrs. Natasa Micic, the president of the Serbian parliament, whose confidence we are holding at this session. The Peasant Party of Serbia and I as its People's MP would feel dishonest and dishonest to keep quiet what the president has done so far in the Serbian Parliament in a positive sense. It is not great wisdom to face a fact in which Mrs. Micic's time and circumstances took over as president of the Serbian Parliament. (President: I ask the MPs to try to control their will for each other's conversation or at least to give the level of noise they create by talking to each other to a decent amount of decibel, so that the MP can address the National Assembly. Here you go, MP. ) Since the very beginning of her work in the Serbian Parliament, a plan and a scenario has been made immediately to help the presidents work, not to help her as colleagues. Understandably, MPs of the opposition have done so, in some ways, the opposition's job is to bring down power, in this case to replace the president of the Serbian Parliament. In contrast, it is incomprehensible that some members of the DOS group do so, and it is known that they have sworn their allegiance to the citizens of Serbia on 5 October 2000, that they will seek to introduce a new course in the work of parliament, a safer life for Serbian citizens and the stability of the country and others. What they're doing doesn't look like that oath. I'll be honest with you about what MPs we're talking about. These are MPs of the Social Democratic Party, and we know that they have also become MPs with whom they have maintained the status of MPs. Who can't be listened to, can leave. [[Sagar.]] I rightly ask the question, are they ready to take responsibility for the citizens of Serbia for God's sake, not to list everything.... Why today we keep silent that we MPs should ask ourselves about misbehavior towards Mrs Natasa Micic, as Parliament's president, and that is when individuals with various insults, humiliation (and not counting everything), publicly disrupted her reputation primarily as Parliament's president and her as a person. Can a man stay indifferent to all that? Should we keep quiet about the fact that Mrs. Micic has had the strength to introduce emergency measures in Serbia, I leave it on every MP's conscience. Let us remind ourselves that Mrs Micic has long been the acting president of Serbia, means another great responsibility and burden, given the importance of both functions she still performs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Peasant Party of Serbia and me as a People's MP of the party, it is very important, correct and commendable for Mrs Micic that since the day of the proposal to the Serbian Parliament to vote in confidence with her as president of the Serbian Parliament, she has asked herself to accept this proposal and discuss its work or trust. It is the president's democratic move not to run away from responsibility and the final outcome in parliament after the debate is over. The Serbian Peasant Party, appreciating this gesture and the political tolerance of the president of the Serbian Parliament, has given me the consent to vote against the resolution of the president of the Serbian Parliament, Ms. Natasa Micic, and we continue to give her support for the post of president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33429	The People's Messenger, Bogoljub Zečević, has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people took Michael. National MP Bogoljub Zečević is not present in the session room. The People's Messenger Sredoja Mihajlov has the word, followed by the Messenger Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33430	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of Parliament, unfortunately, I will vote for President Natasa Micic's shift, no matter how recently I was there and pointed out some failures. I didn't have a chance, I didn't want to say it in public, and now I have to explain why I can't support Mrs. President staying in that position. First and foremost, I'm going to start right out of those reasons that you're running for, that's exactly why I'm going to say, just listen. Mrs. Comic, I need you to time me this, which... just for those reasons. Mrs. Micic, we promised the people on October 5th that we would be different from these and those who sit there. So for 13 years, I have promised the people that we would be different and that we would bring here into this home and set up competent, responsible, honest, unsuspecting, respectable, honorable, and those who would present this Serbia in the right way. Mrs. Micic, you have, by your inaction, led to the fact that no one else in Serbia, but no one believes there is an honorable man, that there is someone who has done something about the idea. You've led to it, you, gentlemen, have led to the fact that the president was just talking about trade. You're just talking about the store. It doesn't occur to you that there's someone who's done something out of conviction. That's something to be ashamed of, so I don't want to be with you. Gentlemen, you have brought into Serbia a call of doubt that there is no honest man here among us. That's what's terrible and that's why I can't support you on that. That's the scariest thing, because I have no way of explaining that it doesn't have anything to do with it and that I did something out of persuasion. Who? Gentlemen, that's the scariest thing you've ever done to the Serbs. Second, even if I convince them, they'll say, the fool took it. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: And you took it? On behalf of those, Milka, I thought you were on that right side. I'm telling you right now, I'm not inviting God to see what you're doing and who I supported. I'll remind you again, there's Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Pajtic, that in two years' time I've spoken, and there's a college, that whoever opens the door and asks for something personal, not this lobbying for his end, his city, etc., who looks for himself personally, invites me to tell him how the door closes on the outside. Everybody knows that, all the gentlemen who listened to me there. You gentlemen didn't hear that. The fact is, you think it's all about money and it can't be different, there's no fair. That's what insults me and what humiliates me and what you've offended me very much for. I don't know, gentlemen dear, and I can't say if any of you took anything, nor would I have the courage and the courage to say that someone took it without any evidence. Some of the evidence I'm going to try to show you, and I would never take the courage to say that someone is a thief if I didn't know. You gentlemen knew exactly that there was no store, but that's why you said calmly, yes. Mr. Zivkovic knew exactly that I didn't take anything, that I didn't list the other gentlemen. The one who made the impression of the week, thanks to his statement, becomes a hero. I'll tell you one thing, where I think there's a store, and you say there isn't. I'd like to say in principle why I can't support you. I supported for a long time, I did for reforms, I was the one who thought we should do it, but I can't support it anymore. Here's the end. I thought you should hear the voice of some others, tell you that you've gone a little astray. There are just as many of you as I do, except they don't have the guts to come and say what I said. I know that. Let me remind you. As you can explain, 51 MPs signed that a candidate for the Vice-President of the Assembly should be a man who entered the party as a minor, a man who organized the first meeting of the Resistance, a man who is a member of a party, etc., and has no place where he graduated from elementary school or high school. Gentlemen, why do you need more proof? Was it the fruit of your belief that we should have had as vice president of the Parliament of Men with these characteristics, or was it a trade? (President: six minutes. ) Thank you very much. I'd still have to say it, but my time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33431	The basis for the replica - mentioning by name, MP Milka Marinkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33432	Says Mr. - He thought I was on the right side. Sir, I did. Since I've been born, especially in the last 13 years, since I've been a member of the Democratic Party and since I've been fighting for better Serbia, since I've been fighting for your child, not just for mine, I haven't changed anything, I'm here where I've been and I'll be until Serbia becomes the way it should be, despite you and the like. You know what our people say - who about what, unfair about honesty. If that's not the case, why are you making excuses for yourself for half an hour? I don't care if you're bought or not. I don't care because I care about my life, my soul, my child, my Serbia, and you see how you will justify yourself before your generations, in front of your children, your grandchildren, because no matter how many people swear to Christianity, who laughed when Zoran Djindjic died, I am a believer and I believe that... Mr. Martian, your mouth was this big when we cried and walked out of the O.R., and you laughed. That's what Christians, Serbs, nationalists do. I believe in God and let God judge those who know how much the euro cost their vote. As for supporting people like you, we don't want that support. We do not support people who can be bought, but we want the support of Serbian citizens who think and know that me and my colleagues, and you keep quiet, are on the right track.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33433	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, followed by MP Simo Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33434	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is common in the history of parliamentary practice that the new president of the Assembly is always trying to bring some newspaper into the work of the Assembly and usually because of his conduct in those first months, he likes both the public and the MPs. What happens later, but it is not an exception to Madam President, in the heads of these people, it is not clear to me, but obviously, if we remember all the former presidents of the Assembly, that in time they begin to change their relationship to the other MPs and, ultimately, through that relationship and to the public who chose them. When it comes to the President (still president) of the Assembly, I have a number of principled objections, and the first problem is that the reputation of this assembly is not kept in all places and on all occasions, in the way we expect it from the first among the equals, which is the President of the Assembly. We have now had the opportunity to have the President of the Assembly of a graduate lawyer, so I, as a colleague of our president, had the confidence that we would work under the Constitution and by law, and I hoped that this particular struggle for the protection of the profession, regardless of where you are, would also contribute to this assembly working under the Constitution, based on the applicable law and especially the Rules of Procedure. It is true that the Rules of Procedure have been mutilated and that we as MPs have been reduced to the level that our discussions can last for a minute and 20 seconds, and many other handicaps, however, it is the President of the Assembly who could make this work much better. If you compare it with people from other professions, you know you'll never get two engineers to argue, if it's their profession, that two doctors will always agree, or more of them, to protect each other and help each other. However, we had a case here that our president was very easy, even in his presentation that we had a few days ago, says the Constitution is not a letter of God, in that sense, that it should not be respected. As long as one constitution applies, it should be respected. In particular, speaking of the Constitution, I believe that the next members of the Constitution -- a member of 74, who speaks of the National Assembly having 250 MPs, are being elected in direct elections, and that the end of the term of office is also being determined by law. That member is not respected at all. In fact, the President of the Assembly cannot say that he did not participate in everything that has happened, related to the mandates, related to the way in which the elections were made, and this has returned as a boomerang to the ruling majority, given the current situation and the fact that they are dissatisfied with the Constitutional Court's decision and are now trying to get things back to that period before this famous decision. What will happen to the Constitutional Court, whether something will change there to change that decision and we will see it, but in any case it has returned as a boomerang of the ruling majority. As for Article 78. The constitution, which regulates the work of the president of the Assembly, can also be seen by that member and you will make sure that he is not respected on several occasions. Also, Article 82, which regulates the work of the Assembly and how the rights and duties of MPs are exercised. We MPs had every right to expect the President of the Assembly to allow us to use our rights in the right way. I would particularly like to mention a member of 87 speaking about the election of the President of the Republic and the termination of the term of office of the President of the Republic. That member must have been drastically violated. I will only mention, to remind the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we were forced to vote at the session of the Committee whether or not we were in breach of the Constitution. It's a thing that can never be voted on in any place, and then we voted not to violate the Constitution and we chose V.D. The president for a very long period, here's almost a year. I would also refer to a few things the president said in her presentation. She mentioned that the Constitution was not brought in and that she was late. One of the most responsible people in the state is certainly the President of the Assembly, if the Constitution is late, and it is certain that she could have done a lot there and started early with the amendment of the Constitution. Of course, I think that the period that was appropriate, which is after taking power for one six months, is quite enough for the ruling majority, which was really a large majority at the time, to bring a new constitution. After that, many other circumstances interfered, so the Constitution was no longer what was expected of him. Today you can see how the Constitutional Commission is working and you can see that we are at a dead end waiting for the Venice Commission to come to us, dictate a new text. Also, the president spoke of a case taken from office. We cannot say that the ruling majority, led by the president of the assembly, is not responsible for the removal of office. If someone thinks it doesn't matter and doesn't have an impact on it, then they don't have to perform this function. Also, when it comes to the Constitutional Charter, we have had opportunities here to participate in several harsh violations of the Constitution in the adoption of many laws, and we have pointed to that. I'll just remind you of a series of omnibus laws, and then when we adopted the Constitutional Charter, we were practically put before the final act and we didn't get a chance to discuss it properly, we didn't have a chance to submit the amendments. In fact, we were the verification committee of a group of negotiators, which is now not together. After all, we are the largest legislative body in this country, and we should have discussed it first, and then we should have further negotiations. You mentioned the lustration proposed by the Civil Union of Serbia, the lustration law adopted here. Also, within one store, it was necessary to adopt that moment in order to write about it for a few days, and that perhaps something else, which we may not see or see, would pass by this law. It has been said that it is a face-to-face with the past, with its works, and all of us MPs here have the opportunity to see for ourselves what we have done and how we have acted, and of course those in responsible functions certainly will have to think much more about it. I would also say that a little inappropriately mentioned here was the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic. I don't think now is the time or place to mention it. I was particularly bothered by that, because I don't think this man really is to blame for what's going on here right now. The vision of Serbia under new authority, ideas since 5 October, etc., has been discussed. I think it's ancient history. On October 5th, the opposition united and collapsed one regime, which was then, and now we're three years behind it and we should talk about some much more important things. I haven't heard what you said, but in any case, I think it's history and that what's going on right now should be worked on, that it should take care of the standard of citizens, that it should take care of constitutionality and legality, which is the first task of the president of the Assembly, and if this is how the Assembly and state run it, then the whole of Serbia would look like something. You must admit, with all the blindness of power, that the current situation is not good and that there is much to do. I think this debate about trusting the president of the assembly is also a waste of time and we have a lot of more pressing jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33435	The word is by MP Sima Radulovic, followed by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The word has a National MP Dragan Ljubojevic, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic, who reported having an Administrative Committee; and Mr Radulovic is also a member of the Committee. Therefore, the Members of Parliament who have meetings of the Committee will be given a word after they have completed their duties on the Committee. The word is by MP Dragan Ljubojevic, followed by MP Zoran Angelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, yesterday's TV "Pink" broadcast news that the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an initiative to resolve Stevan Lilic from the member of the Constitutional Commission and will insist that the debate on the replacement of the National Assembly president and on the confidence of the government be postponed and that this agenda be discussed. We have submitted this initiative, but for the sake of truth, we have waited three years for the debate on the president of the National Assembly and on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and did not ask for the session to be postponed. We voted in favour of working on Monday and Friday, while MPs of the assembly minority in this case, and they still represent themselves, and they think most of them didn't want to work on Mondays and Fridays. As for this item of the agenda and the motion to replace Natasa Micic from the seat of the National Assembly, there are political reasons for this shift, and there are purely legal and constitutional reasons, i.e. its violation of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. As for political reasons, the president of the National Assembly and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or those who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, spoke in their presentations on the first item of the agenda, are all about the policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the group belonging to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons why this is a good policy are five-six phrases that DOS has been placing on Serbian citizens since 5 October, and is primarily insisting on reforms, and we all know very well and we are aware of what these reforms look like in practice. It consists of a million unemployed, thirteen billion dollars in deficits, company sale and planned re-possessing of Serbian citizens through the law on planning and construction, through legalisation, which is why the government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government plan to take ten billion dollars. Of course we Serbian radicals against such a policy. We insist on reforms, but indeed on real reforms. As for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I must return to that 14th October, because I was also nine hours hostage and president of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because no one has come down to the hall for the nine hours and informed the MPs that the session of the National Assembly is being postponed by an hour, two, three or five or 16 October, only at 18.45 hours did the Vice-President of the National Assembly of Mrs Gordana Komic inform us that the session is being postponed for 16 October. This is a disrespect for all 247 or 248 MPs, as many as were in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on that day, and that is enough reason to resign, if not, at least apologize to the MPs for being here without any notice, without any reason sitting for nine hours. As president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have broken the Constitution several times; there is also a Constitutional Court decision on one such act, therefore, as proof that the Constitution has been violated, although you have been mildly and severally warned that immediately after the end of those December presidential elections you have the obligation to re-schedul presidential elections, and so until either the constitution or the law is changed or the president of the Republic of Serbia is elected. You disobeyed it, called the presidential elections only in September 2003, and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia decided that you had violated the constitution. You know, when an ordinary citizen breaks the law for it there is a sanction, there is a responsibility, and, at the very least, when the Constitutional Court's decision came, the act of resignation was to recognise the jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, because it was the Constitutional Court, chosen by the DOS majority; it was to make discriminatory decisions in its term of office, and it was by not making any decisions to bring chaos into this National Assembly and into a complete socio-legal system in the Republic of Serbia. The court was legally elected, they made a decision and every decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected. Also, the decision to return the term of office taken by the Constitutional Court is not being carried out and you are skillfully hiding behind the Administrative Board, which is indeed due to return the mandates under the Rules of Procedure, i.e. to follow the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. The least you could do in that case is insist on the Administrative Board because you have a commercial right to inform the National Assembly that the Administrative Board does not implement the Constitutional Court's decision. We have a situation today where several mandates are controversial, that I do not underline and repeat those 12 disputed mandates where the situation is extremely clear, extremely clean, because 12 MPs have resigned, resignations have been verified and new MPs have come instead, and after a time of 12 MPs, I am talking about those who resigned, they have said that they are in legal error. They resigned, the resignation was established, and there was an end to the story of their 12 mandates. Any decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia taken with the participation of those 12 MPs will be brought down in one normal constitutional court, not this which is indeed a political Constitutional Court, because we have the President of the Constitutional Court who is a member of the G17 Plus, one Constitutional Court judge who is a member of the Democratic Party and then in the public after the Constitutional Court's decision or when an initiative comes before the Constitutional Court one represents the positions of the G17 Plus, one of the positions of the Democratic Party, and no one respects the Constitution and the laws of this country and acts accordingly. The President of the National Assembly applied the frigid Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which was brought in; the basic original Rules of Procedure, which provides for fines and sanctions for MPs, was brought in when the DOS had 170 MPs, therefore in that original form, and it is indeed absurd for MPs, who under Article 77. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia cannot be called on to be held accountable for the opinion or vote in the National Assembly (although we have not yet had a case of penalty for voting) to be fined. In the end, I would also have to warn the president of the National Assembly, and first of all, you from the GSS that you are not calling on the election will of the citizens. The electoral will of citizens is something that is sacred, the electoral will of citizens all must respect, but don't you who once took part in the elections alone to hide behind the electoral will of the citizens, because when you participated in the elections you were a statistical mistake. You didn't have a single percentage of the vote. I would suggest, while there is still time for you to submit the amendment and ensure that most of those 2% proposed by the SDP are dropped to 0.2% and that you have some chance of entering parliament. Do not be fooled and think that the citizens of September 2000 voted for either of you or that they voted for Natasa Micic to be the president of the Assembly, that Goran Svilanovic should be the foreign minister, that Gašo Knezevic be the minister of education, that Radmila Hrustanovic be the president of the City Assembly, because if you think so, you should consult with some experts who are competent to say something more competent than I am, but I am sure that the electoral will of the citizens was different on October 5th, i.e. that they certainly did not vote for you, and I am sure that if you have the courage and go to some subsequent elections you will not be a statistical error.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33437	The People's MP Zoran Angelkovic has the word, followed by MP Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33438	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the SPS did not question when the previous president of parliament was changed and elected new that the parliamentary majority (which is the parliamentary majority), at the time it was clear, and today, of course, it is not clear, because it is clear that the parliamentary majority is no longer the majority) has the president of parliament. This was not disputed, as it was not disputed that at those times when Parliament's president was elected, the oldest MP chaired it; then the parliamentary majority did not mind, because the vice-president who was the oldest and who chaired it correctly and showed that one parliamentary president should act, tolerance to all MPs, in the same way and in a correct manner towards each MP, regardless of which political party he belonged. Here, now that Parliament's president is being discussed, the biggest problem is whether Ljubisa Maravic will be chaired by an hour, two or three until the new speaker is elected. Otherwise, if Ljubisa Maravić were not the oldest MP, it would not be a problem for the parliamentary majority at all, because of those statements that have been heard these days, that the shift of Natasa Micic, because, behold, we will easily reach the new speaker of parliament, but those hours or two while Ljubisa Maravić presides, is the biggest problem for Serbia and so Natasa Micic cannot be replaced. It's actually the main embarrassment of this parliament, that kind of thinking about the vice president of parliament that you've also chosen, because the SPS itself couldn't choose him. It is, in fact, your intolerant relationship and it is a politically intolerant relationship that Natasa Micic has shown here in parliament towards other MPs. Of course, the most important thing for Parliament's president is that he is not scarred, because he is a speaker, and that every MP and every MP group is looking at him in the same way. Unfortunately, we couldn't see it here, we haven't been able to spot it or feel it since Natasha Micic. We didn't see or feel, on the contrary, and at a meeting last week when Natasa Micic gave her speech, she showed her aversion. She showed in fact the way she thinks -- she's going to be on October 5th, she's about to cut off the other heads, it's going to end the process. That's not how the President of Parliament can do it. Parliament's president must behave differently if he wants to be accepted by all MPs in this parliament. The SPS believes that the parliamentary majority should have the president of parliament, but he should be in the image of one professor Velje Simonovic, who respects all MPs and who in the same way observes all MPs, not in the image of Natasa Micic, who only watches whom opposition MPs will fine or throw him out of the hall. It is the essence of the political existence of one of the parliament's presidents. You know, Dragan Tomic, the previous speaker of parliament, could be Professor Natasi Micic, to show, even if he disagrees with the opposition MPs, in which way he does so, elegantly remove them from the pay phone. What do we think of Dragan Tomic in private, that's another question. I'm talking about the President of Parliament. Secondly, what does it matter to the President of Parliament? It is necessary that he be a service to the MPs, to fight for the MPs. Take, for example, how our president fought for MPs or the electoral will of MPs. Before explaining how the president fought for the electoral will of MPs, I listened to the Prime Minister's interview, because I need to hear what the Prime Minister thinks, to know what he thinks wrong or what he thinks well, and I heard that it is a disgrace, that it is a disaster that the political party, which is two and a half years younger than the parliamentary elections, becomes a parliamentary party, that it is incredibly, unheard, that it did not happen anywhere in the world that G-17, which was created two and a half years after the parliamentary elections, became a parliamentary party. And today I have heard here that the grandchildren will remember that it is stealing MPs' mandates and going from one party to the other and that they are doing so by the Constitutional Court's decision. However, I absolutely agree with the Prime Minister. By a decision before the Constitutional Court's decision, only by the inert relationship of Parliament's president, the SPS had lost seven parliamentary mandates, by stealing the parliamentary majority, by refusing to implement the Law on the selection of MPs, which made it clear that when the political party seeks a replacement, it must be replaced, that when a MP's resignation is delivered, it should be established. Neither of them have been done here. It wasn't the Constitutional Court's decision back then. Gentlemen, why didn't the Prime Minister talk about it then? Why didn't the Prime Minister or the President of Parliament make that decision at the time? You'll say it's to be done by the Administrative Board. What administrative committee? The Management Board said -- they got some paper then, a citizen sent a paper to, like, set up a convention and that's why we can't discuss it. They also said to excuse Serbian citizens for apologizing, a mockery of the electoral will of citizens. (President: National MP, perhaps the citizens of Serbia will apologize, but the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will not, and I give you a warning about what kind of words are... ). I also accept punishment, not just a warning, but I have to tell the truth, because it was true, essentially. Seven parliamentary mandates were stolen from the SPS by Parliament's own will and parliamentary majority. Now, by decision of the Constitutional Court, that's fine. And then if it were the Constitutional Court's decision, we'd be silent, we'd respect it. Of course, when we have to respect, when there's a lot of them and they decide it's seven, they take it from you. The point is that it is the responsibility of the president of parliament, that she did not want to comply with the law, that she did not implement that decision and that it did not lead to the political power relationship here in parliament as it is by law and that Serbian citizens decided in the December 2000 elections. Where will you take greater political responsibility, where will you take greater personal responsibility? Change your relationship in parliament to what it isn't -- that's something that's unheard of -- that's something, as a Democratic Party MP here said earlier, which is why generations will remember you. You stole the election will, seven MPs, and that's 200,000 voters. You stole 200,000 votes and transferred them from the SPS to the parliamentary majority. Where will you take greater political responsibility? Does it need something bigger than that, some greater political responsibility? You're moaning now because one MP has moved to G-17. That's 30 grand, but that's 200 grand. Why didn't you do it? You didn't want to do it. So, Mrs. Natasha, it was correct for you to leave on your own. The second question is for what is said here in parliament to be present in public. Of course, when "Sabre" was introduced and you brought orders about "Sabre" and it would come somewhere else. After all, all we're saying here today is a political debate. Whether you're going to survive politically or not, that's less important, but I'm quite sure and I don't think there's any need to convince each other that the epilogue of this will, in the end, be in court. Without the final court process and about the parliamentary mandates and the documents, about the introduction of an emergency, whether it was by law and by the Constitution or not, it certainly can't end without it. What kind of epilogue will be here, we'll see at the end, when this vote is over. About direct TV transmissions. A state of emergency has been introduced and it is said - we will no longer have direct TV transmissions so as not to disturb the citizens. It wasn't said at the time that RTS wouldn't carry, it was said that we wouldn't disturb the citizens. Okay, we don't want to disturb the citizens, we'll talk without television. It's going through a state of emergency, so now it says - RTS is a broadcasting service. First, that's not true. We passed the law, the law is not implemented because there is no broadcasting service, because no board of directors has been formed, no company for Serbia's broadcasting has been formed. So they're still RTS. The second thing, they finance themselves, past the Assembly's decision, from the Republika Srpska's budget, by the decision of Minister Djelic. How else would we get the money? And that's when the SPS advocated that the RTS funds were foreseen in the budget, but since they weren't foreseen they couldn't be given. Now you're giving funds, and they're saying -- we're a broadcasting service, and the president is fine with it -- that we're not harassing citizens, we don't need parliament. That's where Natasa Micic certainly contributed to no direct TV transmissions, except when she thinks it suits her. Then we come to what is, in the end, crucial in this debate, which is the listing, that is the vote in this House: the vote on lustration and the vote on Kora Udovicki. It's not just a question of voting, it's a matter of listing. If it is a public vote, then the listing of the moment must be made available to every MP, to every journalist who has been accredited in this assembly, because it is a public vote, to know who is public about what he voted for. We here in parliament, by the decision of the President of the Assembly, have no right as MPs, nor as a parliamentary group, to list. How can you forbid me to see who voted as an MP at a public vote? The voters must see how whoever voted for something they proposed, whether he voted the way the voters would or wouldn't. Parliament's president decides you can't get a list. For a full three months, we waited, like the SPS, to get a list of lustrations. We wrote three times to the president of the Assembly and we didn't get it on written request, and when the president of the Assembly went to RTS, she said - some minor parties got that list. The next day we just got a list. Whether we're minor or not, we're MPs. And when a group of MPs is artificial, of five, you must respect them, while you have formed them and accepted them as artificial. It's inadmissible to hide a public document and turn it into a secret. By what decision did you give yourself the right to make the listing a secret document? On what grounds do you allow the listing to be a secret document, when it comes to public voting? I ask that in future this parliament make a decision that every MP can take the list at the same time and that any accredited journalist may have that list. According to the Rules of Procedure, this is a public vote, and any public vote must be made available to the public. Of course, it's the last thing about voting itself. It is clear that neither the lustration law nor the election of Cora Udovicki was enough MPs here. After all, when it came to Cora Udovici, that there were not enough messengers, there were not 126, that was what we heard from the apostle Rafaelic himself. He said he wasn't, he was sitting in a bar. It's his right to sit wherever he wants. Whether he's going to the bar or at the church, that's his business, but he wasn't at the parliament meeting. That makes 125 MPs. We don't even have to talk about others. That's not enough for a quorum. The president of parliament has a monitor in front of him and can see if anyone is in the O.R., especially when 126 is and when that 126 is running here in parliament for two and a half hours, to ensure that there are 126 and none. Therefore, it was clear to all of us that the eyes were on that screen and that it had to be checked whether or not there were enough MPs. When such a situation occurs, the speaker of parliament should not be further president of this parliament. And, of course, as far as the presidential elections are concerned, you can't wait a year to discuss the presidential elections, because the president thought the constitution would be over. She knew the president would not be finished when the Constitutional Commission was formed the way it was formed. But even if she didn't know and knew she did, the presidential elections must be called as soon as the previous cycle is over, not waiting a year, then calling overnight, when the debate on parliamentary elections begins. Therefore, because of all of this, it is necessary and it would be best for Natasa Micic to remain an MP, and if you were to propose someone, when I say you think of the parliamentary majority that will be formed, the president of parliament who will be president of all MPs here and in the same way treat them with respect and a correct relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33439	The People's MP Stanko Kovačević has the word, and after him, the MP Stevan Ž. Gudurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33440	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have on the agenda the initiative of a non-discipline coalition, which has established in this parliament and outside this parliament a strategy for the destruction of parliament and the government of Serbia. He wants to achieve his goals with one synchronised activity in parliament, on the street and in businesses. It is normal, starting from the first point, from the vote of distrust of the president of the National Assembly, Ms. Natasa Micic. They came from an honorable, professional and responsible president, who managed to eliminate political vandalism in this parliament, contribute to the reduction of political unculture and create normal conditions for the work of MPs. For this reason, I am not surprised at the applicants of the initiative, gentlemen of the radicals, because it is normal to be against the one who brought them into the political culture behind this speaker. And how surprised we are to those of the DOS Group who joined those of the non-discipline coalition and joined this debate and this activity. This has shown that they are not capable and that they are not politically wise and strong enough to bear the burden of responsibility for the exercise of power, and it is good that they have shown that we in DOS know who we can count on to achieve our goals. I'm just going to analyze both the second and third initiatives with three short aspects. First, from the point of view of the applicant of the initiative (it is opposition parties, radicals, socialists, Party of Serbian Unity, which is completely normal and legal, or legitimate), from the aspect of the initiative and from the aspect of the famous Serbian male chauvinism. The first aspect, normally, is that opposition parties are looking for the president's shift, which makes it impossible for them to work for this speaker what they did. But it is not normal for such an initiative to be joined not only by the Social Democratic Party, but also by some MPs from other members of the DOS coalition. I need to talk to you. Is there a human and moral responsibility for the conduct of this House? The third aspect, male chauvinism. Men in this House are not ready to accept and to bear the fact that a capable woman, who has shown herself to be wiser and more capable than many of us, was found at the head of this Parliament. That is why they joined and gave their vote and will come out for this pay phone, to speak in favour of President Natasa Micic's recall. Let's assume that both the applicant of the initiative and the escorts of the initiatives and macho chauvinists in this parliament realize, say, their quest to voice mistrust with the Serbian government. And who, then, will the citizens of Serbia trust to exercise power? Perhaps the prime minister in the government of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who, by his very behaviour and accession to the non-discipline coalition, showed not only that he should not be entrusted with power but rather that he should be analysed slightly differently, and that you should analyse it from what aspect - from what many experts have demanded, that all state officials, elected and appointed, must pass the psychotest. Why am I saying this? Watch when Mr. Martian walks into this door and gets to his seat, he's able to make a dozen completely unsuspecting faces, sometimes stretching out his tongue. Well, don't you trust a man like that with authority and put a man like that at the same table. (President: People's Parliament, please stick to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. ) Put him for the same thing as Shredder, Blair, Shirak, and others. Serbia has not fallen for this and therefore Serbia will take good care of whom it trusts in the next elections to exercise power. Finally, dear gentlemen and friends, one message for all of you and the citizens of Serbia: On March 15th of this year, Serbia took the list to the streets, sat next to the TV screen to pay tribute to the first democratic prime minister killed and the president of the Democratic Party, in order to show and express her support for everything he has done. I am convinced that Serbia will also go to polling stations on 16 November and in the first next parliamentary elections and trust the authorities of those who have shown that they are capable of leading this Serbia rightly the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33441	Replica. The right to replica has the mandated representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, MP Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33442	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Stanko Kovacevic insulted the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group in his presentation and you did not respond to the insult. Whether we are politically uncultural or not, it will show citizens in the next elections, first on this 16 November when they will plead; those who are better now will vote for Dragoljub Micunovic, and those who live much worse than they were before will certainly vote for Tomislav Nikolic. I ask you, do you deny us our constitutional right and our parliamentary right to submit the proposal we made? You're talking about an unprincipled coalition. Well, is there a more unprincipled coalition than the DOS? Mr Kovacevic, gentlemen of the DOS, we from the Serbian Radical Party are not to blame that DOS acted as horns in the bag and that the horns began to fall out of the bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33443	The word has the People's Messenger Stevan Ž. Guduric, and after him the People's Messenger Jon Cismash.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33444	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, finally came to this assembly for the wallpaper and president of the Assembly to discuss it, so the government came, and this is something that is very normal and there is no special play to be made about. I think the President of the Assembly, by working in the Assembly, deserved to come to the wallpaper and see if she deserved to leave the post in the majority view. I wouldn't argue here with one of the previous debaters, because I don't think this is the place for the Socialists to turn their backs on each other, but was it expected for the DOS coalition to last longer? I think this is too long, too, because if we look at a folk proverb, she says, "What's a grandmother's kilo children," 18 parties hold power, and they've held for a long time if we take it and what they're all made of. Let those who are truly worthless and worth nothing be offended, only by a set of happy or unfortunate circumstances fall into the story and that the majority, which was most of them, did not win, but only by the complex of circumstances voted against, so someone neither blamed nor owed power. When we come to an extraordinary parliamentary election after this assembly debate, and some have three cross-references to appear with a name and a last name, then we'll see what's worth. We'll only see if they have three clean ones. The question is, how many of them, Milka, are going to have three crosses to go out on their own in that story, because some who wave this assembly... And I wouldn't talk about the crash. Speaking of crashes, someone would sooner have a responsibility for burning down a congregation. I didn't understand that nobody was tearing anything down. Someone's burning something, and you can pick it up between yourself who's to blame. You can't put that in the socialists as something that was part of their story. It was you, my beautiful, who burned, and we didn't crash here. That's for sure. Will it happen here that someone is being replaced, it will show the end of the debate and the vote. Nothing's coming down here, because I didn't understand that we were coming to the Assembly to tear something down, because I didn't understand that we were either in a construction company or that we were builders, or that we were this, or that we were that, or that we were auxiliary personnel on a building where something was collapsing. True, we should've come here to build something. It was a question of whether such circumstances could be done in this House and how the story would even pass. The Socialist People's Party will vote in favour of Ms Natasa Micic's shift, to vote in favour of the Republic government's replacement. Is that going to be enough votes, since it's always been publicised about how we're some kind of scaler, so I'm just going to put the story back a little bit, in this House. Remember what you read in the paper before the budget was adopted: Bannett's Socialists will not be in the O.R. in order to require fewer votes to vote the budget. Then those who had those newspapers that wrote it an hour before the end of the session suddenly decided not to be in the O.R. I'm sorry, please, never before, and especially in future life, I'm not going after some Dean Michael, because my kids wouldn't forgive me. So I came here as a socialist and today I'm a socialist and it's hard for someone in that former party to talk about my mandate, because unlike most others, where I'm from, and we're going to win the next election, it's not at all controversial. That's the way it is. It's not somewhere. Where I come from, the Socialist People's Party will be after the next election of power, and that's not at all controversial. Whoever doesn't believe, I'll see you after the election, just to find out what the difference was. Therefore, some of my colleagues who thought that my mandate was controversial could rather see if theirs was controversial. Mine can't be slow, because where I come from, the Socialists have a firm foothold, maybe a little bit thanks to me, and certainly to my friends and friends who work with me there. (From O.R.: Theme. ) Theme, the theme could also be DSS, a dear colleague, who does not know which side the ball is pushing. The theme could be a lot of other things. So don't explain to me what the subject is, I know what I'm saying, unlike you who don't know what you're talking about, because you've been telling different stories from this pay phone. As I recall, the Socialists didn't vote for some laws, which is why Serbia is moaning now, but you voted with a loud vote, so you left the session, and then you adopted a key amendment that said that the socks you were going to come in would not be blue, rather green; it was a key amendment that also made you pompous as you left the gym back in the gym. Don't just teach me what the subject is. Serbia can hardly be happy if you are in charge of it. Therefore, in this House, everyone has shown their face. And if it were luck, if there were no TV transmissions of cameras showing what it does and who it says, some things would look a little different in Serbia. You couldn't lie so much through these written media and just stick to labels. Here, from a congregation pay phone, each of us can make his views clear and loud. And if Serbia had been able to listen to what some of you are saying at this time from "Sablje" to today, it would have looked differently at today's situation. I wouldn't stick to some. Serbia will come out of the 16th in the number it comes out to vote, it will have anyone to vote for. It is a fortunate circumstance that some will not be able to be voted at all, because there is one man who has been to the elections three times and has not defeated anyone, and yet he was the president of Yugoslavia. That's why you set the assembly on fire, so that no Voja Kostunica was defeated by Slobodan Milosevic. Why did you burn down the congregation? Perhaps that's when you in DOS resolved, along with the DSS, which was then your part and the feather, that Kosovo does not belong to Serbia. Only in that case, if Kosovo does not exist at all, was there a chance that Voja Kostunica had a majority. On any other occasion, Voya Kostunica did not have a majority. In the end, as much as Serbia supports it, it proved later in the elections. He didn't pass, because Serbia is counting on him to have a smarter world to vote for who can lead him. (President: People's Parliament, please understand the breadth of the topic. However, I will ask you to discuss the subject on the agenda, which is a proposal for the resolution of the National Assembly President Natasa Micic. I thank you, Mrs. Comic. Therefore, after this debate, Serbia will certainly know what it is on. After this debate, we'll all have to lay our cards on the table and choose who we really are. When we do so, then they will know that the Socialist People's Party is an opposition and that at some point they will be a positional party here, and also in many areas, today is and will be special. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33445	The word has the People's MP Jon Cismash, followed by the folk MP Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33446	Mrs. Comic, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, DHSS - Independent Serbia, DOS will vote against a proposal to dismiss the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Natasa Micic. I believe that the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of Ms. Natasa Micic contains four imaginary chapters: the first - compromise of Ms. Natasa Micic as president of the Assembly and V.d. President of the Republic of Serbia; second -- a direct attack on the DOS, on the reform of the Serbian state; third -- unargumented charges against the government of the Republic of Serbia and fourth -- violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. These findings are irrelevant. It is important that Serbian citizens know what justice is. Obviously, you forget there's only one truth. You, gentlemen, have turned this high-rise pay phone into a Hyde Park stands, taking every opportunity to express your retrograde views, neglecting the purposely agenda of the assembly session. With the strategy of obstruction and incidents, you tried to slow down the process of passing significant laws important for Serbia's citizens' reform and prosperity. DHSS - Independent Serbia, DOS is not defending Natasa Micic as a person who has fulfilled her obligations to voters, but is trying to defend the promised DOS policy. I repeat, the attack on Ms. Natasa Micic and is not an attack on the speaker of the assembly, but is an obvious proposal to attack and devalue DOS reform policy. Gentlemen, if you would respect the laws and the Constitution, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, your proposal would not even come to this House's agenda. History will record that Natasa Micic was the first woman to be president of parliament, who was responsible for introducing the right democratic atmosphere in the Serbian assembly and also introduced the principles of parliamentaryism. Some believe that there are not great people but only great events. I wouldn't agree with that. The giants created history. Serbia had a major reformer, Zoran Djindjic. The prime minister's style of government was subordinated to the essence, modernisation and democratisation of European Serbia. Zoran was big, but he was in your way, too. Athenian Solon said - you must discover the invisible through the visible. Therefore, rare peoples who had exceptional women in positions of defence and dignity are as fighters for eternal human rights; for example, Jovanka Orleanka, Indira Gandhi, Margaret Thatcher. Serbia's golden lady, Natasha, did not deserve such unargued criticism and insinuation. Why? Because you're wrong, gentlemen. Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia reads - The National Assembly regulates its work and organisation and how the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised. Yes, it is. The president of the National Assembly is obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and Natasha has done it brilliantly. You think you have only rights, and you rarely meet your obligations. You claim to be fighting for Serbia's interests, and in fact you are holding back the development of reforms and democracy. DHSS - Independent Serbia, DOS reminds you that the Administrative Board has never established a violation of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure by the president. This means that the proponent is false and is trying to challenge the reputation of Natasha and parliament. So you have to wonder if you are ready to accept the principles of parliamentaryism and democracy. DHSS - Independent Serbia, DOS will support the speaker of the assembly and will defend the principled policy of DOS reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33447	The word has a national MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, who proposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33448	Dear fellow Members of the People, I apologize to all of you and the public who followed the session of the Assembly on Thursday, when we interrupted work, for the half hour I took away from you by reading your stenographic notes. Believe me, it was hard for me to read them, too, but it was with the intention of showing and proving that it was even harder to endure these three years. If it was difficult to listen, believe me, it was even harder for us to bear it for these three years, but as you can see, we have endured and the time has come to overhear ourselves now and to remind Mrs. President of the National Assembly what she did and shouldn't have done, and what the parliamentary majority of the DOS has done and helped the president of the Assembly in its passion to degrade this parliament and to come into a situation where it uses its function as president of the Assembly to cause serious consequences both by policy and by democratic processes and by Serbia at all. It is true that Ms. Natasa Micic is the first woman to be president of parliament -- that no one is slowing down, we hope there will be more -- but also a woman who has proved that she is not up to this post. One obvious example we had for these three years is that the president of the National Assembly does not know how many MPs there are in parliament, it happened at one point when Mr Nikolic advertised that after the vote on one amendment there were no 126 MPs in the assembly room. That was answered by the president of Mrs. Micic's assembly, "Mr. Nikolic, it is true that the Constitution provides for the National Assembly to have 250 MPs. Article 82. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly say that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly if more than half of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I would like to inform you that the total number of MPs in the National Assembly is 248, since two mandates have been taken away, so the quorum for the work of 125 Members of the Parliament, and therefore I have been waiting for a report from the Administrative Committee, which I have not received, but this notice will be given to you. "You may think that all the other MPs responded to such ignorance by the president of the National Assembly who would have to know that at all times the Assembly has 250 MPs and that it was necessary to sit in the hall of 126 MPs to decide. [[elevator in the O.R.]] It is an argument to our claim that Natasa Micic is not up to the function assigned to her, which she accepted. She could've estimated she wasn't up to that function and thanked her, to say, I estimate I can't do that, for the first time in the National Assembly, I need a little experience, maybe some other time. But she gladly took that post and we made this assembly a market, and we made such a situation that the MPs were very reluctant to come to parliament and go out for this pay phone every moment expecting someone from behind to draw attention that it wasn't on the subject, that for three seconds it was time for exposure. Of course, there are various penalties after that. All of us were meant to be in the Assembly and to all participate in voting on certain topics. In addition, I would like to point out another example, given that this has been a lot of interest to the public, and this is the Broadcasting Council and the vote in the election of members of the Broadcasting Council. I have three voting documents here, for example for Mr Radenovic, where the document says that MPs who did not vote and who, of course, gave the quorum, Dr Branislav Blažic, Branislav Vakic, Velimir Zivojinovic. I really don't know about him, because I couldn't check it out, but I'll read only Serbian Radical Party MPs: Slobodan Janjic, Milorad Mircic, Vitomir Plužarevic. None of those MPs were in the O.R. Voting in the election of Mr Cvetkovic, also the Radiodifuse Council, reportedly lawmakers who did not vote: Veroljub Arsic, Branislav Vakic, Slobodan Janjic, Milorad Mircic, Vitomir Plužarevic. Another vote, for Mr Cekic, were also MPs who did not vote: Veroljub Arsic, Branislav Vakic, Branislav Blažic, Slobodan Janjic, Milorad Mircic, Vitomir Plužarevic. None of these MPs were in the O.R., nor were their cards in the O.R. So, some abuse is. We do not know who committed the abuse, but who should take care of the fact that abuse does not occur, we certainly know that and that is the president of the National Assembly. Something else that, after we established the agenda, interested the public, was the fate of the minutes that were not adopted and the reasons why they were not adopted, as well as the consequences of the failure to adopt the minutes. I made an effort to get a stenogram from the July 22nd session, a disputed session over two MPs who were not in the O.R., whose cards were obviously misused. This had a certain epilogue before the state authorities, i.e. the public prosecutor made a decision that there was no reasonable doubt that Mrs Neda Arneric was in some way complicit in the execution of the act, because she was passively following the release of the fact that she was present at the session when voting on the governor and the National Bank Council. This, of course, releases the responsibilities of Ned Arneric, whom we radicals really thought was innocently accused and that probably the woman herself was surprised that her card was being misused, but that only confirms the fact that the work exists, that someone has misused the card and we truly accept with surprise the fact that the public prosecutor is not further investigating the person who abused that card. So what you could read about the case of Neda Arneric these days is true that it releases Mrs Arneric's responsibility, but proves that the crime exists. I'm just going to point out to you and the public for a few examples. I've reduced my 200 pages to about 30, and I'm not going to bring it all up to you in one drink, but occasionally to answer the word, not to bother you too much, to make it clear to you that the president of the National Assembly was biased, unbiased and unfair. At one of the June 26th, 2001, Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic addressed the MPs as saying, "Ladies and gentlemen, every day meeting with the citizens of Serbia for a reason, they are angry with our MPs. Citizens approve that anyone who comes out for this pay phone comes out with the goal of bringing up the citizens' problem. It is said that the Assembly, as a legislative body, has the task of controlling the executive and judicial authority, independent of the person they represent, but citizens are angry at us sitting in benches and in our behavior, as if we are children in kindergarten, we do not understand the seriousness of the situation in which the country is located, we contribute to the unserious work of this Parliament. Also, the chairman must have hearing, strength, the will to be fair where he is. "Mrs. Micic answers: "The chairman has the strength and will to give you a reminder under Article 101. I'm giving you a warning about time travel... Sir, you're talking about the seriousness of state affairs, and you've exceeded the time of three minutes to the extent of the right of replication or violation of the Rules of Procedure. "Is this where Mr. Zivanovic did anything provided for in this article 101, except that he overstepped his time in exposure, to which he was not even warned, in order to give him a warning measure? Obviously not, but then Mrs. Micic still said, and now, as you saw, in response to my exposés on behalf of a group of MPs, 54 of them, "I'm sorry I wasn't even stricter," as if the officer or the gendarme in the Assembly. I hope that neither of you who voted for the president of the National Assembly wanted the president of the Assembly to be a jackal and therefore, regardless of which political party you belong, in order to preserve the true dignity of this House, you should think carefully about whether we need such a president of the Assembly and whether, if he remains this kind of president of the Assembly, we will be able to expect that we have some different parliament in which we will be able to cross our positions without worry about who is sitting behind us and with what stick or rope. I think the citizens of Serbia and how they condemn all of us because of the atmosphere that is in parliament. They simply lost the will to listen to politicians and watch because they had the opportunity to see how we allow ourselves here in Parliament for a long time at the beginning of work and to determine the quorum and to forge votes and to throw such a throw as it is now. Milka Marinkovic throws it out of place. We also have a distraction of speakers, a sentence of nothing, and in this way we created a picture of ourselves that could lead to someone telling us one day on the side -- gentlemen, you're obviously not capable of politics, you're not capable of building institutions, we'll come here with our tanks, so you'll live well under the patronage. If we need cartridges from abroad, if we are not really able to preserve this institution, if we are not able to keep under control, and in our jurisdiction is a Constitutional Court which is very important, as well as other institutions, you can see Mrs. Brkic as the President of the Supreme Court going public and commenting on all the rulings of the lower courts. It is outrageous, to comment on something that is not at all competent to her, but every day you can hear that Mrs Sonja Brkic said that too. There's no one else but us here to deal with it and judge it. If we wait only as members of the political parties at our press conferences, then it is one of the places, but it is not the right place, because we can condemn, attack, and here, dear gentlemen, we still make decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33449	The word is a folk letter from Bojana Alexic, followed by MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33450	I do not want to speak personally about Parliament Speaker Natasa Micic, I want to speak in principle about the institution of the National Assembly, the institution of the Government, the institution of the President of the Republic and one policy that has led us all the way here today. We have come to what the Serbian Parliament today, what its reputation in the country, in the people, what its reputation in the world is, etc. What were the pre-election promises of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia in the summer of 2000. We've heard a lot about it, we've heard a lot from the president himself. The promises we made together from the Democratic Party of Serbia for the rest of the DOS in the summer of 2000. The only difference between us is that we were really determined to stick to those promises, which we did everything to keep those promises, but I have to say in advance that we didn't have too many chances, because our participation in both the then government and the Assembly was insufficient. That's why at one point we decided to back off, and you all know it very well. What is it that we promised, first of all, to the citizens of Serbia and what is still the subject of this debate today? The most important issue of all issues and the most important promise of all promises was certainly the adoption of a new democratic constitution. We talked today, both today and Thursday, of course, about numerous violations of the Constitution by the President of Parliament, Mrs Micic, and she answered that it was the Constitution of Milosevic's time, a unilaterally imposed constitution; I fully agree with it, but the constitution must be respected until a new one is brought forward. The basic question is, why has no new constitution been adopted, why has the President of Parliament, Mrs Micic, not put on the agenda a proposal for a constitution proposed by the DSS when the rest of the DOS was unable to make its own draft constitution, why has the Constitutional Commission not done its job been formed instead and which has thus violated the Constitution of the state union under which the new constitution of Serbia was to be brought by 13 August? Is the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro also of Milosevic's time, whether it is single-party, whether the Constitutional Commission, which this parliament has formed, thanks to the majority, or the DOS, had a real desire to bring a democratic constitution or that, instead of a one-party, perhaps a communist constitution, a second, same, in an even more undemocratic way. Why do I say even more undemocratic? Because that one-party congregation, which has brought the Constitution, had some kind of legitimacy by the people. This congregation in this system is hardly able to boast of such legitimacy. Who do we even have as MPs in this assembly, who does this to the ruling majority or to date the ruling majority in this assembly, are those people who, by their name, have gained popular trust or have come to power because of someone else's name, primarily under the name of DSS President Dr Vojislav Kostunica and at that time a candidate for the president of Yugoslavia? What is truly the legitimacy of those who still rule, and they came to power under someone else's name, now muddying him, and they gave up very quickly. We have still had the opportunity here today to hear, both from some MPs of the Democratic Party and from MPs of the People's Socialists, that more is being spoken and more tried today in this debate on MPs, I suppose, about the confidence of DSS MPs, than about the policy led by the ruling majority. What are all the wrongs, so to speak, the ruling majority and what, according to us at the DSS, is the biggest problem? In addition to numerous affairs, many failed promises to this people, the greatest sin is certainly that all state institutions are fully devised, especially the institution of the Assembly, which is the most important institution of every democratic state, of the European state, but also of any other. There is the institution of the Government, the institution of the President of the Republic. I'm not going to say that Mrs. Micic has usurped the authority and place of President of the Republic. I am convinced, and I believe that the citizens of Serbia are convinced, too, that she did not. It was done to the government's college and the Doss presidency, she was just an enforcer, but that doesn't diminish her responsibility. The National Assembly's institution as the highest state institution today is referred to both in the public and among journalists as a circus, as a place for ridicule, as a humorous show on television, as markets where parliamentary mandates are sold. That's terrible. It is terrible for those of us sitting here, and for the citizens of Serbia, and for all those who still care about what kind of reputation our country will have abroad and in Europe, which, at least declaredly, we all strive together. The question arises as to why foreign capital did not enter this country, and very often we hear it in this assembly from the representatives of DOS MPs - Serbia's Reform that the DSS is guilty because this foreign capital did not enter, that we were brakes of reform, that we did not always vote in favour of the reform laws proposed by the Serbian government and the President of parliament here. In order for foreign capital to enter one country, it is necessary, first of all, that the country has some self-respect, first of all, towards its own institutions, to respect its own constitution, its laws, the electoral will of its citizens, to take care of its reputation, not to jump into its own mouth, not to change decisions towards day-political events and day-political needs, not to trade with MPs, given courts do not make decisions by which the Law on the selection of MPs in one year will be interpreted in one way, and in the year of the second year in another way. Two years ago, when the federal constitutional court attempted to withdraw the mandate of the DSS MPs, the Law on the Selection of MPs interpreted one way, and one year later the Republic Constitutional Court in another way. However, we respected both decisions, although we were convinced from the beginning that the owners of the mandate could only be parties, because they were only parties and who had participated in the elections under the current electoral law. And this second principle could be acceptable and in some ways it is acceptable, first of all, on the basis of a provision that every citizen of this country has the right to choose and to be chosen, to have passive voting rights. It's acceptable for us. That is why we also asked at this session that Mrs Micic and this parliament honour the decision of the Republic Constitutional Court, only to honor it, to carry it out in action and to restore their mandates to those MPs they were taken away from. We have a situation where mandates are taken and returned just as is the case with the DOS Reform Group, not as required by the Constitutional Court and as interpreted by the laws of this country. Finally, to finish, Mrs. Micic invited us all here to vote on her trust and trust in the government, per our conscience. I must say that I, like the other DSS MPs, will certainly vote on my conscience, because my conscience requires me to vote in favour of the rule of law, for strong democratic state institutions, for a strong assembly, for a democratically elected one, which will really reflect the true election will of the people, in which the people will have confidence, who will choose a government that will answer for their work to that assembly, instead of a government that elects MPs and instead of a assembly that is responsible for their work to the government. I must also say that I will vote on my conscience for a free citizen of Serbia, who is not afraid of anything. We thought that fear disappeared forever as a feeling in our people when the regime of Slobodan Milosevic fell. Unfortunately, that fear has returned. In this nation, there is still fear of losing jobs, fear of the future, of misery, of hunger. It didn't go away. I will vote for freedom and for the rule of law, for a free citizen and for democracy. We can only come to this in new parliamentary elections, where we will try to restore to this people the hope that the rest of the DOS took away from him two years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33451	The People's MP Petar Petrovic has the word, followed by MP Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33452	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say at the beginning that the Soviet Parliament Group will support the motion to replace the president of the National Assembly, Ms Micicic, as well as the acting president of the Republic of Serbia. Why do we do this, I'll try to explain in the next few minutes. However, before that, I would like to address Ms. Micic with one well-intentioned sentence -- don't trust any MPs who support you, and it is known that they have changed so many parties in their parliamentary mandate, that they have always supported those in power. Believe more in those who criticize you than those who praise you, who have, meanwhile, since the day they entered this parliament, have fled to another ruling party, hoping, poorly, that you, in the next elections, will trust them with the mandate. You won't, because no one loves traitors. A question has been raised in Serbia for days -- Serbia or the president of the Assembly and V.D. President of the Republic, or vice versa - President of the Assembly and V.D. President of the Republic or Serbia. I don't think that's necessary, because in every developed democratic country, and we all try to be, at least as much, a developed democratic country, set up and replace the presidents of the assembly, the governments fall, the presidents of the republic, or the state, and before the term of office expires. It's nothing painful. It won't be painful if it happens in this case, and it will happen, according to the SS. Life in Serbia will continue as it was. Mrs. Micic's shift is required, not only because of subjective responsibility but also because of principles. objective responsibilities. As the first man of the Serbian parliament, on the principle of objective responsibility, he must be responsible for what was happening in this parliament, although he may not personally be guilty. For many things it is, for many it may not be, but such a principle is, however, often respected in these highly developed democratic countries. We too must learn that there is an objective responsibility for what has been happening and what is happening in the Serbian Parliament. What is it that the Soviet Union bothered and bothered the conduct of the president of the Serbian Parliament? The first thing that bothers us is how to schedule sessions and include them in the agenda of certain agendas. Although the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly are precisely foreseen when and during what time period certain initiatives must be put on the agenda of the Republic of Parliament, there have been cases, at least when it comes to the Soviet Union, that no initiative has come at all to include in the agenda of something proposed by the Soviet Union. I only mention one thing: in 2001, we proposed and asked for Mr. Vesenov's ex-minister's discharge to be put on the agenda. This was never put on the agenda, never saw the light of the day, and a tragic case had to happen, that a young woman would lose her life, so that this gentleman, in his opinion, under the pressure of the general public, resigned, and the SSJ's initiative did not come to the agenda, that he would be in a different parliamentary debate, with evidence presented, relieved of the post of Minister of Agriculture. When it comes to the agenda, it is very often that the calls for sittings are given three or four days before the session, with various reasons, although it is stated exactly when and in which cases the session can be scheduled within a short period of seven days, before the date of delivery of the material to all MPs in this Parliament. Also, when it comes to the public of work, gentlemen of the DOS, whose release is from the president of the Serbian Parliament, you swore in earlier years, when you were opposition, I watched very carefully your performances, or the performances of your MPs in this parliament; I must admit that I was delighted to put myself on your side when you were fighting Milosevic's regime and looking for the public in the work, the session of the Serbian Parliament conveys. You didn't last two years of power, a year and a half, and the first thing you did was end what you said. Is it democracy and is it the public at work? I live in Pomoravska County, which numbers about 200,000 voters; I tell you that 90% of people in the Pomorava County want to be transferred to the session of the Serbian Parliament, they want to see how those for whom they gave their vote, who have given confidence to be their representatives in this parliament, represent them. Therefore, the basic thing is that you, as president of the Assembly, had to, no matter how much you voted for it, really advocated that the cameras should be kept on and on in this parliament, so that all Serbian citizens would see what was happening in this Parliament, to see how it was voted, what was voted for, whether anyone who and how was working in this Parliament, who was reading the newspaper during the debate, who was sleeping during the debate, who was dressed in this Parliament, etc., etc. All of these Serbian citizens have the right, because they separate funds to support RTS. Now you want to propose a new law, which fortunately did not enter the agenda, to introduce a special tax to support RTS. We don't mind, but if all of us taxpayers in paying for financial transactions are to set up a part to support RTS, we have the right to seek public service and to have cameras present here. Mrs. Micic, I don't think you should have forced the cameras out of this assembly and that the general public of Serbia does not see what is happening in the Serbian parliament. When it comes to respect for the Rules of Procedure, and in particular to impose fines on MPs who do not comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I have repeatedly voted and voted against these penalties as a member of the Administrative Board. The MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot identify himself with an employee in a business organisation or public enterprise, so that because he is late for work or I don't know what he does will be fined. There are penalties that are appropriate for inappropriate and rude conduct of MPs. You shouldn't have done it like that. After all, you are only the first among the equals and must have the same archaic towards all MPs. Let's take statistics on how many fines have been imposed for the last two years and on whom they have been given. Is it possible that only MPs from the opposition, when they are not held to the agenda or something else, will be fined in cash, and that the MPs of the minority in this parliament now, the MPs of the DOS, will never be punished or punished in some other way - only by warning, etc. This is what the Soviet Union resents, because you had to get the strength to rise above the fact that it voted for the DOS and to be the president of the Serbian Parliament to all MPs no matter what political option they belong to. The next thing you know from the Soviet Parliament club, we're putting a burden on you is something you've had to do and you've got to keep an eye on in the future, if you don't get a vote of mistrust, and I'm deeply convinced that after the vote in the National Assembly, you won't be at the head of this parliament--so you didn't make sure that the vote is legal. Do we have to look for voting documents to make sure there are MPs who were not in this House, whose vote was added to make a decision that could be adopted? I think from this place where you sat exactly you could see that, among other things, Mrs Neda Arneric had not sat in the chair that she has been sitting on since she entered this parliament that day. It's so clear, that you had to know or in some other way to find out that she wasn't there and that she simply didn't vote, that you simply admit it, so it's honorable to admit and say that you were wrong, let's try again to declare that decision, etc. You spoke here in your first address how many laws Parliament made, how many decisions, etc. So you pointed out, if I remember correctly, that Parliament has worked a lot for these three years, more than the previous parliament in 10 years. I will publicly say that this Serbia where parliament works so much, where the economy stands, where there are so many unemployed people, hungry people, and they want to work. You can laugh all you want, but that's true. Take a walk and get out of your chair, visit Serbia's villages, visit smaller towns of Serbia, see, ladies and gentlemen, how sadly, miserablely and miserablely live in Serbia, whether it's farmers, workers who have lost their jobs, farmers who don't receive pensions for 20 months, regular pensioners who don't have pensions, or who don't have the pension to buy medicines, etc. Therefore, it would have been better if parliament had been less ambushed, and if economic growth had been growing from year to year, perhaps then the Soviet Union would have thought of supporting you. He can't give you anything like this. I heard here from a high-ranking Serbian government official about honesty, honesty, work, etc. I can't leave this booth without saying, "If someone's honest and honest, is it necessary when he goes on vacation with his wife and family to run bodyguards?" I go on vacation with my family alone, from Jagodina every day I come alone. So much for being honest. There's something else I need to point out. On Tuesday last, the 14th of this month, on the Most Holy Mother, a great Orthodox Christian holiday, when we were to hold here a regular meeting of the Assembly, which you have scheduled, believe me, I felt very miserable and miserable as a man, not an MP. Why? Waiting for nine hours if anyone will have mercy to tell me, me and my colleagues from this House. Whether the Serbian Parliament will begin or not. Are we people? I was comparing something; there was talk in public; I can't say it, because I'm going to insult everyone here present, probably myself, if I said it. But when something is done in the country, there's always a time when it's done. In time of that and that, that and that. We had to know whether or not we'd be ambushed that day; if we wanted to, when, etc. Your first-floor fights are absolutely of no interest to us. Sit down, settle down, settle down, but there's nothing more to discuss. Says here one MP that everyone here has come to terms, both nationalists and socialists and everyone. Well, where are you going to make up the reconciliation that you made in 2000, who got into that bag -- both reformists and nationalists and mundialists, etc. And you fought after a month, but in so much desire to keep power, you forget everything. The end has come, or time has passed, the end comes and history begins to write about you. You are the past of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33453	The word has a folk MP Dragisa Marinkovic, followed by a national MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33454	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't understand Mr. from the Soviet Union, why now that the story of Natasa Micic, about her work, they spend more time talking about the Serbian government, problems in Serbia, etc. Gentlemen, you asked for ten hours of discussion, we voted. If you ask for the government for 20 hours, we'll vote to discuss it here for 20 hours, but please, you obviously have nothing to talk about Natasha Micic. The main thing that extends these two days of your discussion is that Natasa Micic has not scheduled a session in this last session and has not arrived. That means there's nothing to talk about. You scheduled the session before that with a agenda like this. You are making remarks on the last day, the last day of the session of this assembly. You will agree with me that there are two sides in this House. The one who's always anti-reversible, who sits on the sidelines and always votes against. I say the opposite, because it's the kind of people, because they sit around and circus brandy or whiskey, lets go of the fangs and talk all the time -- that's bad, that's bad. There's nothing that's positive in this country. Is that possible? I suppose there is another side in this Serbia and this parliament: it is modern Serbia, beautiful Serbia, with a smile on the street. It is true that she is poor. We cannot become rich overnight, when we are so exhausted in poverty, which the opposition today has brought us. We have a chance, we have a smile on our faces. Such a Serbia, yes, is represented by this lady here, Natasa Micic. One beautiful, smart, family-like, I say deliberately not too smart, not too intelligent, because usually too much intelligence is bordered by madness, but smart enough that two years can lead this Parliament perfectly. I do not understand what those to whom she has done most in this assembly, such as the gentlemen sitting here today, raise the question of trust Natasha Micic, when she did the most for them. I just want to remind you what this Parliament was like at the very beginning. You remember that circus that is gentlemen today, it could be said on one very nice level, because they're raised by this lady sitting here, just like that, she raised you, and apparently not by some other method, but by the way old people are raised, as soon as you're sneered, in your pocket. She was right, totally. Today, gentlemen, you look like the right parliamentarians, culturally, for this pay phone you go out with no pride, as you went out at the very beginning. You should be most grateful to her for bringing you to this stage of your life today. I'll tell you the truth: as an MP I had the most beautiful moments on the plane, I went to Paris, a Croatian and a Slovenian came to me, they held in my hand, I think, "The New York Times", and on the main side of our Natasa Micic in that beautiful picture of getting out of the car. My lords, that image may have been unpleasant to her, and to me, it was a pleasure when they asked me, is it, sir, is this really the lady who runs your parliament? I said, yes. It's an honor -- it says -- you like Serbia have a future. Such a person, with a smile on his face, should lead this parliament. For the first time in this House, one woman leads. I remind you only of the previous assembly, when you went out so arrogantly and asked for a variety of explanations. Do you remember how she took you off, easily, like a broom? Why? Because she's smart, capable and because what she does knows how to do. Natasa Micic, I will now tell you something on behalf of my children, on behalf of my wife, on behalf of my friends, in our personal name, we love you for who you are, because you represent a modern, prosperous Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33455	The word has a folk MP Vjerica Radeta, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, a replica to the presentation of MP Dragisa Marinkovic, based on the mention of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33456	Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary group of the SRS and in this assembly and in previous synergy was and will be cultured and brought up. What some call (here, but another colleague) uncultural is the consequence of you trying to eliminate us from the work of this congregation. You know well, when there were many more of you than you are now in this assembly, when you're a professor. Vojislav Seselj, and the other SRS MPs, spoke about what DOS is going to do to Serbia, what the consequences of your rule and your authority will be, you couldn't fight us differently, you couldn't listen to the truth about yourself. Some of you were probably even convinced that it wasn't true. Today there are far fewer of those among you. You resorted, that is, to the President of the Assembly and the previous and this, to the only way you could fight us, to eliminate the gentlemen of the Assembly by bringing us out of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, today, according to you, culturally, I must tell you that we have not changed, we do not ask such compliments from you. We were also left with sharp, just people who are aware of what they are here for, who are aware that the citizens have chosen us to speak on their behalf in this National Assembly, or we know your intention to exclude us from this debate. You won't be able to. So don't try any more and cause any more replicas on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33457	The word is a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, followed by a folk envoy, Shandor Melank.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I think of Mrs Natasa Micic, I have demonstrated several times and the whole of Serbia is familiar with this. It would not be tragic for you, Mrs Micic, if my opinion were lonely, but over 80% of Serbian citizens, and I am absolutely sure of that, who are following political developments and are politically active in any way, whether they participate in the work of parties or go to elections, and on the side are aware of the opposition that today wants to bring down your DOS regime, absolutely the same as I do. I am witnessing this at major national meetings held under the presidential campaign of Serbia's future president, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. One of those rallys is in kickinda today at 15.00 hours. Just yesterday, on a full and wide charter in southern Serbia, in the Jablanic district, in Leskovac, over 10,000 people have spoken to every mention of your name something that does not require me, and the situation in which I am in the Assembly, to convince you and to tell you. That these people were right, and that the SRS was right, and Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, when she explained the initiative for your shift a few days ago, they spoke not only of the stenographic notes that she had read in just one part, along with a number of other arguments, but of a systematic, chaotic state in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia which you created, and you were in the position of the President of the Assembly because of the matchmaking policy of you from the rest of DOS, the original DOS, whatever you call yourself, the DSS, in the situation where you arrived in the brig and trade, from the post of vice president, whose mentor was Mr Marcian, who had similar but much lighter arches, when he chaired as president of the President of the Assembly. Remember, on that day, you immediately showed what your character is, what your nature is and what a person you are. At the moment when you from the original DOS fought with each other in such a way and a group of at least 30 MPs, and at that moment there was much more, which proposed you as president, came to the point of choosing you as president. Although you knew, Mrs Micic, that you had a supremacy majority, more than 126 MPs, you stood up, not blinking, and voted in front of the whole public for yourself. How much you appreciate yourself, and how much you don't want to be the first among the equals later you've shown your many actions. The Rules of Procedure that was proposed to you by the then active coalition partner, Mr. Dejan Mihajlov, is something that you must adhere to from cover to back. From the first member to regulate the rights of MPs' obligations in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the last, you systematically violated one member of the Rules of Procedure with your conduct. The public of Serbia comes into the situation that they must follow, on one of the televisions with a national frequency, the president of your party on the organisation, because you as a party never went to the polls on your own; yes, one time, said counterpart Ljubojevic, and received 0.5% of the votes. Now you've got an MP's group. He says your greatest achievement in the National Assembly is that you brought in radicals of order. Us Serbian radicals, sincere patriots, patriots, people who know what Serbia is to do and how we and the rest of DOS should clean up, what Mr Nikolic will do first on 16 November, and then we in parliamentary elections. For us, the greatest insult is to have someone say something like that, for the simple reason that you, Mrs Micic, not only by chance, as a pendant of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, came to the post of National Assembly President, but from a high 172th place of 250 names on the DOS list - Vojislav Kostunica, as president of the Republic of Serbia. Your participation in political life and your choice of the Civil Union of Serbia is your personal matter. Not only my prognosis but also all the serious people, political analysts, also know that the kumroving students sitting around you, and in this particularly anti-Serbian party calling themselves the Civil Union of Serbia, you cannot, at least, reduce the censorship to 1%, cross the censorship more and be in the Assembly. You will be able, and I believe that both the Serbian Radical or the Radical will preside over the future National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because such a relationship of strength will be here eventually as a passerby or guest. In such a way as to usurp your place, to violate basic human rights, the rights of people who have come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the people to pass on to them part of their sovereignty, to represent it honestly and honestly, will no longer be able to do so. Since you have stuck to every letter and member of the Rules of Procedure, but incorrectly interpreting it, that in this debate that will continue for a few more days you would not be a scapegoat and that you would save your face and dignity, if you have it, the remaining 29th member of the Rules of Procedure that regulates the end of the term of office of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Your mandate will stop, Mrs. Micic, soon, because we will fight, and above all the future Serbian President Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, for the extraordinary parliamentary elections. You and various other characters gathered from the carriage and rope will never again be representatives of the people in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But use the second attitude of that same member and resign and then go to your native Užice, continue to do what you have already done (or have not done) and be a woman who will in such a way take care of herself and your family. You are concerned with such a political attitude, with the saying of a few days ago here, that you are simply pleased and glad that the gathering centre for Serbian heroes, such as Dr Vojislav Seselj and other Serbian heroes, in the Hague case, we and all of Serbia do not need such a president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The usurping post of acting president of the Republic of Serbia has shown what your reach is and what you can do. Opposing the constitution, in a situation where the assassination of Zoran Djindjic was carried out and when you should have realized that we no longer have a government, because killing the prime minister is ending the government's mandate, you have introduced a state of emergency in the country. Of course, it was all followed by state television, giving a lot of space for all your statements, which are completely contrary to the Constitution and the laws of the country. You did all this, and when one of your colleagues, there are few of them who stayed on that side of your side, because it's obvious that you in the National Assembly were defeated, you just said that he was predicting a beautiful future for you, he, his family... Is it a good future that you will have to comply with the criminal provisions, when the courts work by conscience and when the judges are responsible for doing their job, to go to a long-standing prison sentence, because given such a violation of the Constitution and the law does not do so to you, let him assess it and you assess it. It would be best, Mrs. Micic, to resign, that both MPs and the entire Serbian public are at war with your shaming, intolerant behaviour, autocratic thinking and actions, because when you have no other arguments and you haven't learned in two and a half years how to pronounce cards that mark the parliamentary unit, instead of saying they're "identification cards", you keep saying they're "identification cards", then it's a shame and a shame that someone like that stays in the seat of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, vice president of our party and deputy head of the parliamentary group, tells me that I was talking about you as a RTS reporter, who sits in the upper part of the hall, covering me. We had a case to see it earlier, when we were the ruling set, when we were sharply opposed. Ms. Micic, in order to at least part of what you have done to defend against the competent state authorities, I urge you to come to the Court of Justice at 9 a.m. on 17 November at 9 a.m. (you have a second hearing with me initiated by the municipal prosecutor's office of the First Municipal Court) and to explain to Mr. Judge and present journalists what your state of mind was like on 22 May 2002 when you sent to St. Dragic and Bozidar Vučurovic, who were not present in the hall, when you threw out the entire Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, because on the 17th morning I will come with a joyful skill that Mr. Tomislav Nikolic is president of the Republic of Serbia, that you are no longer president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As some kind of lawyer, you know that if you don't show up next time, the third time the police have to come after you, which I'm going to ask and insist on until the end of it, so you're escorting the police, to the police force, to the First Municipal Court, so we can discuss all this with the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33459	In order not to be misunderstood, I am obliged to inform the competent institutions in this country, the courts, the prosecution, the police, the prisons, that this is spoken for by the speaker in the freedom of speech, not by the pressure of those institutions or the threats made. Replication of Natasa Jovanovic, president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33460	I'm talking to you on the red-and-black side of Serbia. I know you exist, but you are a minority in Serbia, and there are such in other European countries, but what separates us from them is that in the long past they were either close to the government or in power. We have the opposite case. The policy you represent, and while you were in power, which you were trying to implement here in parliament, has only one name and that's destruction. There's nothing else you can do but do it. These are your ideologists of destruction, which are now scattered from Kazakhstan to The Hague, well showed us, because they left us in ruins, in suffering, in pain, because hundreds of thousands of people lost their homes in Croatia and Bosnia, in Kosovo, because many have lost their lives. It's your policy, your policy of destruction. The only thing you fear is punishment. Well, this is where you've been punished for the destruction you've done in parliament, and your bosses who've saved lives have stolen people's money, the punishment will arrive at some point, gentlemen. And I can only say one more thing about your politics. The image of your policy is our country what it looked like after NATO bombing. Unfortunately, all these ruins, hundreds and hundreds of objects, none of them were built during your reign. These are all objects made either during the king or during Tito. And that says that you only had one policy, a policy of destruction. That's why I'm not afraid of you. I'm ashamed of you and I'm not very interested in your judgment here, because I know what you've been doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33461	National MP Dragan Marsican is seeking a replica of Natasa Jovanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33462	I have been mentioned here several times today, and I have not answered the replica of the semi-histeriastic MPs, who have been famous and recorded in the history of this House as pronouncing the introduction of shampoos into a congregation restaurant. Please, and in the future I will also not report for the replica, all those well-intentioned or unintentioned MPs who compare me with the National Assembly President Natasa Micicic, that they do not do so in the future, because they insult me, and I ask the President of the Assembly, or the chairman, to give them a reminder.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33463	National MP Vjerica Radeta is seeking a replica of the presentation of the National Assembly President Natasa Micic to mention the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Vjerica Radeta, the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33464	Mrs. Micic, I am simply sorry that your nerves have been weakened by applying, or not applying the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Listening to you just now, it's just that I'd like to suggest to my colleagues that we give up our proposal for your resolution, because your advances here speak more of you than what we're trying to prove to you on concrete examples. Therefore, it is certainly in your interest that you no longer answer, because of those who may have thought to vote for you. After this, you will find it hard to find close to the majority, and the citizens of Serbia can truly see through this exhibition what kind of president of the National Assembly you were, how much an insult you just brought to the expense of parliamentary groups, at the expense of Serbian citizens. It's an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33465	The People's Messenger Melank Shandor has the word, and then the People's Messenger Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33466	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must first express my satisfaction that I am not in Kikinda at 15.00 hours today. I'm more comfortable here with you. I would return to the words of a respected colleague and the promises made by DOS, another great-dos, as my election promises; to remind myself that these promises included that Serbia should enter the European Union, that Serbia should be in Europe, and Europe in Serbia, and that is true. What's the prerequisite for that? Some 8,000 laws and legal acts Serbia would have to bring to this parliament. It is an ambitious and large enterprise that involves apart from time and participation and responsibility of all democratic forces, because it is a decision of a democratic society. Except for participation, there must be an effective assembly mechanism, and in order for it to be effective, it must also have an effective rules of procedure. Some may have withdrawn from the DOS because of the rhythm they were afraid of, because they were used to some slower rhythm, because for them the passing and voting of some laws was too early, and others, of course, did not participate because they were neither Democrats nor wanted to see Serbia in Europe, but Serbia to Karlobag, Ogulin, Virovitica. Now these united forces are putting before the Assembly a proposal on the resolution of Ms Natasa Micic. Natasa Micic, as one of the major points in the assembly mechanism, is being accused, among other things, of violating the Rules of Procedure, so let's see little about how she violates the Rules of Procedure. He violates the Rules of Procedure by not tolerates a kind of populism, making theaters for a congregation speaker, because the Assembly is here to pass laws and be effective in its work. In the replica, where MPs showed that they did not respect the Rules of Procedure, because they were used in advertising on the Rules of Procedure, where they presented their political propaganda or something that had nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. Natasa Micic has always given reasons for objecting to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Most of you know that in most cases it has been accepted, and that small number that has been solved by the Administrative Board has largely been rejected as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. As for the famous cards, I think Mrs Natasa Micic has done everything possible to get the proper record of the presence of MPs at the assembly meetings, addressing all institutions, the Supreme Court and the Assembly committees to assist with their work and advice. You'll realize that she's not in charge of playing some bright mind here, mathematically, which in 15 seconds will count the exact number out of the crowd and see who's missing. That, gentlemen of the opposition, was your job and don't ask, at least be so honest with Natasha Micic that she does your part of the job. As far as TV is concerned, it is clear as a day, and it also says in the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which are the obligations of the Assembly in relation to the public of work. Natasa Micic cannot possibly order any television house to broadcast, because it would be an expression of pressure on the media. Each thesis has an antithesis and I hope that my colleagues, who are also heads of the parliamentary group, will explain one thing to their antithesis, the fact that it is true that there is no objective responsibility for Mrs Natasha Micicic. What is your intention, then, of those who have submitted this proposal? It is your intention, of course, to somehow remove that dot from this mechanism so that it can stop, and I'm telling you that it can't stop, nor can it go back. There's a break-in, there's no going back. What we started, that's what we're gonna finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33467	The People's MP Rajko Baralić has the word, followed by the MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33468	Mrs. Komic, Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, it is true that all the destroyed bridges, highways, factories, refineries and many other facilities were built at a time when responsibility for power had the Socialist Party of Serbia. Of course, we did not build the Federal Parliament, according to the design of engineer Ilkić built a king, and you managed to set it on fire and thus to do something that neither the Germans nor the English, nor anyone else who bombed this country more than once, and not these allies who had prepared public opinion for your account, and swept Serbia with a carpet of bombs to make it easier and faster to power. Mrs. Micic, the designer of this hall has not been celebrated, so this is a unique opportunity for me to see yours, and you are my eyes as we speak, because I have always been the speaker of your back; it was not my intention and I am not here to lead any personal controversy with you, I simply think that you are not the membership you have used in the right way, that the political party that you belong to and against which I have nothing to be founded in this way that you have the responsibility to chair the Serbian parliament and that you are acting as head of state, that you belong to a party whose president, unfortunately, does everything to the worst possible stages in Serbia to bring those people who have been involved in war units with their own will, doing something that they thought was normal, useful and patriotic, why not to say, he is trading Hague accusations, does not publicly already make them publicly through the media of other countries or this country. Of course, it's not your personal responsibility, but I'm simply talking about the ambience of the image in which you act and the way the party you, as I said, works, belongs to your beliefs. You did not defeat anyone on October 5th, you did not defeat anyone on October 5th, unfortunately, you only defeated Serbia. Serbia has a chance to fix it and it will. We, of course, communicate from here from this pay phone and elsewhere in Serbia with the citizens of Serbia in this way to address our target groups, and each of us thinks he is doing it in the best possible way. Of course, you too are convinced that everything you do is done in the best possible way. It is only for citizens to bring the court to the elections ahead, however you are today trying with your political equalists to prolongise it; this authority can see the end, some new composition will come, who will participate in it all, we will see, but the anxiety that now exists in the parliament, which exists in Serbia, is part of your efforts to maintain power at any cost in conditions where you do not have sufficient support for the MPs and thus question the fundamental postulates of the functioning of one state and one parliament. What I personally resent to you is that you... I read somewhere that you have a certain musical education, then I found that our music education is the same and that we play the same instrument, you don't need every time you get a raiser in a partition to sound false, you have to be aware when you're talking to Serbian citizens that you're doing it in a way that should have a calm and determined tone, that you don't fall into the trap of what you just did here, and in that way, I have to say with great pleasure, help us make our political struggle easier and more efficient. The Rules of Procedure is a framework that gives you the right, the Constitution and the law, as well, how you will behave here, but you should not do so with passion, you should not give the MPs a measure and that everyone in Serbia sees that you are exulting for it; it is not like the MP and it is not like the President or the President of Parliament. They shouldn't defend you that way because you're the first woman president in Parliament's history; of course it's interesting for a state and for a society, but it shouldn't be a woman of interest. Between men and women in conditions of equal education, equal skills, only then can a woman have the advantage. If it only takes precedence because it's a woman, then it's politics, the key, the legacy of the Socialist Union of the working people, and you, as I understand it, don't support that policy, and you don't support that time either. It should not be expected from MPs that because the lady president of parliament is the edge of their statements and their arguments are different from the situation where a man would be in the position of the speaker of parliament. If we don't go after pots and keep things out of the way, everyone here should do their job. The one who agreed to be Parliament's president must have agreed because he estimated he was capable of doing so, and the majority that enabled him to do so also had confidence that this could work. Therefore, the additional arguments of the Women's Political Network in this respect are not relevant to me, they should not be relevant to anyone in Serbia and what is the essence here is how we do our job and how Serbian citizens are able to measure it. The Serbian parliament is one of those where parliament's president has the authority to impose mandates because of the Rigid Rules of Procedure. It is unheard of, inappropriately, the MP for a spoken word in parliament risks only in front of his constituents, in front of his target group, in front of Serbian citizens, in front of the general public, and no one should thus hinder him in what he wants to say and determine the way he wants to say it. Also, I want to say that since you've been President of Parliament, no matter how many colleagues are trying to give you credit for your effective work, there's just been intolerance, that exactly one rigid relationship that you've shown to non-insectants marked the time of your chairmanship of this House. Neither can we convince you that our arguments are good nor otherwise possible, we are here today discussing whether you have 126 for a decision to chair the parliament in the future or not having 126. Based on these political facts, large and important political decisions should be made. This is not, as some here say, the interpersonal relationship between the MPs of the government and the opposition, between the heads of parliament and the president of parliament, is here today in a political field looking at political opportunities, whether you can or can't do a job that you think you have most. Since this is obviously a fact and it is clear to all today in Serbia, you can also help to resign, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the law, and thus speed up to discuss new parliamentary elections, so when you have a new 126 to be the new president of parliament, legitimately, because now the legitimacy of your presidency has been questioned, as the legitimacy of the Serbian government has been brought into question. In the end, you are responsible for allowing the executive power to be directly instructed and other ways of non-institutional action imposed on all other branches of government, allowing the Serbian parliament not to perform the function that belongs to it under the Constitution. You were the mere executioner of orders coming from the DOS presidency, from the government's colleges, from some other informal centres of power. It is neither good for parliamentism nor for parliament, nor for Serbia. You have a chance to end it today, if you wish, to help bring about new parliamentary elections as quickly as possible. Whatever you think about it today, you'll have time to repent, because in a political sense, I mean, you've made a quick marriage.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33469	For allegation in speeches of various MPs, and pursuant to Article 84(2), please no longer make false claims on the character of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where the obligation to fines is mentioned. It is not true that it does not exist anywhere and it is not true that it does not exist in the European Parliaments. Secondly, when you ask the President of the National Assembly to resign, instead of participating in the debate, which is the will of the opposition put on the agenda, then you should present the correct information. It is not 126 votes needed for the government of the Republic of Serbia, but for the majority of those present. Regardless of the width of the discussion we are using, I ask you to keep in mind the accuracy of the allegations that we are making behind this speaker. The word is from MP Mirko Rosic, president of the GSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33470	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I must remind all of us what we are talking about today. It is not on the agenda of the Rules of Procedure, nor parliamentary elections, nor counting who has 126 and who does not, today is on the agenda of an initiative to resolve the president of the National Assembly. I will, unlike many, primarily speak from opposition parties, agendas. On the agenda, this initiative came through one explanation that you have all received and that can be calculated, approximately, on the three sides of the A4 text format. It is surprising that for these three parties we have a ten-hour debate, and even moreover, I have to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that an authorised representative of the proposings for the three sides has, in practice, an unlimited time of debate, while our time is measured by minutes. That's the only reason why people who are trying to bring out quasi tends and quasi reasons for resolving the President of the Assembly, but this disproportion in time, I'm quite sure, will be absolutely and more than compensated by the power of our arguments, by the clear political views we represent here. Now I'm gonna use my first 10 minutes. I'm going to try to explain, in that time, only two thesis that appear in this argument, above all, to the firm arguments, and point to the fact that they're not even more difficult. In its essence, it's an antithesis or at least a replacement of thesis. In those other 10 minutes, I will try to explain the political motives and calculations that clearly exist, not only among the representatives of the original opposition, among the representatives of those we defeated on October 5th, but also among the representatives of those who were initially with us, and then, burdened with the burden of responsibility, they stumbled on that path, realizing that they did not have enough power to persist in the realisation of the original principles that our coalition advocated. Now I'm going to go back to the explanation that we got and that, as such, really didn't deserve to be on the agenda. But for the sake of Serbian citizens, it's good to hear that, too. In a proposal to resolve the president of the National Assembly, Ms Natasa Micic SRS, the SPS and the SNS cited as one of the basic thesis for resolving the Rules of Procedure. We've heard that from this pay phone countless times, primarily from opposition MPs. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is placed from this speaker as a phrase, in the manner of brainwashing, directly in the subconscious of Serbian citizens. I really wouldn't be surprised to hear or read somewhere about how students at a school accused their teacher when she gave them a bad grade in civic education. It's probably done in accordance with the idea that a thousand times a told lie becomes true. This lie or falsehood is so great that even a ten - hour repetition simply cannot turn it into the truth. Proposers, I must say, de facto admit that the only thing they count on in this debate is the permanent repetition of that phrase, with endlessly, I admit very boring, reading of the stenographic notes, because in its explanation, among other things, it says, "We have cited several reasons that exist and do not ask to prove their existence." Now, gentlemen, that's where you went too far. We are fighting for Serbia in which no indictment can be accepted without evidence, in which no one can be guilty unless proven guilty, and you want to bring us back to Serbia in which, although isolated from the whole world, you have repeatedly repeated and called us foreign mercenaries, traitors, drug addicts. You've repeated it a thousand times believing that this lie can only be turned into the truth. I must warn you, as I did then, and now Serbia will only give you one answer. Serbia, believe me, has finally become immune to brainwashing. We have also heard the reading of the stenographic notes, but what you will find in them, and Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic did not read it, is the fact that countless advertising on the breach of the Rules of Procedure was largely concluded by the fact that the person who advertised it or commented mostly was satisfied with the explanation that he received from the President of the Assembly or from the chairman at that time. Only one smaller number of these remarks and these comments were found on the Administrative Board, which he made the appropriate decisions on. I must remind you that in these stenographic notes, you will find the fact that neither the Administrative Board nor the Serbian Parliament has in any case concluded that any advertising was justified. Premises are very precise, confusion only one. There is no objective responsibility of Ms. Micic for violating the Rules of Procedure. You want me to tell you again because you talk a lot? There is no objective responsibility of Parliament's president for violating the Rules of Procedure. However, in these stenographic notes you will find something else, that advertising for breaking the Rules of Procedure was mostly used to obtain a replica when it was not right to do so. Gentlemen, it is already a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it is you who are responsible, not Mrs. Micic. So, your general accusation that you prefer, you repeat a thousand times, that Mrs. Micic violated the Rules of Procedure, becomes a pure substitute for thesis. In one more thing, you replaced the thesis, when you say that the President of Parliament has given you penalties for your conduct. Well, it can't be a responsible professor who punishes an undisciplined student, it's a student who's undisciplined. In this case, Mrs. Micic was your professor, and you were very undisciplined students. I must finally say that it is an amazing determination by the President of Parliament to, with strict respect and application of the Rules of Procedure, prevent the destruction of this institution by the irresponsible MPs of the opposition and not to be relieved of its duties, but to ask politely for it to continue. I'll be here for now, seeing as my time is running out, only on this scale. I'm going to use, of course, the next ten minutes to show in the same way that all your thesis is actually antithesis, that you have no arguments for any of them, and then I'm going to explain why you're doing it at all. I will expose your political motives, your political calculations and try to take off my masks in this House, pointing to who has joined you in this effort and why he has done so. But I can't even finish this first presentation without reminding myself of a nice joke we've heard about this pay phone, especially from Mrs. Pop-Lazic. At one point, I read the stenographic notes, too. Mrs. Pop-Lazic said that Mrs. Micic, as speaker of parliament, would allow Tomislav Nikolic, as the elected president of the Republic of Serbia, to take an oath before her. There's a little truth here. She joked it would be Mr. Nikolic. But the truth is something else. Mrs Pop-Lazic thus admitted that the arguments for Ms. Micic's shift were absolutely unwarranted and she was subconsciously still seeing it in this place. Unlike her, we see consciously.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33471	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The basis for the replica. National MP Zarko Obradovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Mirko Rosic. The basis for the replication of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33472	Either pick your words or watch your mouth. Mr. Rosic, it's very interesting that your attempt to disprove this argument and argument is given. Not all MPs, however, but it distinguishes the MPs of this assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You were talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. There should not be a real waste of words about how many times Mrs. Micic has hurt her Rules of Procedure. As you receive it within your group, that's your problem. Whether she's your teacher or not, make a deal. You're talking about evidence now. Mrs. Micic is an accomplice to what happened when she voted on several laws, which is stealing from the vote. Ms. Micic was due under the Rules of Procedure to the parliamentary groups that requested this delivery of voting lists. She refused for two months. Only when we filed a criminal report, did she say, even on RTS, on that show she told a lie. (Mirko Rosic, from the site: You were not present. No, you were. Mirko Rosic, from where I am. So Mr. Rafaelovic was supposed to be here on the day he wasn't here saying he wasn't here. Then everything would be fine. The same goes for two of our MPs. Mr. Rosic, you're free. This assembly was caught stealing from the vote. The D.A. took that case. We have a living man here. We have two of our MPs talking about it, and now you're telling me it's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Then you're talking to me about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, when someone's asking for a list, when someone's looking for something that belongs to the conduct of the Rules of Procedure, and then you're saying it's not that. What do you want? We had one interpretation. He says, "When the president of the National Assembly heads the Assembly, he doesn't say it, he says it's his personal attitude." If it's a personal attitude, then why is he sitting there? Then why is the president of the National Assembly sitting there? As a personal attitude, he can say where he wants to go. You have disfigured this assembly, the way the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works. That's sad, but true. Starting with the theft of the mandate, how many times we advertised the Rules of Procedure. But you know what the point is. Injury is the Rules of Procedure that most MPs raise their hands. It's not one thing today, tomorrow it's another. Never mind. It's really funny to say, Mr. Rosic, that it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. About other things when the time came, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure was not that it was, but that there were many. It's just, what you're going to do, it's the majority of the congregation. I have the records from the board's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33473	I ask the MPs of Zarko Obradovic and Mirko Rosic not to talk, for two reasons: firstly, that MP Mirko Rosic must not speak from the bench, and secondly, that MP Zarko Obradovic must not violate the Rules of Procedure and speak longer than the Rules of Procedure of the planned time, and I warn you both. According to Article 84(2) and yet taking into account the content of what is said about the speaker, I ask you to give your impressions that the Rules of Procedure, Law and the Constitution have been violated as impressions. The National Assembly never broke the law in its term, the Constitution and there were no violations of the Rules of Procedure. If we all want this institution together to be a place of respect and self-respect, then we must invest energy and when we think the debate is emotional enough, creative or funny enough that we can forget that when it comes to breaking the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure, it's just the impressions of the MPs and not the facts. The People's MP Slavoljub Matic has the word, and after him, MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33474	Gentlemen, it is difficult to argue with the demagogy of Mr. Rosic, where one simple question, and the question is - how many MPs were elected by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia in the Assembly Hall, you get this kind of demagogy where, immediately from this, there is a natural labelling and where we see that we are still living in the matrix of that policy that has determined the fate of the Serb people in the second half of the JJ century. We are still living in that totalitarian matrix, where, unfortunately, the currents of October 5th and what the people decided in September 2000 are not at all tangling those in executive power. And what happened to parliament here? It happened to fall under the full influence of the executive government, unfortunately the president of parliament becomes part of the executive government. Thus, by accepting the rules that the target justifies the means, parliament becomes one of the most unreputable institutions in our political life. Unfortunately, if this goes from Parliament itself to other institutions, we also experience that the National Bank of Serbia itself, one of the factors of stability, is also one of the institutions that has no more reputation and then all the other institutions. When we see all the consequences of such parliamentary work, the question is, who in this Serbia will provide a better life, who in this Serbia, which is not a legal state, will invest, how will the standard of our citizens improve? How do we make this a Mecca for investors, not one station through which trains will just fly through? Of course that's part of the responsibility of the president of parliament. I'll remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Martian, at a time when he was President of Parliament, had more reputation than his party, according to all the polls that questioned the public opinion. Dragan Marsicanin has been very common because he acted as president of all the MPs, not only his MP groups, but also had some unpleasant and conflict with his fellow MPs in his parliamentary club. He had a higher reputation than the DSS himself, whose member he was...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33475	People's MP, please discuss the subject of the agenda, which is the resolution of the president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly is Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33476	Mrs. Comic, let me tell you one thing, we don't have...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33477	That's not MP Dragan the Martian. National MP Dragan Marsican has asked and the chairman must consider it, that no presentation compares him to the speaker of the assembly, as he will ask me to give warnings and warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33478	And to compare...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33479	Therefore, I ask you to return to the agenda topic and discuss the remarks you have on the work of National Assembly President Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33480	Come here for a pay phone and tell me what you have. Please, I have no one else to compare, but to compare exactly the two presidents of this democratic assembly or the "democratic assembly". Please, if I pull the parallel, don't argue with me. If you have anything to say, sign up like the other MPs, come to the pay phone and apologize to yours and take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33481	People's MP, most of this debate comes down to the fact that the chairman is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I, as chairman, was warned by MP Dragan Marsican that any comparison of myself and the president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly would be considered an insult. So I have to take care of that. Please speak again by expressing your views, impressions and facts about the work of National Assembly President Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33482	Can you at least calm down your MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33483	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive from the bench and to honor the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33484	Several questions, Natasa Micic: were you on the streets of Belgrade on 9 March 1991? Which is why we went out on March 9th, is it because of the TV broadcast? What did the authority of the president of the assembly do to keep TV broadcasts in this assembly? What did you do with the taken-off DSS mandates? Why did you take sides with those who dictated the removal of these mandates, and what did you do with the authority of your office that MPs, after the decision of the Federal Court, return to the assembly benches and participate in the work of the assembly committees? Why is the good part of the DSS MPs not involved in the work of the board, and we often call for the work of these committees and decisions, especially the Administrative Committee? What did you do to make very important laws that are a condition for reforms, for investing in our country, come to the agenda? What about the denationalization law? Who's going to invest in Serbia if he knows he's buying someone else's heritage? Do you know what fate this kind of privatisation will be, that precisely because of this curvature we have here in this assembly building, they are just making decisions to visit our Serbia, precisely because they know that the next day they may have difficult trials in Strasbourg? I want to ask you, since it has been said very often here that this assembly debate does not seem to be passed reform laws, why did we not, Madam President of the National Assembly, sit in September? We were prepared and all the MPs, as I recall, came in late August to make decisions very important for this country, concerning Kosovo and Metohija. What prevented this parliament, given that there are some 40 legislative proposals in your archive, where an emergency procedure has been proposed for their adoption, why we did not work during September, and now you impute to MPs who need to say where they are wrong, what is wrong, to introduce order in our parliament's work? Tell me, how are we going to regain this House's reputation? What's your concept if you stay president? Will you be able to calm down here this flea market where it's traded for mandates in an unspeakable way? Do you have any concepts? I think that our future is in what we promised the people of Serbia, and these are fast-tracking parliamentary elections and the possibility of measuring our people's voter temperature, and this, as we're going, seems to be going nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33485	Replication to the presentation of MP Slavoljub Matic, MP Mirko Rosic, president of the GSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33486	I really don't like to replicate, but I have to do it this time. First of all, I have to thank the previous speaker for admitting one fact, which is that it's hard to argue with what I've said. I don't understand why the fact, and the very argument, calls it political demagogy. The speaker before him tried to pollute with the thesis that I put forward, extremely unsuccessfully, and it seems to me that this last discussion was only held on to the conclusion that it was difficult to settle with these facts. It's not hard, it's impossible. So I will repeat it once again, at least according to this first thesis that I have so far absorbed, and I will continue to do so in the next ten minutes, not now, but later, Mrs Natasa Micic is not objectively responsible for breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33487	Since we still have three minutes until the end of the afternoon session, I'm taking a break by 15.00 hours. The afternoon section will begin with a debate in which the first to be declared by the word will be MP Zoran Nikolic, followed by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Thank you. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs present in the National Assembly building to come down to the session hall, so that we may begin work in the afternoon. Thank you. Dear People's MPs continue the session in the afternoon and please insert your identification cards into your electronic voting units to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum to work on and we continue the debate in principle, and by order of the MPs and the application for a word in search of a motion to resolve the president of the National Assembly. The word has been made by MP Zoran Nikolic, MP Zoran Angelkovic afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33489	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, I think that the way we are holding the debate on the resolution of Parliament's president, along with everything that has been happening in this parliament and around it in recent months, suggests that Serbia is in a kind of crisis with parliament. According to the assessment of the party I belong to, the Socialist People's Party, Serbia is not only in the parliamentary crisis, but also in the deep political, economic and social crisis and the only logical, legal way to get out of this crisis is to re-check people's will and call elections at all levels. Before I say anything about the reasons why we joined the SRS initiative to seek the resolution of Parliament's president, I would express my personal relationship, as a MP in this House, primarily because of my conscience. As many times as I've been able to address the President of Parliament as a National MP, or attend some meetings organised on her part, I've always encountered a correct relationship and that's what I have to say for the sake of the truth. As for the reasons why we believe this parliament should meet the SRS's initiatives and our initiative and that the speaker of parliament is resolved, there are several factors that are important for this Parliament's decision-making. First of all, we think it is for the president to act, and with historical circumstances, it is v.d. The president of the Republic of Serbia, in the conditions in which we live and work, needs a man with more life and political experience than Mrs. Micic owns. Secondly, we believe that the position of parliament has remained subordinated to the executive power, in relation to the government and that this is one of the reasons why parliament has often not been at the height of its task. The third group of reasons, according to me and most importantly, is that we have very poor democratic rules of conduct in this House, namely that we have a desperate Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The better you carry out a bad act, the worse you get. Why is he bad? I will remind you that several amendments to the Rules of Procedure have been made since 2000, and each one, according to us, was worse than the previous one, each one has introduced even more restrictions into democratic parliamentary life. First, the time of discussion of all MPs was shortened, then the possibility was lifted for all MPs to submit amendments to all proposals of the law, then the right to replication was denied, and the crown of all is the punishment of the MPs, although the Constitution protects MPs for what has been said from every form of responsibility, and especially this too long distance from the session, which objectively changes the people's will, because the MPs are also an expression of the sovereignty of Serbian citizens. Moreover, in the very way Parliament works, despite such a restrictive Rules of Procedure, it has been done to make the small rights of MPs even smaller or to be minimized. I will remind all of you that it has almost entered practice for Parliament's sessions to be learned through the media on Friday or Saturday, that the sessions are scheduled for Tuesday, that the deadline for the amendment is 72 hours, that we have often been in a position not to have any physical time to react, nor to prepare ourselves quality for debates and to consider individual draft laws. I'm not talking about guilt right now, breaking down TV transmissions, that power carries on the soul, certainly it's a drop in a glass that has contributed to the little democracy that could come out of this Parliament no longer be seen in public. For this reason, when such restrictions followed, such prohibitions as we had through the abolition of the rights of the Rules of Procedure - and I must say they were actively involved in this, and those MPs or political groups that are now joining this request for the removal of the President, but they have raised two fingers for such a Rules of Procedure, ugly and sad, as we now have - are logical that the reaction of the opposition and opposition MPs is sometimes also an excess of the authority and abuse of certain powers for which rigorous sanctions have been received. All in all, for us, representatives of the Socialist People's Party, it is not disputed that we will vote for the resolution of Parliament's president. I don't think it's the very outcome of the vote, whether or not the president of parliament will stay. The point should be whether all of us together as members of this Parliament, so both the government and the opposition, learned some lesson from this previous period, did we realize that we all have had more or less impact on the confidence of the citizens in the parliament being broken down to quite low branches and that in all of us, not equally, in power, but also on the opposition, the responsibility to try to regain that trust. That's why I think my colleague Pal Shandor, I am free to quote his name, with which I like to exchange my opinion on everything that follows the assembly work, was deeply correct when he said that one of the last decisions of the ruling majority in this House should be to return to force the rules of procedure that came when they came here, which is the one of those rules of procedure from 2000. I think this move, with elections being called at all levels, would be a real indication that Serbia should begin to emerge from the deep crisis it has found itself in.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33490	National MP Zoran Nikolic used the time available to the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group. The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group, followed by MP Zoran Angelkovic, and then by order again, MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, it's embarrassing for me to talk about a lady and yet a lady who isn't here, but I'm still going to say the chosen words that I wanted to say. Mrs Natasa Micic is responsible for many things in this Serbia that have been happening. Ms. Natasa Micic took away the right of the people's MPs, and not only had she taken away their right, she repeatedly insulted the MPs and this highest house in the country. The Serbian Parliament has turned into a service of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Parliament is an institution where laws are passed, and these laws should be implemented by the government of the Republic of Serbia and respected. It wasn't like that until now. The laws were passed here, and when the law was necessary and they were useful, and when the law did not suit them, they applied most of them by putting the vote on a single point proposed in the previous period. The president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, who was not elected president of Serbia and was not appointed, was merely established under the Constitution that she has been the acting president of Serbia since that day, introduced the state of emergency, ladies and gentlemen, in Serbia. 11,500 people were arrested in Serbia. Of which, more than 11,000 innocent people have been in prison, and these days this legal state, the government called the legal government, declares that it will comply with the law in Serbia, has released two murderers who committed a triple murder at the Intercontinental and sentenced to 20 years in prison. It was done by the DOS government headed by President Zoran Zivkovic. Don't throw away those of you who lied about how Neda Arneric was at the session, and waved at those plane tickets. It's like telling a child - I'll give you chocolate, and the chocolate isn't home. You should be ashamed because you lied to all of Serbia, you lied to the whole world with those plane tickets, but since you didn't travel anywhere, you don't know that the plane ticket wrapper stays with the passengers, and the clip was supposed to show, sir, that clip that stayed at the airport. Lies can't accomplish anything. There are short legs in a lie, and whoever lies a lot has short legs, and you know who it is. Every single one of you who throws it, I have a story for him, so you know, and you can't ever distract me, because I've been doing something in my life, unlike you, and you've just been doing politics. So Mrs Natasa Micic broke the Constitution and allowed individuals to arrest 11,500 innocent people and even said that certain parties participated, I will not name which parties they were, they organised this, they organised it. I also call the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia -- a few days ago, "The Sunday Telegraph" came out saying that the prime minister's killer was sitting in the government, and that editor of "The Weekly Telegraph" was not arrested, which means we can doubt whether it's true or not, and we heard what the late prime minister's bodyguard said. It's this law state where laws are passed. The theme is the shift of Natasa Micic, or she has already been replaced, only to put herself to the vote. That's what happened when we were supposed to adopt this agenda. More than once, Natasa Micic has violated the Rules of Procedure in this parliament. Natasa Micic, who is not here now, best to resign and save Serbia, because she has the greatest responsibility for everything that was wrong in this country. Natasa Micic, who led the session when Governor Kori Udovicki was elected, said at the beginning of the session - I am opening that session, and Neda Arneric will not be present at today's session. He says I couldn't see him in 16 seconds. It's a little time to see who's here and who's not there. Two hours that day, you waited for the quorum and you weren't ashamed to lie and she was in charge with you. I was not there to choose someone who would do harm to the Serbian people and I will never vote for DOS proposals and DOS officials, so it is honesty, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the president's work is concerned. Ms. Natasa Micic had an obligation to schedule a session of the Administrative Committee when we asked that three traitors, paid MPs, who were bought, should not be ordered by the chairman of the Administrative Board. She didn't do it. She and DOS awaited the Constitutional Court's decision, and the Constitutional Court's decision was not legal but political; and, at that time, it was appropriate for them to own the mandate as MPs, not political parties and coalitions. It is nowhere in the world - that parties and coalitions go to the elections, and that the owners of the mandate are MPs. That suits you until the moment the MPs from your ranks began to go to other parties and then you lost most, seven days ago, in this House. So much for the integrity of DOS and Natasha Micic. The opposition has been deprived of all rights in this assembly. I am the fifth MP in line in this assembly to receive the most notice and five times I paid a fine of three thousand dinars. That's not the problem. I did not come to this assembly to earn wages, but I came to represent the people of Serbia and the people of Pomorava County, unlike many other MPs who came to this hall to nod and to vote for what someone had ordered them to do. This was not done by MPs of the Serbian Unity Party, nor will they ever work. When we mentioned vital topics, Natasa Micic would say - it's not a topic today, and I say - ma'am, you who cannot go to your town, when you lose power you'll have to go to another city to live. That's what your Požega boys say. Look, don't pull my tongue, I didn't mean to say everything you did. Every time you throw away, I'm gonna say what I'm not...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33492	National MP, the topic of the agenda is to resolve the President of the National Assembly of Natasa Micic and, with full understanding of the width of the argument on the subject and with the fact that you talked about everything else for eight minutes, please focus in the time available to you (ten plus ten minutes) on the subject and leave everything else for other points of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33493	Your watch isn't working, here's three seconds as I speak, and I've got 20 minutes right, and you took away my...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33494	The National MP, the chairman and secretary of the National Assembly, shall take care of the time available to each MP. So, you spoke eight minutes and 46 seconds out of the first 10 minutes, then I was required by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to warn you; when you speak, rightly, of the mistakes of others, you are obliged not to make mistakes yourself without respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33495	You really didn't have to make that kind of introduction, you could do it with one sentence, but I understand. Since you're not taking care of the undisciplined DOS MPs that I'm getting, I said, every time I throw them, I'm going to say something I didn't plan on. And what am I gonna say? Natasa Micic, as president of the Assembly and as V.D. Serbia's president, she (she and another lady) made it possible for only two people in Serbia to get credit. One's a father-in-law and the other's a daddy. The father-in-law of Minister Rasate-Vukosavljevic received a loan for the development of livestock and opened a cafe, not cattle, but children leaving, and this second, Dad Natasa Micic, became the director of the printing industry in Uzic, I think it's called Dimitrije Tucovic, and got a loan to develop production, and bought a car to drive a small dad, because the daughter of Serbia's president, it's a shame that the father of Serbia is driving in a "golf", has to be a new car. If you throw me anything else, I'll say something else that's black. Ladies and gentlemen, I received warnings in this assembly because I mentioned young people when you introduced them (please, this is very important to hear) high tuition, on that day I was saying - don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. It's nice to meet you. I'm gonna be a little gentler now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33496	Will you use the next 10 minutes, MP, if you're using... National MP Dragana Markovicu, do you use another 10 minutes? The first 10 minutes are up, you're in charge of the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's hear from each other. So, apart from the chairmanship, no one else can interrupt the speaker, according to the Rules of Procedure, I ask the MPs not to earn, and the MP who speaks is to pay attention when he is addressed by the chairman. You're using the next 10 minutes? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33497	You want to turn on my microphone? Thank you, it works. That's when I said to the young people, I have to say again, the microphones were off, that they were high school fees, that they didn't have a job, that you said you'd bring back young people from abroad, that young people wouldn't go abroad, that those who graduated from high school and college would have jobs, and none of that. What job did you provide for young people? You've provided them with a job to go to war in Iraq and Afghanistan, that's what the DOS government has given young people to work for some future time. I'm glad he's here. Why did I get more warnings? When I talked about agricultural producers, that the prices of agricultural products were very low, that a loan should be provided for agricultural producers, when I said that meat and milk were no longer imported, there was never cheaper meat on the market, never more milk on the market, and never less cows in the country, that the Government gave subsidies for agricultural production. Why did I get a warning? When I said - no wonder who the Minister of Agriculture is, I said - the Minister of Agriculture is the one who enters the barn, and there are three cows and three bulls in the barn, if you ask him what is a cow and what is a bull until it touches, he wouldn't know what is a cow and what is a bull. That's why I got a warning. I'm a man from Pomoravsky County, it wasn't anything ugly, I don't know why someone was offended and 3,000 dinars, and he puts his hand in my pocket and pulls it out. All right, I respected that, and why I was still getting warnings...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33498	National MP, I ask you all to remember together that, among other things, you and your request are now in the debate on the resolution of the National Assembly President Natasa Micic, and if you decide to continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, you will be the first MP to receive the same notice twice, so that I ask you to return to the subject of the agenda, so that I do not have to apply the Rules of Procedure to convince the reasons for which you have already received the notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33499	Thank you. I'll try not to say anything more about the Minister of Agriculture. Furthermore, why did I still receive warnings from Mrs. Natasha Micic? When I said that the problems in Serbia's cities exist, that there are strikes in every city, that I come from Pomoravia, the highway was blocked by the workers of the flag from Kragujevac, that in the Great Plana is a strike, that in Novi Sad is a strike, in Batočina, Kruševec, Nis, in Vojvodina agricultural producers strike and when I said (and then the late Djindjic was present, sitting here) that the government should come to Ćuprije, Ćupria has no water, says - not the topic Ćupria, go to place, the third warning of 3,000 dinars. I say, okay, if it's not the subject of me talking about the people of Serbia and about the county where I come from, okay; I went to my place and then I lost 3,000 dinars. When was I still getting tickets? When I was talking about pensioners, that the same day that the salaries were raised to the MPs by 15% the pensioners were reduced by 5%, so I said it was a big shame. In addition to having cheap cakes that you asked for on the menu in the restaurant, you asked for free haircuts, and I said then - you who are looking for free haircuts, I don't need them, God did me on time, you who are looking for free haircuts, it's hard for you, because the villagers will come with those scissors that cut sheep. And that's why I got the warning, and I'm not sorry. Why else do we in the Soviet Union feel that Mrs Natasa Micic is guilty and has not functioned as the Rules of Procedure has asked her to? When it comes to working hours, the start of the morning work is at 10.00 hours, we never started work before 12:00. A afternoon of 15.00 hours, and never before, on average 16,00 - 16,15. When we calculate the number of days the Assembly has worked, how much it costs, etc., it is a huge figure for Serbian citizens, for those citizens who barely survive. That's why I got a warning, ladies and gentlemen, from Mrs Natasha Micic. I received a two-session warning when I asked for help back from the Serbs from Cosmet, for persons 16 to 65 years old, who were abolished; when I was against the Serbs from Cosmeta being kicked out of collective centres in Serbia; when we are against Serbs going to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why I got a warning. That same day, we said -- people, let's stop sending Serbs to The Hague, let Tachi, Rugova, Haradinaj and all those who expelled the Serbian people from Kosovo and Metohija go once. He says it's not a subject. It was never a topic, except twice, when it was the Declaration on Kosovo and Metohija in this assembly. And then there was a limited discussion, that you couldn't talk and mention something that didn't suit them. It turned out that if that were the subject at the time, today there would be no list of four generals to go to The Hague, those generals who defended the Serb people. I received one warning from Natasa Micic when I said - Mrs. Natasa Micic, in your opinion, all those who went to war, and no one with the will to go to war, and especially those who were in the reserve group, received a call as a backup, and who did not respond to the call goes to prison, so all those who were in the war by you are criminals, war criminals, and those who fled the country during the war and drank whiskey and coffee in some other countries, these are folk heroes and should be recognized. That's why I got a warning. When we look at what the president of the assembly was doing and V.D. The president of Serbia, that's the reason, I mentioned what's wrong with us, why the Soviet Union is going to vote for the president's shift. However, I say to you that the day for the vote will not be in this assembly, that this debate will take place at 16 points until December, as 126 MPs can no longer gather the ruling majority and that the elections will not be held until March of the month. With great respect, I say Natasa Micic - run for Mayor Užica and then you will best check yourself, run for councilman to see how many votes you will get. All the SS MPs have won as councilmen in the places where they live. When your people recognize you, then you can say that you will be a representative of the entire nation in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33500	The word is from MP Zoran Cirkovic, representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a respected presidency, the New Serbia parliamentary group felt that the debate on the resolution of President Micic could take place in one day. That's how much it took to get rid of Mr. Martian's previous president. Mr. Marscanin did not allow a suspicious parliamentary majority to be serialed over his shift, but had knightly resigned. Instead of following the example of her predecessor, Mrs. Micic stepped in to defend her character and actions. And if that defense hadn't crossed a thin line that shared the truth from a lie, we wouldn't have had to participate in this parliamentary debate. But we're going in a row. Mrs. Micic, you say you are not pleased that the initiative for your shift came from political opponents from 2000. To comfort you, not the opponents of September 2000, but the allies of the day. You're saying that the congregation's majority has promised to change the system. Why didn't she change it? I hope the comparison isn't too strong, but I remind you that the moment the Nazism fell, his symbol fell, too, a cowardly cross. If you promised to fail the system, i.e. Communism, why didn't you suspend his signs? You had a reason for that. I remind you that ten days after the constitution of the Assembly of this Assembly, there was a motion for a decision that seemed to me to enjoy great support at the time, as some MPs of the Democratic Party also signed it. That decision demanded a suspension of the remaining symbols, but what to do when they grew to someone's heart, so they couldn't get rid of it. So, the truth is, Mr. Martian also didn't want to put this decision on the agenda. By resigning, he was relieved of his responsibilities. Mrs. Micic, if you do the same, you will be released from any responsibility why you refused to propose to the Assembly such a decision or, finally, to suggest that it be on the agenda, so let the parliamentary majority decide on it. It's total freedom of political choice. That's what I asked you in a letter written on February 5th last year. By the way, I remind the MPs that in the high school history textbook printed after 5 October 2000, Serbia was freed from communism on that day. In the second edition of the textbook, the same author was no longer sure of the previous claim. For this reason, this finding was lagging behind in the second edition. Is it the policy's fault that was defeated on October 5, 2000? No, of course not. That's the success of this policy, unfortunately. Mrs. Micic honours the parliamentary minority that it will not change Milosevic's constitution. Why would a minority change it, let the constitution change the DOS majority in the Constitutional Commission. That's her job. I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission, and I remind you that the co-operation on my part was simply not lacking in this regard. It is a great shame for the assembly commission and for the assembly in this assembly unless the current Milosevic constitution changes by the end of its term. Mrs. Micic, you're saying that the DSS parliamentary group has not been deprived of its mandates. Yes, only the congregation in that interregnum didn't sit. The DOS has kicked the DSS out of the coalition, and the Administrative Board has determined the end of its mandate to its lawmakers. You cannot avoid responsibility for the poor work of congregation bodies. Finally, you're all hats to them. Here, by the way, I remind you that I'm a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Reading the Rules of Procedure, I read that this committee gives consent to delegations acting as parliamentary delegations representing this assembly abroad. I asked the president of the board, I guess she's here, or she's not, if ever that committee has given its consent. She told me she never did. I asked who was doing it, he said it was the president of the assembly. I told the board -- if that's the case, and it seems so, because you as an official are confirming it, then put her responsibility in breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if he'll listen to me. The key problem in the work of the Assembly that you chaired is the visible impression that parliament represents the mere transmission of the government. After all, if there were any goodwill, the president of the state could have been elected in December of last year. The only condition was the elimination of census in the first round. We didn't quite notice that you stood up for it. Like it's finally not done now. Mrs. Micic, I see you're proud of the work of your party, the Lustration Act. Are you aware that he represents a dead letter on paper? In order for the law to be applied, the necessary precondition is the adoption of a law on the opening of files conducted by the State Security Service on citizens, i.e. secret police. I remind you that together with Mr Jacimovic of the DSS on 5 December 2001 (here will be a sad two-year-old) I have submitted a bill on the rights of Serbian citizens to the full availability and use of my own file in the Office of State Security. In a kind letter to you on February 5, 2002, I politely asked that the bill be put on the agenda. You refused, and you denied me a written explanation for such behavior. Why you're yelling at the anti-lustration majority now? Well, you're objectively her protagonist. Finally, do not call on your vision of Serbia from the time of its democratic coup on October 5th. Your party has entered power, and you have become the acting head of state. You are the realiser of your visions, and the parliamentary appearance of Serbia is your work or mirror. If it worked, you have no reason to be afraid. That means your transfer from Užica to Užička to Dedinjo didn't run out of time. Otherwise, I'm afraid so. With all due respect to your thin lyrical soul, I am obliged to announce New Serbia's position: the New Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of the resolution of the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33502	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. He's not there. National MP Dragan Markovic is not present. The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic, and after that, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33503	Gentlemen and Madam People's MPs, discussing the work of the President of the National Assembly, whether or not, we are also discussing the work of Parliament, because whoever is chairing parliament can contribute to the work of Parliament well, but it can possibly influence Parliament's doing bad. So the topic is basically much wider than the responsibility of a high-ranking state official. In the public of Serbia - I think that, however, we all agree - the opinion has been found that the National Assembly of Serbia is a state body that has lost its reputation in the people, and therefore the people do not trust the laws and acts that this legislative body is bringing. Why is that? We must go back a little bit and briefly recapitulate some of the situations from this Parliament, a team as soon as our separation approaches; the quick elections will be, so we can try to be relatively impartial, objectively, and that means we see justly what we've been doing these three years and what the role of Parliament's president is in our work. This parliament, by the way, is mentioned, because I think it would not be fair to keep quiet, for the first time it came out as a funny organ at the time when part of the speaker for the shift of the Assembly started acting a little bit weirder than usual in parliament. The first ridiculous situations in parliament, we must not forget that, were when some MPs from here had to be taken out and when the cameras were recording those situations. It's already been a signal to people that there are some non-serious people sitting here, who don't follow the normal rules that officials in all other institutions are acting under. This came from a Rules of Procedure which was extorted and which, in some ways, in some of its elements, is restrictive and has caused and is also causing today's disputes. However, the key date in this House was the vote on the Labour Law. Until the law was put on the agenda, we had a parliament in which the government's laws had passed before the MPs a discussion in parliamentary groups, and only when the government - by talking to MPs and accepting their suggestions and demands - would ensure that the law would come on the agenda. We also had a time when the Assembly was allowed a legislative initiative. The laws of opposition groups were also on the agenda. It was important for parliament to show that it had a legislative initiative and that opposition groups' proposals would also enter the agenda, and that it would not stand up as a representative of the DOS and say: I propose that this item be removed from the agenda, but will be discussed. In May 2001, we had two laws of the Socialists, one of the radicals discussed by the Assembly. She didn't adopt them, but she discussed them, as well as all the other laws. However, when the Labour Law came, we faced a new situation. We have faced simply one new concept of parliament, which is about this: the government's law must pass. And to pass the government's law, various kinds of pressures are allowed in parliament; pressures are allowed on parliamentary groups, and if this does not help and when it does not help, other incompetences are allowed and, in the end, a living MP is allowed to be leveled with his card. That day, we came into a situation where we evened out the MP and his card and we took away the right to Parliament to tell the government that she couldn't pass her law until she finished it. Mrs. Natasa Micic took over to be president of the National Assembly of Serbia at the time that parliament lost the political match with the government. In that law, on that day, parliament lost the right to reject the government's laws, lost the right to ask the government to remove the laws from the agenda and, worst of all, that day parliament practically lost its ability to control the government. Since then, we have been working on a concept of parliament that is completely foreign to the DSS parliamentary group. Since then, all the dynamics in this House have rested on the following: the DSS is trying to restore its original powers to parliament. The original responsibility of parliament is to have a legislative initiative. It is the original jurisdiction of parliament to adopt or reject draft laws. It is the original jurisdiction of parliament that it can reject the government's laws. It is the original authority of parliament to control the government. All these original powers were lost when it was voted on by the Labour Act. The DSS tried to return some of these original powers to the Assembly with occasional procedural activities. Unfortunately, not only our grief but unfortunately Serbia, we failed in no such initiative. The rest of the DOS in each of these situations when we advocated establishing and restoring the original powers of parliament, managed to come out as a winner, to achieve Pir's victory. Since the rest of the DOS has tired of us asking for parliament to return to the role defined in democratic states, the next step was to take DSS MPs' seats. This assembly didn't discuss it, but it is the Administrative Committee. At the meeting of the Administrative Board, Mr. Jovanovic and I sat across from each other. I told him: Mr. Jovanovic, it will not be well received to take away our mandates because everyone in the world will realize that the political elite in Serbia is immature. They will not understand the gesture because when coalitions fall apart, whether pre-election or post-election, the crisis is resolved by forming a new majority in parliament either, or the election is being held. They will not understand that the mandates of 45 MPs are now taken away, and each MP carries around 15,000 votes, which is 645,000 votes. You can't undo 645,000 votes. Mr. Jovanovic was all that, I had the impression, I understood perfectly. His only answer was: this is a political decision. I understood Mr. Cedo Jovanovic well, but I understood that the old time had returned, that we had not yet set foot in a time when institutions, and in particular parliament, were older than someone's political decisions. I understand that in this country again, the oldest law is a political decision. If the DOS presidency has decided to withdraw its mandates, then the mandates are taken away, whether it can do so under the Constitution, whether it can by law, whether it harms the country's reputation. Parliament's president in this situation was in a good position -- a team before not everyone from DOS would like to -- to say DOS presidency gentlemen: gentlemen, the Assembly cannot discuss this because it is absurd. This cannot come to Nina's agenda of the Administrative Board, because your political decision is alleological. Then the reputation of Parliament's president would grow significantly. We had another disputed situation, which also contributed to Parliament's reputation slowly falling. Naturally, the reputation fell because the people felt that the Assembly had no original jurisdiction, that the Assembly had been demoted to some kind of service and government agency, that it was unable to control the government. Of course, if he is unable to control the government and is unable to bear his original powers, there is no reason for parliament to be respected. The congregation in general has lost respect. By the way, let me point this out. The rest of the DOS- did a very bad service to the government when it turned into its service and its agency, instead of keeping the government's levers in check. That's what we'll talk about when it comes to government work. That anger for the government was very bad. It was, in short, a bear service, because the government had lost its correction, without correction. Ministers met without being able to bring out and explain their programs here, so they lost touch with the public. The public thus formed the belief that the government either doesn't know what it's doing, or does something that the people don't understand, or does on someone's orders. That's not good for the government. We had a vague situation with the presidential election. The presidential election went the way it went. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has discussed what to do now. The president of the country's term of office has expired, the new one has not been elected. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs made it clear that there was a situation that the Constitution did not know. The Constitution doesn't know what to do in that situation. Mrs. Micic or the gentleman who chaired the Constitutional Committee's session, I suggested that it be determined that a constitutional crisis occurred in Serbia, that the Constitutional Committee's conclusion should be brought before the Assembly and that the Assembly should be asked to state what to do. The assembly would likely say that Natasa Micic, president of the assembly, is appointed acting as acting president of the Republic. That would be a completely different situation than it is now. We've had a few more controversial situations, and I won't remind you of everything. We have a situation so the Constitution doesn't change. The Constitutional Commission has been appointed, and when the Constitutional Commission appointed by the Assembly begins to work, the DOS presidency meets and dictates that Serbia's constitution should look like. Gentlemen, the communists didn't do it either. The KPJ did not openly bring the constitution itself, but tried through the Assembly. What you expected the democratic parties to stay here to work and be and implement the political will and political decisions of the DOS presidency. That's not possible. We had manipulation with the Constitutional Court -- it wasn't formed in time. His decisions are treated in the most diverse ways. We've had a familiar situation with the parliamentary mandates. We've had a situation where we haven't had a President of the Republic since 2000, and his powers have been in the hands of the Prime Minister, and today they're less -- more in the hands of the Prime Minister. So, an important institution like the President of the Republic is being subordinated to the Government. We had a government that had a terrible will for power. We had, therefore, a government that subdued Parliament, a government that subdued itself to the President of the Republic and the Government who subdued itself to the Constitutional Court. We have not appreciated any effort to divide the government and to take over every institution's share of jurisdiction. This huge huk that was carrying the government, that will that the executive power has everything, and that it can do anything, and that the political decision is the law in the state, has caused enormous damage to Serbia. She did a lot of damage first of all because the state didn't move out of the system we were in. Madam President said nicely yesterday - to quote: "When we have established this assembly, the majority of citizens at the time promised to change Serbia, that they would change the system that lasted 50 years with the modifications. For these underage three years, this congregation has worked more than in those 50 years. Before that, parliament was just a farce. "It would be good if at least a fraction of what the president of the assembly declared to be true, but he did not. We remain in a system where the executive authority has a huge advantage over all other branches of government, over the court, over the legislative one. We remain in a system where the political decisions of the authorities are above the institutions and in which institutions can function as they, in their own political interest, assess whether they should or should not. Gentlemen, a typical communist system. No wonder one of the MPs said this debate was very popular with the Socialists. Of course, they like it when they see that their political practice, that their method of rule has not changed at all. They hope, as soon as the practice has not changed, as soon as the forms, political customs have not changed, it will be possible to re-establish the same value system as before. I cannot say that Mrs Natasa Micic is responsible for the fact that communism in Serbia has survived these three years. We've got one post-Communism. We had ten years of something that was uncommunism, degenerated, which in its political ways, in its form, wanted to put into the national idea. In these forms, the national idea has hatched to that extent, that we have compromised both the nation and tradition and religion because of them. Now, post-communists point out the objectives: human rights, liberal economy, free competition, and remain in the same methods. The same values in this political practice, in such political forms, will cause the same consequences as uncommunist nationalism. It simply cannot stand in old political forms because democracy requires that the government be divided into legislative, executive and judicial, and that there is harmony between them, and that there are institutions, and that no one's political will can move any institution out of its function. Young people today in Serbia talk about reforms, which advocate pro-European politics, represent, unfortunately, a fully overcome political practice. The methods used by this authority have been exceeded. These methods can no longer survive, they must simply be forgotten. In short, I can't have anything against the president of the Assembly as a person, I can't have anything against the Democratic Party's representative either. But I understand that the President of the Assembly is personally responsible for accepting the political post-communist concept instead of a democratic concept, such as Mr Pajtic or Mr Ceda Jovanovic, who was before him a representative of the DOS here, personally responsible for failing to distinguish the position of the head of the strongest parliamentary group and the position of the government's trustee or commissioner in the assembly. Last night I accidentally turn Studio "B", Mr. Pajtic talks to me -- and he talks about the government. You're not in the government. You're an MP. It can't be -- we're looking for such or such support; the government is asking for support, and you're giving it support or not giving it. The whole problem is that we have neither been able to understand the role of the MP nor have we been able to understand the function of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly is responsible for failing to achieve what she stood for. On the contrary, instead of a democratic concept, she agreed to a post-communist concept, played an important role in the concept and was praised by the government for being very useful for the government's work. But the role of President of the Assembly is not to benefit the government, but to serve the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33504	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, a replica based on a direct mention in the presentation of the previous speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33505	I told my colleagues from the DSS a long time ago -- and I have to repeat it once again so there won't be any misunderstandings against all MPs of the National Assembly -- if you want to fight with the Democratic Party, then tell them that, that, that; leave us alone. If you want us on the line, go ahead, say it, say it, do it, do it... That would be fair. Comparing us with this time is inappropriate, because of everything that has been done in these three years, and whose significant part and accomplice is the Democratic Party of Serbia. We'll talk about it when it comes to the government. In ten years, 15 different choices were made. You can't call the election. You don't keep your promise and you can't call the election. It's one of the fundamental differences between the Socialists and the DOS. The second is -- at a non-democratic time, the socialist every MP could say how much he wanted, not to talk about the amendments. That's what the other MPs used to say. Third thing and most important, the congregation worked a little bit but it didn't steal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33506	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, followed by Parliament MP Milisav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33507	The initiative stemmed from a change in political will in Serbia. The relationship of power, political thinking has changed, and what is most important is that voters begin to plead quite differently than on October 5th and December 2000. You can deny these facts, but the evidence is your last presidential election. Presidential elections have shown that the voter's will has completely changed, unfortunately, to the detriment of the majority of yesterday's parliament, which now, by who knows which time, has been crossed into DOS - Serbia's Reform, but that's how it is for you in politics. The will of the people, the will of the voters, changes the moment that it was betrayed by the political parties that the people believed in. The people believed October 5th that DOS would bring everything they had promised the people. No one could suspect that the DOS would bring new responsibilities to Serbia instead of changing positively. And when the Assembly turned on that revolutionary democracy, and that was forgiven in relation to the promise that in Serbia, the number of employees would increase, that foreign capital would be attracted to Serbia, that in Serbia, as you said, and we simplifiedly explained to the people, honey and milk would flow. And when he became convinced after three years that there was nothing of your promises, the people encouraged the Serbian Radical Party to launch such an initiative? What's strange about this initiative? What is more logical and normal than when the people's will changes in Serbia, that this will is reflected in parliament by demanding the removal of the Parliament's president? In my opinion, the role of the name and last name of the person who happens to be performing that function has been overemphasizing. It could be called what a columnist often calls - the one with the bag. But the fact is, by respecting the will of the people, he must leave that function. The relationship of power in this House has changed. That's obvious. The proof is your agenda. The adoption of this item of the agenda and other points is the will of the majority that does not contribute to statements before the maintenance of this assembly of some DOS leaders to have an absolute majority. They said, "We'll take it off the agenda, we've got 126 MPs." Apparently, gentlemen, you've been betrayed by taxi drivers and those I.D. MPs. You have to respect reality. Under the agenda, arguments are discussed. So, what, on all the arguments, have we heard from the person who's currently president? We heard the argument, we heard one of Socrates' speeches. Not the philosopher Socrates, but the one who used that pseudonym while he was reporting, while he was ratting out, while working for national security. You mean, you're convinced that Serbia believes you. He doesn't believe it, gentlemen. Serbia believed until the moment it passed reform, as you say, the laws did not begin to apply to fraud. Your first scam went away, so you thought you could do as long as you wanted. The first law you've passed is the Labour Act. Under suspicious circumstances, that law was passed. Instead of reacting, no matter what the political force ratio was within the coalition at the time, you had to present before this assembly a proposal to set up a polling committee, if nothing else. No, you didn't, but you went so far as to start making messengers, who are living witnesses, so naive, so blind, that some began to doubt what they saw. You see how that came back to you as a boomerang. On countless times repeated warnings from opposition MPs, and especially from the president of the Serbian Radical Party, that the gym was not physically present with enough MPs, we heard from the person who chaired that we were wrong, regardless of having 20 MPs physically present, there are so many cards and even so much irony at times that she said - I guess I believe what the screen shows to you than the MPs. We could understand, and she was right when she had the support of the majority. However, when there was a vote on the lustration law, when the MPs who were in Beijing voted in a magical way, you had to react at that moment, because you could see in front of yourself live, and the other one you had a listing, you had to say -- no, it's not a regular vote, let's repeat the vote. You're going out with a story in your defense that wants to be taken down by those who are against the lustration law. Who's the biggest opponent of the lustration law? Just the Socrates that gave you suggestions for speeches. First under the lustration law is your party president. There's a rule everywhere in the world, and it's not like you're going to avoid that rule. First, those who worked, tipped off, ratted out, harvested for national security. First, he'll follow that law. You're not going to tell me that we Serbian radicals are going to be hit? For that you have an argument, because full of mouths or as you say pure heart and calm conscience, even a dirty conscience can be sometimes calm, because a man is unconscious if his conscience is dirty. You've been punishing us Serbian radicals. You're not the first, and that's indicative. When the regime is in crisis, it hits Serbian radicals. We were brought here by special forces to banish us, to put pressure on us; here, and the Prime Minister remembered, the other night said on TV, only one thing he lied about, wasn't there. At the time, he was fascinated by the image of Milorad Vucelic. That's when he was attracted to him. He was Slobodan Gavrilovic, he was Djordje Basic in front of the Democratic Party and was Vladan Batic, as an honest and honorable people, MPs jumped to defend Serbian Radicals, and Zivkovic was not, because he was in the hallway, negotiating with Vucelic, and then I guess a commission was already agreed. We resist it and resist your punishments, but you will be remembered for it. Don't worry, the fate of anyone who's improvistically involved in politics is always the same. It was there and more powerful, there were more powerful, and we can't remember their names today. We may remember you if some chroniclers, through time, were to tell us that you were in this place, but we would best remember if, with dignity, the person who chaired this assembly, confessing his failures, his mistakes, did not resign, but asked to vote again on the governor, on the lustration law, on the labour law, on all those laws that have been passed under a suspicious majority, and not to stand as a great plus of your rule that you have passed many laws, so make a comparison and say, we have passed more laws than in the past 50 years. Perhaps happiness would have been for Serbia if most of these laws had not been passed by this assembly. Perhaps luck would have been if the Labour Act hadn't been passed. Never has a worker been disproved so much but by passing the Labour Act. Perhaps it would have been happier for Serbia if it hadn't been for this privatisation law, not because the law is good or bad, but because the man who executes it is not clearly up to one such law. Perhaps it would have been better if the governor's law had been detained and that it had been discussed later. Perhaps it would be better, and to check what I am saying as a possibility, the best thing to do is to put this item on the agenda as soon as possible, to see what the relationship in parliament is like, to see what the mood in Serbia is like. I know that it is personally difficult for you to do this, I know that there are honest and honest people, primarily from the Democratic Party, who are very difficult to bear, especially those moments when you've been giving huge money to buy other MPs, but even though these are difficulties, you still have to think that one day, if nothing else, history will positively or negatively write about you; positive about those who ever admit their guilt. And, don't think that anyone will set you free when you've thrown out the MPs with your will, changed them, and the highlight of your cynicism on all of it is that you say and so far you go so that you can question me as an MP tomorrow whether Mile was a Korean or not. Here's proof, my colleague Rafaelovic came out for this pay phone and said - I wasn't in the Assembly, my card was misused. You say - we will form a survey committee to determine what Rafaelovic said. You know, there's a measure everywhere. The fact that your newly elected or newly appointed president of the parliamentary group comes out here with one mystified philosophy of thesis and antithesis, that means nothing to us. If Serbia understands it, if Serbia articulates what it wants, let it go to that Serbia, whether in this form or in that form, Serbia will say in the elections what you think, highly minded, or what one says highly intelligent thinks, so Serbia will evaluate it. What I would say in the end, as far as the personality is concerned, a colleague from the Democratic Party has said all your values and advantages, of course by saying that the Croats and the Slovenians have said it. All your personal values and advantages were discovered by photographers, paparazzi, published on the front page, and that's not bad. I have to admit that I can't declare anything ugly for such a nice lady, but these aren't personal accounts, this is Serbia's defence, this is an appeal for you to listen to and hear Serbia's voice to discuss the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33508	The People's Messenger Milisav Petkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33509	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, tells us that we have stolen parliamentary mandates. A very strange story -- we've been stealing from 176 for three years, as long as this ruling majority had when it entered parliament, we're down to 127. How is it possible that we're stealing and it's shrinking? When MPs move from position to opposition, that's patriotism for you. If someone from the opposition accidentally votes for some government law, then it's treason. It's Natasa Micic's fault that Rambuje was signed, it's her fault it was the bombing, it's her fault that America attacked Iraq. Is there anything else we could attribute to her and tell her what the president of our Parliament is guilty of? There's no rabbit or truth here. The truth is on the other side. What's the truth? It's true that the DSS and the G-17 have abandoned us and united with those we replaced on October 5th. Why did they do that, that's what we should ask them. We want an emergency election. On June 28, 2001, the DSS, the SRS, the SS and the SPS united. Four months only after the constitution of this Parliament and after the government's work begins. Why did they join them just then? It is very easy to figure it out, but the basic thing is that they were the last ones to join us; those who were the last to join us in the fight against Milosevic's regime, they were the first ones to leave this DOS ship and leave us. Where you saw DSS MPs at the Together Coalition, 15 days before the election, they joined us. In the Together Coalition, when we visited all the rallys in Serbia and when we raised the people to their feet, when we explained what was going on, we only then saw them joining; and we realized that the people voted for them alone. When did you meet the MPs of the Democratic Party, when did you see a Martian or Michael? I've been to Panchev three times, they were mytines, and I've never seen them. We just met them on January 25th here in parliament, and that's why they left us first, and that's why they first joined that other ship. I am not angry with the SRS, and I have no reason, nor am I angry with the SPS, but I wonder what would happen to those who were with us on October 5th for the change, for the European Union, for the restructuring of businesses, for our children to stay in Serbia. What happened to them, what motives were stronger? At the same time they were also on the street in Belgrade on October 5th, but they were thinking about countermitting, at the same time they thought it was possible to be on the Theatres and on the mouth, but it's impossible. We're stealing mandates, and we're getting smaller. You're talking about affairs and the main concept you've made that your affair is a platform. Who else remembers Cheda's zebra or I don't know what you've been making up; what did you want, that we might take a diplomat under our hands, so we can take him to Slavia to cross over to the Republic Assembly if he goes from the presidency? Is that what the people in Serbia are interested in, was that the topic with which we had to build a political platform? You're talking about some of the votes on the side or some of our affairs, some building, the building of Ruseta's uncle or uncle, and I don't know whose building it is, and you care more about this building than the fact that 86m euros went into the Collar mines this day for this people to have electricity. It's more important to you than the Kolubara history has never been discovered again than this year. You don't want to talk about these things. You make up how some MPs of the Democratic Party want to leave, so the yellow press is full of headlines -- three MPs move to PDS or cross over there. The MPs of the Democratic Party are not sold, they paid a fat price to sit here and you won't be able to buy any. Let him explain now, these critics of ours... You know the price politically well how much we paid, our families were at risk, our lives were at stake all over the country. Compare this parliamentary life with the former, he says -- Tomic was better than Natasha Micic. And in what? In putting me in uniform three times to dig trenches, in the fact that he had been sitting in parliament for three or four days throughout the year, he was better at it. Well, I agree, and I don't mind that some people think it was better, it's the SRS and the SPS. I'm asking these from the DSS -- is that better for them, too? You're telling us our affairs are so great, and what about your affairs? Since you're not ashamed to talk about it, you're bringing up some affairs, like this affair about voting for the governor with five months late. Well, why didn't you sit upstairs at the gallery if you didn't want to do the quorum, so you went right out and advertised, not tear down the system institutions in Serbia? Finally, Serbia has institutions, and we have finally begun to build them. Last year, this parliament occupied 95 working days, 45 laws passed. During the 1970s, an hour lasted; during Tomic three or four days 1997 and 1998, during the Martian era we had only one law on 15 working days. I know, it suits you not to work, but tell us, we don't want to work, we want to criticize you. I feel like a man who carries 50 kilos of cement on himself, and you-- I work, you beat me. Now let's get this cement off our backs, let's discuss the election, and see how we fight politically with the truth. The truth is, we know we're working, we know how to turn this Serbian evil into good, we know how to make enemies of friends. The truth is, he can never come back here again what was before October 5th. The truth is, we're going to conduct a trial on the murdered prime minister to the end, that we're going to find out who did it. The truth is, we're going to clear up with economic crime, today or tomorrow, in this or in another system, but there are some things that can't be cleared up. When it comes to the assessment of the work of Parliament's president, I thank her today that our children will have a future in Serbia tomorrow. To conclude, this electricity bill could never reach the citizens after the New Year's Eve if we had put the energy law on the agenda, that a Roma citizen who spent 500 dinars of 2,000 dinars. We haven't done a lot of things yet, we've done a lot of things somewhere, and we haven't done it because you've obstructed us, because you've destroyed the quorum, because you've destroyed the institutions in this country. Let us get the energy law into the agenda, so you'll see how we can build a state and a company.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33510	On the basis of the party's mention, Radko Obradovic has the right to replicate, so MP Dejan Mihajlov, on the basis of a direct mention of the parliamentary group, or political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33511	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I must say two things, for the sake of the presentation of fellow MPs: firstly, the SPS is not in a coalition with any political party, we are only in a coalition with Serbia and with citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have to say that in the past 10 years, we've had technical governments or programming governments with several parties and no one has been, to say the least, nervous about it, nor has he expressed any protest at that time. There was also talk of both the SRS and the New Democracy at local level and the parties, it seems to me, Hungary and the Democratic Party; and today there are these situations at the local site and no one is making a question, if the citizens are interested in the first plan. So much for post-election coalitions, and if it was luck, we'd have them a long time ago. It is true that as early as 2001, we were looking for extraordinary elections, following the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic and the extradition of The Hague, because even then and now we were against the extradition of our citizens to The Hague; it has proved that we were both right then and now; here, now, after raising these charges, we see how hypocritical and double-arshishion of this government. While it's a socialist or someone from a state and military structure who favors us, then it's understood that he should go to The Hague, then it's a command responsibility, then he needs to be extradited, then a patriotic act should be to go there. Now that the criteria have changed, now that that's being questioned, some new arguments are now being asked, exactly what we're talking about. We're against extradition and these four men, but it's a shame that the current government is now talking one thing, and she's talking the other. There's no reason for you to honor us for anything. Here, to every argument of yours, I'll be very happy to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33512	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihaylov, a member of the DSS, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33513	Mr. Petkovic, if it wasn't sad, it would be funny if someone were so facelessly lying, but well, it goes to your soul. Here in the Assembly, as if a contest had been opened which of these MPs of the Democratic Party would be an MP in the next 15 mandates they will receive after the snap elections, so now you all prove your loyalty to this policy that you are leading. You, Mr. Petkovic, have run well for it and, if some others do not have influence, I will commend you to your elders, if they have not watched this session and you will certainly enter a narrow selection of 20 MPs. Since your candidate in the presidential election won two votes in your village, I don't know how you're going to get back to your village. That's probably why you built a house in Belgrade, but it says more about you than it does about me. The DSS does not want Dragan Tomic or Natasa Micic, as these are two sides of the same medal. We want to change the system, we want strong institutions, we want a strong parliamentary and democratic state. That's why, since we were against each other, we're against each other. There's no difference. Mr. Radulovic talked about it. You changed power, the system didn't. You can't lawlessly change lawlessness, and you can't take away thieves and steal thieves. When you talk about construction, only the mafia highways and facilities of Ms. Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic or some other family are being built in Serbia. I don't see anything else being built in Serbia. If we talk about why the energy law, which was on the agenda in June, was removed from the agenda, on a proposal from the government. Why was he taken off? Why are you now telling us about this and why, by an emergency procedure Monday, it came to debate the law. If you're talking about Colubari, you weren't at the Colubari on October 1, 2, or 3, 2000. There were others there. You went there to buy social peace, not to do anything else, when these miners fought for you to sit in this congregation and when you're over their backs and backs of those who came and entered this congregation, you're now telling us where we were. Who was at the Colubary when the Colubary was surrounded by militia? You weren't in that Colubary, and you can't get any of that feathers. Who's who, we'll see. Everyone in their town lives. I can go to my town, go without security, and I'll always go. I live there, unlike you, and I love my fellow citizens, I love my city. Who will live and who will do what will show the future. Each one of them wears a cross. I hope you bring yours, but not in Belgrade, but in a city where you have been given a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33514	The word is made by MP Dragan Marsicanin, a replica to the presentation of Parliamentarian Milosevic Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33515	It's hard to replicate Mr. Petkovic. Mr. Petkovic is a good man. However, he made several very wrong claims, and I'd only like to kill some of them. Of course, I'm not going to take part in the debate about the award of these first-party badges and badges, where who was who and who was doing what, that's something to leave for history textbooks, to leave for their beautiful or ugly memories, and we need to see where we are today. What should concern you, Mr Petkovic, as well as all your fellow Members, is not where at this point at one point in the agenda or at three points in the agenda, nor does it matter who sent the proposal to the Assembly. It's not defined according to yes or no. I think you're defining yourself, if you're politically responsible, by the essence of the matter, rather than by the Proposer. So, if at one point in the agenda, as you have gathered with the Soviets during my replacement, as we have all gathered with the Declaration on Kosovo, all the parliamentary groups in this parliament, then, according to these points of the agenda -- the vote of mistrust to the President of the Assembly and the vote of mistrust to the Republic government -- the majority of the assembly gathered. What you need more to worry about is not that it's a completely clean situation for anyone who can logically think politically, but something else: what happened in these three years, and at this point we leave aside the party of the former regime, which we call, the parties that used to be in power, and today are in opposition, what happened to those parties who, together with your party in 2000, shot down that regime? (Milka Marinkovic: Only the best remain. ) Milka, don't boil loudly, please. How is it possible for the DSS, G-17, SPO, New Serbia, to be found on one side at this time, all those who met against Slobodan Milosevic's regime in 2000? When you answer that question, it will cease to be a question of what seems to be controversial to you, it will cease to be a question of who suggested what proposal, but it will become only important to you to achieve what was promised here in 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33516	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33517	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it would be very important to focus this debate on those fundamental topics that were opened on Thursday. If this is approached correctly, then you will see that it is very important who is with whom today, because the strength of these alliances depends on the realisation of the policies in which these alliances are made. So it's impossible to be on the principle of October 5th with those you were against on October 5th. If that wasn't clear a year or two ago, when we were dividing within our coalition, administratively because we didn't agree to bend those principles, regardless of the price involved in the realisation of that policy, it's clear today -- it's impossible to be a democracy and build democracy in Serbia with those who were the biggest obstacle to that democracy. It is impossible to reform Serbia, while, at the same time, as the ideal towards which it strives through this reform, highlight the principles that are mentioned here today. Who will return the nationalized property with those who have nationalized that property? You're criticizing us for the lack of legislation on denationalisation, and in fact, you, by your own policy, were the biggest obstacle to the adoption of that law. You're talking about the energy law here today and you're simply counting on our inability to answer. The Energy Act was withdrawn in June because the unions were consulted at the time and because another round of talks with those people was needed, in order to achieve a good law that was then returned to the Assembly. When we talk about October 5th, October 4th, the Colubarians, I remind you that you received your answer from those people last year when you were waiting for 30 miners in an election campaign in the same place, not three thousand, to receive your answer through the strikes of those miners who rebelled against the leadership that was personified by your MP who was removed, among other things, because of the poor results in the business. It doesn't matter when it's said that 90m euros have entered the system, when it's said that these people work and produce and make their children live from it. Their children do not live on what is offered to them today as a clear alternative to an alliance that contains all these numerous parties, with only one thing in common - the conquest of power. When you're so sure of your strength, why didn't you run in the presidential election, why don't you stop with all your strength against a 70-year-old man? Why not talk today about Serbia's elections as a way to solve these problems. It's just that these choices are something that's waiting for us. We have also been to the elections in Svilinc, Cicevic and Priboj together with representatives of the parties who today have their deputies here in parliament. And if these elections are an announcement of what will happen in the parliamentary elections, then only today do I make it clear to you that we are thinking about the price. Not about the price for our party, for our coalition, for our government, but about the price for our society. The price you didn't think about when you said in March 2001 whether it was possible to bring down this government and this government, so take their place or change Serbia or something that's profitable. That price you didn't think about in June, when you refused to follow that policy that, among other things, had to be imposed, because of the need of our society, and the return to the international community. We have made it very clear that we will co-operate with The Hague tribunal, and we are doing so, but we have also made it very clear that as a government we are responsible for the situation in our society, because that co-operation has a price. You could have heard that price yesterday. We do not agree to the unspeakable acceptance of the kind of ultimatum that we are facing after a process in which we have more than clearly demonstrated our democratic potential, built institutions that allow society to be considered a state. Those who have been in a position with us to do something like that and have not worked because they are not capable of such a thing are certainly no problem for us today. If the question of the final quality of the policy that was being conducted here, then we followed a policy where there was power and not powerlessness, a policy that could possibly have been conflicting and contradictory, but it was the only real one. It is true that in the elections we have been elected as one coalition, as one parliamentary group, to change this country, and it is true that we have sanctioned your disseminating from this policy a shift from the post of president of parliament and exclusion from the Serbian parliament, in accordance with the Law on the Selection of MPs by which we have been elected in this Parliament. The fact that in other places there was no responsibility for these laws to be respected and applied is proof of the institutional incompetence and absence of power in individuals, in people who need this society today. So if one is a synonym politician in a skirt, then it certainly is not the President of Parliament, it is a man who was powerless and on October 5th when, among other things, people like the President of Parliament brought him to power. It is a man who, at every difficult moment, has built his position on ignorance and ignorance and who, with his party or with the parties who support him there is no perspective. We, as the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, will very clearly participate in this debate, offer arguments that will answer the questions of the economic and social profile of our society, but of course send our messages to our society in which it will very clearly show that you do not agree with the kind of political alliance that existed between us and that cannot be restored because, believe it or not, it is important to who you are, because of who you are dependent on and who you are with.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33518	The word has been made by MP Vladan Jovicic, mentioned directly in the presentation of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia as an MP who served as director at Kolubara.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33519	The esteemed chairman, fellow MPs and dear friends who are (it is a traditional greeting in the Democratic Party of Serbia), I am the one who launched some things on 29 September, not October 5th, in Kolubara, and I am the only man who is not a crisis chief of staff who was brought to the post of the "Colubara" director, but by the decision of the Management Board of Elektroprivreda Serbia, on the proposal of the general director of the Elektroprivreda Serbia. I was replaced because I am a member of the DSS and because we have a sacred Serbia, because during my directorate, I showed that 54.4% of the costs planned at that level that year to rationalise, at EPS level, a public company that I ran was created; twenty-two public enterprises were not interested in reform, were not interested in change in this society, they were not interested in anything. Of course I've been replaced in the way it suits me, because we've already heard from my colleague Milo, you remember that from the time you collaborated through a university conference with the late Zoran Todorovic. Simply and simply put, I've been replaced the way you do. Mr. Jovanovic, it is a dramatic but you know something from history. Remember the Second AUNO: some delegates didn't come to that session. It was also a night session. I don't think people change at the veterinary station at night, with the national security of your Nenad Milic and Tose Dimitrijevic, not real national security. Therefore, those facts that I've been replaced because of the inconsistencies are incorrect. The current deputy, recently your personal friend who was appointed as Minister of Energy and Mining, is in his office with then an inspector for economic crime, since three rounds of financial police found nothing and proved in the court's process of falsifying certain people's statements, removing documents, pushing false documents when neither I nor my legal representative knew why the proceedings were initiated, but of course needed an affair. It is precisely your DSS information service that sends home friend Vojislav Kostunica through email. I wish I was a home friend of Vojislav Kostunica's, but I didn't. Kostunica attacks the government's work, and his home friend kidnaps mining money to build a house. Mr. Jovanovic, I don't live as a tenant somewhere, I live in a house that was made in 1962 by a loan. You're so casually talking about something that you don't have a real job job with either you or your colleague Mile. You've finished your geology, and I've finished mining. It's easy to talk from the position of an imaginary assistant director of human resources. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) The assistant director of human resources has a salary of around 85,000-86.000 dinars. Normally, you will fight for it, but the DSS, not one of its representatives has turned the phone or the district attorney's office to urinate for his MP and member, but everyone has to be available to justice; that's what we've been fighting for, and that's what we have to fight for, not to go back to the affair why Branko Black is now in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33520	People's MP, please finish your line. Thank you. The reply was addressed by the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet, an authorised representative.... You're in 10 minutes. The right of the promoter, as the promoter of the Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic, so the right of replicas is sought by MP Dejan Mihajlov, and by MP Milisav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the impression that we've been, with no attention at the moment of the chairmanship, but an hour off topic. I'd like to remind you of the subject of the agenda. The government hasn't come to the agenda yet, and I can see you're anxious to finish this first act today and tomorrow, so we'll talk a lot about the Serbian government. The proposal to resolve Natasha Micic was submitted to protect parliament and parliamentarianism. So I would ask you not to divide us, or put us in some impossible, unnatural and non-existent coalition. There are no coalitions here. There is a proposal here submitted by 54 MPs, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The debate has led many other MPs to feel the same way and to wish to debate and support this proposal. We don't see what's wrong with that, and why it's initiating a coalition now. You seem to be ill with some coalitions. I don't want to get involved with what you have with each other. The first 176 you had in 2000, so now you're, as you say, burned to 127, if there are so many, but there's one saying - from a ship that sinks first. So your number is constantly falling, and how much we will know only after the vote on the President of Parliament and especially about the confidence of the Government. However, that hatred that the president of the assembly today followed this speaker, and yesterday also showed against Serbian patriots and patriotism at all, is so great, it is so huge that I would not be surprised that in some process before The Hague, it is a witness of C117, for example. You can't also, dear gentlemen, impute us, and everything has been going on these days since this point is in the process, that we're now stopping some reforms and that we're constantly obstructing something. Please, I know that for you, this law that you're talking about, about both rail and energy, it's vitally important, it needs to be done as soon as possible, but it's going to destroy and sell out the same energy system. We, of course, want to stop it. It's been in the process a long time. We have long submitted amendments; you have withdrawn them and returned them again. Now, like, you're in a hurry, and we're not gonna work. If anyone worked in this assembly of parliament, it was the opposition. I'm sorry we didn't have this kind of agenda and mistrust with the government when we put up with it, this is the third time. Finally, we would have heard those MPs of the DOS-Reform Serbia speak. We'd see who they are and what they are. Even so, they've been cultivating for the last three years, and how, here in Belgrade, they've graduated from various schools, learned to treat and dress. If we compare the picture of Parliament in 2000 and this one now, the staging is completely different, but that is not what the citizens of Serbia are interested in. They're interested in something else, whether they have a perspective or not. We will talk about all this when the second item of the agenda is on the agenda and when we talk about the Serbian government. Now, please, if you have any further arguments to defend everything we've put on the president of the Assembly, to bring them out eventually, and if you don't have, we can even finish the debate, we can approach the vote. It is absolutely clear that the current president of the National Assembly was not up to the function she was performing and that she was warned of it at the time. President Seselj told her once well-meaningly - it would be good, Mrs Micic, to stop harassing the opposition MPs, especially the MPs of the SRS, and to understand once that all these harassments are only at your expense and to the harm of the coalition you belong to. I am convinced that this is indeed to your great harm, and that the greatest damage to your behavior is being suffered by your coalition right now. It's a risk she wanted to take herself. We had the opportunity in Parliament that you, as chairman, would listen blindly to only the parliamentary majority, not to do your job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, protecting the institution of parliament. At one point, Mr Jovanovic presented one, unfortunately, truth that was still far away from us at the time, which was February 25th, 2002. Look out, a year before Vojislav Seselj went to The Hague. Cedomir Jovanovic said after his presentation of the SRS President, Dr Vojislav Seselj: "Mr Seselj, you are nervous about The Hague tribunal, because of the war crimes you have organised and committed". Then he went on to say, "Be sure to answer for everything you've done." At that time, Cedomir Jovanovic knew that in the next few months, the indictment had to be prepared. At the time, he claimed that he had evidence that someone was committing war crimes, accused, ruled, put everything he had or didn't have in hand, which he invented or I don't know what he was doing. At the time, Mrs Micic did not react at all in parliament, and she should have reacted. We have often called in this House, ladies and gentlemen, for the dignity of the National Assembly. In one statement by the then president, the head of the DOS parliamentary club, which later became Deputy Prime Minister, all the MPs were called court freaks. At the apparition of Dr Vojislav Seselj to the President of the Assembly that it was humiliating for all the MPs, she just said - I'm sorry, Mr. Seselj, that you recognized yourself in that. She does not think that all the MPs are offended by that act. All MPs can be court crazy if Ceda Jovanovic says so. It was Chad then, and then someone else, but always someone who had influence from the Serbian government on this parliament. It was put to the vote whether it was an insult that the MPs were crazy or not and, of course, the parliamentary majority voted that the court's crazy is something that is not offensive to the MPs and that is common, and that the situation was reversed, so by chance now, gentlemen, you are the court's crazy, I believe that Mrs. Comic would have to react. I'd react if I were her. That wasn't the case then. Furthermore, Ms. Micic's explanation for these court madmen was - in fact the whole confusion came because you recognized yourself as a court fool, that you did not go out on that basis, absolutely, we voted that this was not about you, but about all the MPs who act like this. You understand, the sentence is, of course, incomprehensible right to the end, but the meaning is clear. We were able to be called here for Mrs. Micic with all kinds of ugly names, but then God forbid we just said something at the expense of the government about the crime that was going on, about the affairs that were going on, warned about it much earlier than it started to appear in the press. They were baseless accusations back then. Then it was, as you could say, a personal intrusion; it seemed to me that kind of construction was. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't move the subject to another track. We should stay on this topic, at the vote on the resolution proposal for Natasa Micic, as president of the assembly. Natasa Micic as Natasa Micic is not interested in us. By protecting the institution of the President of the Assembly, by protecting parliament, we are protecting the state. The state's interest is at stake. If we don't mind Natasa Micic, the way she is, then we know where we're going. Where we're going, I think we'll best be confirmed by voters in the upcoming election. They'll tell us who's wrong, who's wrong. I remember Mr. Micunovic last year in the Time List in an interview asking if he wanted to run for President of the Republic said -- never, never occurred to me. In the list of "Nin," he said -- I'm too old for that kind of thing, I'm a retired man. How come now that Dragoljub Micunovic has decided to run for office, that is indeed the question we will get, hopefully, the answer after the election. It is clear to voters that they must decide and have only two alternatives: one that represents alleged reforms, rhetorical reforms that lead us to fail and another -- reforms that can be carried out by Serbian radicals with all personnel, as patriots, people who know how and where this country should lead. One more thing, gentlemen, what you're always saying - that we're not going to Europe and that sort of thing; Serbia should not go to Europe, Europe should come to Serbia. Europe will come to Serbia when all conditions exist in Serbia that it can fertilise its capital and that it has security for the capital it imports. As long as they're recruited by certain members of the government, there's nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33522	You are giving a replica to the presentation of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, based on the mention of the party. MP Dejan Mihajlov, the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33523	This initiative by the Democratic Party of Serbia to replace the government that will be said of, I hope, next week is not an attack on October 5th. On the contrary, this initiative is a fight for the ideals for which we fought together on October 5th. Let's remind ourselves, on October 5th, we fought for the people's will that someone tried to steal. In your words, I see regrettable that you failed to steal the people's will and mandates of the Democratic Party of Serbia. You are wrong and sorry that you failed to kidnap 700 or 800,000 votes that supported and supported, when our mandates overlap, the Democratic Party of Serbia's mandates. That's why we fought on October 5th. After all, you gave us the right to vote for the shift of Natasa Micic and the shift of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the democratic and legal parliamentary state cannot be built with those who are not Democrats. That's why we want to go to the snap elections, get this assembly to get new legitimacy and get forces to build a legal and democratic state. We definitely can't do that with you because you're in no condition to do it. Those who dare to steal mandates, to violate the people's will, pass as did those who recognised the results of the elections on October 5th. The Democratic Party of Serbia accepts your challenge, Mr Jovanovic, to discuss the extraordinary parliamentary elections and to all measure the strength and what we have been doing for the past three years in these elections. If what you've been doing is so good, reformically, and if you're so sure of the support you have, don't doubt that we are wrong and that we are asking that we be even less in this assembly, if you assume that you will get an even bigger majority or more MPs than this number you now have in the Serbian Parliament. We're ready to go to that election. We can't wait for them. Set them up to measure our strength, if you're threatening these elections all the time, finally respect what you're saying, call those elections. We're not afraid of choices. We went to the presidential election twice last year. We got about two million votes in those elections and we beat the candidates who are twice as young as the candidates who are currently running in these elections. The election is not afraid, on the contrary, we look forward to winning them and getting partners with which we will be able to build a democratic state, a democratic force.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33524	The word has the president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33525	Gentlemen from the Democratic Party of Serbia, to say the least, you have deeply disappointed me. I can see it's not easy for you at all, and not only because you've brought forth only falsely and because you don't know what the responsibility of an individual is, and what is the authority of the institution, but because the essence is that you, gentlemen, are not informed that those with whom you make most today are no longer in power. There's nothing to be afraid of. If you've run that policy before 2000, now they're out of power and you have nothing to be afraid of. Now I'm going to show you and prove how scared you were. My predecessor, and your representative, while he was chairman, made it out of parliament so that he looks like the opposition got power and we lost. He generously allowed us to be insulted, harassed and humiliated here, following such an order. That's the first thing. Furthermore, you chose a non-participation policy in the quorum when it is the interest of hundreds of thousands of citizens, but that is why your representative is there when it is necessary to preserve the immunity of Milovana Boyic, perhaps even the money. Almost two years from here, I've been watching you scurry and dodging with red-and-blacks. You've lost your politics. You're taking their policy. Do you think if you take their policy that's how you take voters? Is that why your President Kostunica didn't have time to come here to defend the Constitutional Charter, he couldn't negotiate with the prime minister about the constitution, but he had time to consult with Slobodan Milosevic? Is that why you were against his delivery to The Hague? Is the concept of your legalism, which you are referring to, the Constitution that is Milosevic's constitution again? Is it fascinating in Milosevic's constitution that they are small restrictions on government or that you are social property? Why didn't you vote for lustration? Is it a greater mistake for some minister to stay in power for three months or for leaving Rado Markovic after 5 October three months longer? I'm running out of time. I'll continue tomorrow. I respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33526	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Cedomir Jovanovic. You asked for a replica of the exhibition of Natasha Micic. You'll be entitled to a replica after the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33527	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you must finally, as critics, not the President of Parliament, not the Government, but the policies that the Government and the President of Parliament have implemented within their jurisdiction, offer that alternative, that you must say what you want to do with this country, what you would do in these critical situations in which it has taken on yourself the government or the President of Parliament. What would you decide on March 12th instead of a decision proposed by the Government and declared by the President of Parliament? Are you concerned about the state of emergency that has been introduced illegally and unconstitutionally, as you claim, or because it has led us to all the evidence and facts that, among other things, represent you as the political sponsors of a crime in this country? Please state the alternative, if not the one we saw in that period that preceded October 5th. The date should no longer be invoked, but I told you that this assembly continues today on October 5th. It is, among other things, because of our willingness to respect you and tolerate you as our political competition, regardless of the level of expression of political attitudes that have often been exactly what these stenograms mentioned. Remember, even today most of the MPs in this House are not the court's crazy ones. Remember, even today, most Serbian citizens are not the incompetent majority who cannot understand the price of what is happening today in our society. When we talk about "Colubers" then we're not talking about running a political duel and fighting, and don't expect me to turn the assembly debate here into proof of your incompetence as political leadership or sponsor of what was going on in Colubari, but it's very clear that it's much better there today than when the people you brought there led that company. Don't talk about private companies, fictitious contracts, engagements, because that's not the level of congregation debate. You're here to offer an alternative. The alternative to what we're doing, I don't think it can be quality. The price of what we've been doing is high and we're willing to pay that price, but we don't doubt that at any moment that such a thing can consciously understand our society, not those of its representatives who have long forgotten the policy that has actually chosen them as MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Unity, victory, change -- it was a political programme with which DOS came to power in September 2000. Not fictitious, false unity, not unity around illusion or historical categories, but unity over the European vision of modern Serbia; and if there is no majority today that will achieve this vision there is in Serbia and we are not afraid to ask Serbia what it wants to be tomorrow. That is something we will do when we estimate that such a thing is celery and in a way that will completely allow you to, no matter what you have done in the previous period, be worthy of competition, if you have such a kind of policy, but I call on you to present this policy here today to the MPs, representatives of Serbian citizens. Because if you do not present it in the Assembly and if your policy is actually a reminder of what has happened in this country for the past three years, then I must tell you a simple law of physics: the past cannot become a future and will not become a future as long as it is politically dependent on our coalition that can be a minority in this parliament, but is not a minority in Serbia, because Serbia does not want to live in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33528	The word is made by MP Dragan Marsican, a replica to the presentation of the National Assembly President Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33529	Just one short replica. I've been objecting to something I'm proud of. I have been objected that I treated all the MPs at the time of being the president of this assembly in the same way. I have been objected to exactly what we are objecting to in our objections to today's National Assembly President Natasa Micic, that this criterion is not the same. It's a small burden to put on her soul. What's bigger, what's more important, what she also mentioned here today in an act that I really can't find the reasons for, really something that carries elements of mild hysteria, completely unfounded. We're here to discuss whether someone who's in high office has done his job well or not, whether or not he's violated the Constitution. We're talking about that there are decisions of the Constitutional Court that have given that assessment, we're talking about a state of emergency, which is also mentioned... It's about what you suggested. We have proposed, with all the risks, with all the difficulties we would put on our backs, a concentration government as a democratic solution in a country that is one step away from chaos. What's gotten into the state of emergency? It didn't come to what you said. What we knew was that government members were involved in organised crime, that government members had ties to organised crime, and here I quote one of the Deputy Prime Ministers, who said it publicly at a time when the state of emergency was still going on -- several government members have ties to organised crime. I told Mr. Jovanovic that he had a visit to prison, and then the whole story was that he was doing it for patriotic reasons, Mr. Spasojevic etc. I know you've been preparing those tapes, I've been told, but let's see them, and let's comment on them. It's all right, but it's proven to you. You live in houses of those and such people. You receive from them abbeys, they take you on a vacation, etc. So, it's a good thing that action was carried out. It's not a good thing it was carried out so late. We also learned during the state of emergency from the second Deputy Prime Minister that a number of government members are "involved in economic crime". We knew that. We didn't know your vice presidents knew that, but they wouldn't say any more, because then at the government, you agreed to put it under the rug. So that's what this is all about and there's no need to be nervous. The issue of responsibility is one common issue in all countries considered democratic. When the debate is over, then it is put to a vote, and when it is voted, then it is known whether someone has received trust in a job that has worked or not and there is no drama. There's only one coalition falling apart and there's a panic fear of losing power.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33530	The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33531	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I want to bring a little concern into this cheerful atmosphere, but without the intention of having fun with these topics, while living outside is taking place as these thousand days since the formation of the first government of Zoran Djindjic, to first thank those who have proposed a second and third point and thus give the Serbian government the opportunity to show in the next few days what was done in Serbia for those thousands of days, which was the responsibility of the Serbian government. There will be things that are good, and I'm sure there will be many among you who agree that a lot of good is done. There will be a lot of what is not good and a lot of what has been started and what could have been finished and what will be done for sure. It could have been finished faster if there had been a little more will than your MPs. Those who say the opposition is not in charge of making a majority in parliament are right. I totally agree with that finding. But it is not the ones who say MPs by definition must vote against the government's proposal. You're no one. When elected by citizens, he was not chosen for opposition or power, but rather elected as a MP to represent the citizens who voted for him. In order for you to represent these citizens in an adequate way, then you have to get on your job, and this is your job, doing something that is useful for these citizens and for all of Serbia. Therefore, just remember what the role of MPs are, and then there will be no problem voting for the bills you say are good, that they are reformable, that they are in line with what our goal is, which is joining the European Union, that the laws that have no "p" of politics and that can absolutely be part of what you will be proud of, not the Government, are government's proposing. Many of our proposals had a lot of interventions from both the opposition and the authorities and it was all accepted only with the desire to improve these laws and to adopt them as soon as possible. Let me tell you, there are over 50 laws waiting for adoption in parliament today; I'm not accusing anyone, it's just information. Here's what happened the other day when the agenda was adopted for this session: then, for what reasons, it came down to a whole set of laws that would contribute to our path to the European Union, which is the wish of all the parliamentary groups I see here, to be shortened, to be accelerated. Let's say we have a proposal for a law on registering traffic through a register, which is, together with the value added tax law, the best means to curb the gray economy. But since I thought you knew the subject, then I can make a link that you want, which is that I find pointless the first point of the agenda, how meaningful the second and third ones are, and that's the right of the MPs, the right of the Parliament to seek the government's report. What you haven't asked for so far, I'm sorry, it's not up to me, but if there was a request for a vote of confidence earlier, you'd have had a chance at that. Why is the first one pointless? Because you're voting on, as you called it, it's formally called about the resolution of the President of the Assembly, but you called it a Colloquial about trust. For a short time, about 10 years, I was an MP in this and in the federal parliament and I had the opportunity to get acquainted with what the President of Parliament could do. I'm no expert in knowing your Rules of Procedure, but from what I was able to quickly study, there is no great authority that can significantly affect the work of Parliament. The possibility was neither had Mrs. Micic's predecessor nor herself. What Mrs Micic was doing as Parliament Speaker and V.D. The president of Serbia can serve her honor. As deputy president of the Democratic Party, as Prime Minister, as a man who has seriously decided to deal with politics and I try to prove it every day, I have the right to say it. All she did was part of a common policy presented to citizens in the December 2000 elections, which began on January 26th and 29th 2001, which is being held for a thousand days. These thousand days, gentlemen, all together, and the people of the opposition and the people who represent the government here, you all live in a society that is drastically different from what was until October 5th. That's what we all agree on. Some will say it's better now, and some will say it's worse now. What is definitely a huge difference from that time, is that today can be discussed in parliament on the removal of parliament's president. In my day, when I was an MP, I don't remember that. I don't even remember a debate about the government's trust, I don't remember any serious debate that was held in this House until 2000. Democracy is in no way simple, nor cheap, nor easy, nor pleasant. It has its own strict rules that sometimes drive, whether citizens, part of citizens, or those who are in charge of achieving their wishes, and that's what we MPs and people in the executive government are, to have difficult moments, to disagree with something, to have a different personal opinion, but the condition for normal democracy in one country is that these differences are overcome if there is a way to work together towards a common goal. I think we have one common goal, and that is the European Union. I can talk to you for days about everything that was the goal of your work, the agenda proposed by President Natasa Micic, who you refused; I remember one day that you voted against the agenda, I don't know the current status of one party or more parties here, but they definitely voted against the agenda, which was a very unusual situation and it was a voice for the thesis -- we won't work, or we don't know or hate us or we go a little bit in the cold. It is the policy and programming of a party and I have nothing against it. It is purely political freedom, and I think that the consequences of these people looking full of energy to continue working on improving life in Serbia, but I would ask you, without even this opportunity, without the ambition to change your attitudes that are related to the first, second and third points of the agenda, for a moment, or for that to be a little longer commitment, to try to agree on what it is that is indisputable in our goals, individually. So, to gather these individual goals, what is not different, if it is the European Union, if it is a fight against crime, if it is a struggle to resolve Kosovo and Metohija issues in a way that will allow for a safe future, if we have common goals to then until the elections, which, behold, I say solemnly, will not be held in December next year, will be before that, but let's do what we can do about common goals to start doing today. It's not impossible, to remind you, we had some health problems, some kidney and spine, but we had a chance to work together. It was the Declaration of Kosovo and Metohija and we showed that we could speak, if not in the same language, in the same words, then with the same goal, and we did so. Do you think what happened afterwards helped our national interests related to Kosovo and Metohija? Whether it is or not, I'll leave it to you. Did we all lose our share of the credit that we were able to raise that position to an even higher level, do you have any objection to what the government was doing? If you have any objections on the subject, then I am at your disposal with my colleagues, members of the government; we will probably have plenty of time to talk about it next week. Today, I ask you, when this session is over, whatever happens with the Government, put on the agenda of the next session of the new agenda that will not have such big words in the titles, and that is to say, in addition to this law on registering traffic through the register, to put on the agenda a bill for the Agency for the Development of Infrastructure of the local smaouje. Twenty million euros in donations have been standing for six months and waiting to be adopted. Please put it on the agenda and vote together for the draft law on the termination of the Fund Tax Act, as this reduces the burden on the businessmen by 3%. Please put it on the agenda and then vote in favour of the amendment and addition laws of the Public Procurement Act, which improves the chances of domestic companies in all public tenders by 20%. I call upon you to be hard on the government when the second and third points come. I invite you in this discussion to gather all your energy, to find everything you have to resent the government, to mention all the affairs, to mention all eight or nine names that are mentioned, but think of something more important. I don't believe the citizens are more interested in these affairs. You've given your meaning, you've played your part, you've opened it, and now it's in public, in courts, in prosecutors to bring it to an end. Whether the government, or the ruling parties, will be punished for this in the next election, whether these people will be in jail or at least be punished by those who have been slandered, we will see. But I am sure that the citizens of Serbia today are much more interested in issues called Kosovo and Metohija, the European Union, the fight against crime and the continuation of reforms. Employment is a topic for the Serbian government, for this and next year, and this is also a topic for the Democratic Party and other DOS parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-22-0.u33532	This concludes the afternoon session. We'll continue tomorrow, Thursday, at 10.00 hours. The first registered speaker is MP Golub Rajic, with the word being sought by MP Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group, and has not arrived in turn due to a round of replicas and announcements by the president and vice president of the Republic of Serbia. After the People's Messenger Golub Rajic, the word will be given to the People's Messenger, George Mamul. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. The Secretary of the National Assembly, Mrs. Angelka Dimitrijevic, will provide information, and in order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. According to official records today's session, 109 MPs are attending today's session, or a continuation of work. Once again, I ask, since 72 MPs are currently in the hall, that the other MPs who are apparently in the building of the National Assembly come down to the hall and participate in the work of the 1st item of the agenda - debate on the resolution of the president of the National Assembly, Natasa Micic. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly and continue the work. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Natasa Milojevic, Milos Radivojčević, Petar Misic, Slobodan Tomović, Dragan Tomic, Zlata Djeric, Zivica Predojev; MPs Đura Popović, Juhas Atila, Biaci Anton and Išpanovic Istvan, as well as the MP Sreten Mitrovica, will be late for the afternoon but will arrive at the afternoon part of today's session; and, notice that yesterday after the end of the working hours from the Social Democratic Party Parliament, the National Assembly informed that they did not inform the Assembly that the MP Vlatko Sekulović had attended and that he justified his absence for yesterday. I would like to inform you that the meetings were called to be attended by the President, Vice-Presidents and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a SECURATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBJE POSITIONS Mr. MIĆić (sumption) At the end of yesterday's working day, the President of the Socialist People's Party Group Branislav Ivković asked for a word, and after that, the People's MP, Mr. Djordje Mamula, has the word.
