ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27629	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT THIRD SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION ON 1 April 2003 (first day of work) (The session began at 12.30 p.m. The chairman of Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the third session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert your identification cards into the MPs. I understand we have a quorum to work with. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Borisvoje Drakulovic. The president, vice-presidents, ministers and secretary in the government of the Republic of Serbia were invited to attend. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. 1. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to put the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, on the agenda - Proposal for a decision to adopt the Agreement of the Member States on the definition of the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 March 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 79 of the 203 MPs present did not vote for 124. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to put the National Assembly on the agenda, following an emergency procedure, a draft law on ministries, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 122, against 37, it did not vote 47 out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. 3. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to put the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, on the agenda -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 March 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, against 38, it did not vote 52 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. National MP Siniša Mitrovic, based on Article 86. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a discussion be brought together on a proposal for a decision to adopt the Agreement of the Member States on the definition of the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the proposal for a law on ministries. I put to the vote the proposal of Parliamentarian Sinisha Mitrovica. For 124, against 88, 12 of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all points adopted by an emergency procedure shall be included in the agenda of the meetings in accordance with their proposal, i.e. acceptance, and the committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, shall, if they have not already done so, submit their reports or opinions to the sitting. Since we have come to the conclusion of the emergency motions, I would like to ask the MPs to come forward on the agenda of the session in general. For 125, against 92, did not vote 7, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003 as a whole. We're going to work on a set agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to bring together the debate on the proposals for acts proposed by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, and before the opening of a joint search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that the time is allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to hand over the lists of MPs with the order declared for the word. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE ACCOMMODATION OF THE MEMBER STATES ON DEFINIFICATION OF THE FINAL STATUS OF THE ORGANISATION AND ORGANISATION REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 15. LAWS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL INSTITUTION OF THE STATE COMMUNITY OF SERBIA AND CRNA GORA (joint principle search with the Proposal for a Law on the Ministry) Does the proposing, Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27631	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a good thing the Assembly decided to combine these two points of the agenda when setting the agenda, since both of them are without a doubt in direct correlation with one important legal-political work that we have already done. So both legal acts are in direct contact with the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and with the Law on the Implementation of the Charter. I'm going to take the liberty of reminding you, in as short a time as possible, of some findings in the order that should have been spoken of. So, when it comes to the decision to adopt an agreement between Serbia and Montenegro that should definitely define the status of the authorities referred to in Article 15. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter, then, is about an instrument which has its normative basis in Article 17 paragraph 3 of the same law. I'll remind you, namely, that both the republican and then the federal assembly, by adopting these acts, defined the fate of the former federal authorities, federal or federal authorities, in three different ways. One group of bodies in Article 13 remained, under the force of the Charter's Implementation Act itself, as a group of the Serbian Member State's authorities. I would not like to remind you, and there is certainly the most important authority of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the Federal Customs Administration, the Federal Foreign Inspectorate, etc., not to mention. The second group of organs, 30 of them, are taxed as organs that stop working; of course, I'm not saying it again, you all know about it. A large number of federal ministries, federal secretariats, federal inspectorates and federal institutions are being discussed. The law contained another clause in Article 17, which was mentioned earlier, except for the bodies listed in Article 13, so all other organs not specifically mentioned. This brings us, finally, to the authority of Article 15, where then the authors, and these congregations, have foreseen a specific way of defining their fate. There were 19 federal authorities in the group, and they were told to continue their work until their status was fixed in a definitive manner. The definition of status instrument is just mentioned in the Agreement, as referred to in Article 17(3). The Charter of Implementing Laws. Furthermore, this agreement provides that of the 19 bodies listed in Article 15, nine of them continue to work as community bodies, and the others have a different destiny, about three of the models I mentioned. Some become the authorities of a Serbian Member State, some become the authorities of Montenegro, and some stop working. This is about the result of an agreement that could be reached, and will be adopted in the same way in the Montenegrin Assembly. Let me now move on to what is also my task, which is the Ministry Act, which I also said that its proposal is largely inspired by the same reasons, so by the fact that by adopting the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Charter, we have reduced a significant number of federal affairs and powers until then, to the level of the Member States. That, of course, was the basic reason for proposing this law. I say basic, because there are some procedurals, I'll say a few words about them. The Ministry Act, although completely new, you have well noticed, contains a structure that is actually identical - no change in the number of ministries, does not even change their name, except in one case, as you have noticed, at the Ministry of Culture and Informing is changed and the name is changed and a name is given which, according to the government's assessment, is more appropriate to the ministry's position in real modern conditions. The other names remain the same. Of course, I'm not going to bother you with the tax-listing of a whole series of jobs that have been reduced from a federal level to a Member State level. Perhaps only illustrations work, to notice that in no case is insignificant, to mention, let's say, that the Ministry of Finance is now getting jobs that were, as I say, traditionally in the field of federal level, such as securities of value, customs transactions, payment traffic, foreign exchange, etc. The interior ministry takes control of the border, the security of diplomatic and consular representations, which was also traditionally at federal level; the Ministry of Justice gets the regulation of judicial procedures and the regulation of status issues of judicial functions, which was all also traditionally at the federal level; the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government gets the administrative procedure, which was in federal jurisdiction, and you remember well that all the average regulations were at federal level; the Ministry of Business and Privatisation gets the management of company status, bankruptcy, etc. In one word, de facto has no authority in the Ministry Act, and because of the changes I spoke of in his work he does not suffer certain changes. To be precise, maybe just two; I don't think the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction has any extension of the workaround and the same assessment is worth the Republic Secretariat of Law. The rest of them spread their work in greater or smaller proportions. And let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, I purposely say a detour, so we must be aware, there is a clear distinction between a detour and jurisdiction. In a maximum abstract way, it describes the social space in which an authority of the administration operates. Jurisdiction is something much more tangible, much more real. It is the exercise of power and is regulated by other, material regulations. In this sense, we have a solution that will put this assembly, and of course the congregations of Montenegro and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, ahead of a very complex process. We are one of the formulations of Article 64. Charter, which was later adopted in Article 20. The Charter's implementation law said that until then, federal laws, which remain within the framework of community affairs, continue to apply as community laws, and that those others, outside of community affairs, continue to apply as laws of the Member States, until new regulations are passed by the Member States. It's some kind of solution, but it's certainly a solution that's far from one real, elegant legislation, and it's going to require the serious and difficult work that we're about to do. In one word, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting the Bill of Ministers, we will define what is a real workaround, which is once again the new real work of our ministries and the authorities of the administration established by the Ministry Act, and on the other hand we will create an assumption of something equally important, which is for the rebalancing of the Republic budget. Just one more explanation, because I noticed there were some amendments in that direction. This law is not a codification, it is not a nomenclature of the total structure of the Republic administration. This law does not purposely mention all the bodies operating in the composition of individual ministries, but is merely a defined workaround. Therefore, only those bodies and organisations acting in the composition of the ministries were mentioned, which were established by the Ministry Act, and not by other material regulations, since, certainly, the adoption of new material regulations expects us to also form a series of new bodies and organisations, and even an attempt by such nomenclature or qualifications would be unfounded. So much for opening up, ladies and gentlemen. In one word, on behalf of the Serbian Government, I suggest that you all support this decision, in fact the agreement and this law, because they are the expression of a realistic relationship, because they are something that creates assumptions for further attaining state functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27632	Do the rapporteurs of the committees, the Committee on Justice and the Administration and the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Do representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups want a word? People's MP Dejan Mihaylov, the DSS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27633	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in a half-empty room, obviously this issue, regardless of what separates the state, is not important to the MPs, but good. If you look at the Belgrade Agreement and this agreement ahead of us, it's two different documents. The Belgrade Agreement created something and was the basis for something to be created, and this document that we received is an agreement that is breaking up. And this document that we received and this agreement is a document of the destruction of the state community and the destruction of the few common competences that remained and the few functions that connected and what was the bridge in those times while Milosevic was in power, while Djukanovic was in Montenegro, which separated, but there were functions that connected. This agreement is tearing it apart, too. This agreement primarily goes towards Montenegro's independence and it is deeply contrary to our efforts to enter, as a comprehensive state, as an international and legal entity, from the Council of Europe in which we will be admitted, and to all other international, particularly economic institutions and other organisations, which concern not high policies, but regular daily needs. The DSS has always insisted on a common state, on strong ties, and the other MPs will also say why and how this has not happened, that all is due to a rough political agreement, to the harm of the common state. Simply, friendly and best man relations in Serbia-Montenegro have led to the fact that we no longer have a state. It turns out that they are more friendly and best man-made relationships than they should be the connections between the state and the institutions that should contribute to the construction of these and such states. With this agreement, if you look at the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, Article 15 defines precisely which federal institutions can and should remain at the federal level, and then there is one provision where it is said: But if two governments estimate that it is not necessary, we will break it up, and of course it is broken. And, of what remains at the federal level, these are: the Federal Institute for Standardisation, the Yugoslav Accreditation Body, the Federal Institute for Intellectual Property, the Federal Institute for Measures and Precious Metals, the Federal Bureau for Statistics, the Archive of Yugoslavia, the Air Force Museum, the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague and the Coordination Centre, all that Montenegrins did not care about, that they have in the Republic. They are not interested in the Yugoslav Museum, they are not interested in the Air Force Museum, the Yugoslav Archive, they have their archives. So, everything they don't care about, they leave it on the federal level, but where the money is and where the attributes of statehood are, they've taken it well! Not that they took themselves, but that we gave it to them and that we gave it to them "on the plate". The fact that it was created by the money of the entire state, the entire SRJ, we gave it back to our friends and godfathers and the rest of Montenegro, and all that to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia. Not only is this at the expense of Serbian citizens and it is contrary to the attributes of statehood, which the state union of Serbia-Montenegro should have, so that it can participate and be an equal partner in the international community, but it is the opposite of some good norms, rules of conduct. If you just take flight control, there's a division here. Well, in the world it's known that flying control is something that symbolizes the state, that it's something that only exists as one in every country, it can't be ripped! Because there's money here, because it pays very well every flight, we're going to let Montenegro go. The question is how it's going to work, but we'll see. Here it is said, above all, that they take all attributes of statehood and all financial institutions themselves. The lack of readiness in Serbia to protect the common state is another story. The Belgrade agreement was a real basis for building a state. The Constitutional Charter went a step back in building the common state, on the contrary, only made it possible to build an independent Montenegro. She gave them a lot of ingenuity and a lot of freedom to build that state. The law went one more step further, and this agreement is nothing more than the construction of an independent and independent Montenegro. With all these attributes, which are being left to Montenegro, which can also be questioned by international aviation, Serbia's smooth functioning as a state, someone gave it to Montenegro. Why is it given to Montenegro, we probably all know about it, so much is talked about and it's just too much to waste words. This agreement is harmful to the state of Serbia, it is harmful to the citizens of Serbia, it is harmful to the functioning of Serbia as a state, to the smooth functioning of air traffic and all other types of traffic, if you see what and how it will work. What's left on the federal level, I mentioned the Federal Bureau of Standardization, which is of no interest to the Montenegrins. Whether they have or do not have their standards, they absolutely don't care. The Federal Institute of Intellectual Property, the question is how many they have and whether they have some of their own republican institutions. The Federal Bureau of Measures and Precious Metals, there is no money there, so they left it at the federal level to finance itself again from Serbia's money; they are not interested, and the budget will fill 95.5% of Serbian citizens. So again, we will finance these institutions, where income is not created, which should allow for functioning. They weren't interested in going to a republican level. Why is it more important for the Federal Bureau of Standardisation or intellectual property to remain at that common level, why is this more important than flying control and single airspace?- I'm sorry. It's not more important. That's where the concession was to be made, if someone asked for it, so let's say, well, Mr. Montenegrins, you set up your Repulsion Institute for Intellectual Property. And we're going to have an alliance, we're going to have good cooperation, and, well, we're making a concession here. You start that office, but let's have the federal flight control office or the federal air inspectorate. Leave that at the level of the state community. Of course, neither did anyone offer it to them, nor did anyone from Serbia open the crisis if no agreement could be reached in the interests of Serbian citizens and in the interest of the Serbian state, we should have said -- ladies and gentlemen, Montenegrins, we are not going to make this agreement at all. If we are already members of all international institutions, particularly financial institutions, we are entering the Council of Europe, then we will act in accordance with these criteria. If it is necessary to arbitrize someone, as he did when writing the Constitutional Charter, if they came from the Venice Commission and if Javier Solana was coming, then let them come to arbitration. I am almost certain that this agreement would then be more in the interest of the Serbian and Serbian citizens, it would be better for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro than for the government of the Republic of Serbia. This agreement is disastrous and harmful, the consequences will be likely to be inconclusive in some institutions' functioning. The agreement is a process of separating Serbia-Montenegro. He will not contribute to building a common state. On the contrary, he will contribute to its degradation and will not contribute to building strong institutions. If we talk about traffic, in addition to the military, all traffic institutions, the Federal Aviation Administration and everything else were links that brought Djukanovic and Milosevic together. If they were separated by other things, this brought them together. It brought our two states together in those times. Now he doesn't even have it. We introduce completely separate systems in all areas, we have two currencies, two central banks, we have separate systems in traffic operation, energy systems. We've got everything separate. What kind of community do we want to build?- I'm sorry. Is this state union in Serbia's interest? Is it in Serbia's interest that we finance the army, property in Montenegro and everything else, to create conditions for an independent state for them and then to discuss the referendum and to say: thank you, friends and godfathers from Serbia, for allowing us to build our country. Is that the kind of agreement we need? We don't need it. The DSS MPs will not support this agreement, because we are deeply convinced that it is harmful for Serbian citizens, for the future of the state community and its construction and we will be against it. We will try to change it after an early election, when the government in Serbia changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27634	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? He has the word MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27635	Dear Presidency, MPs, Mr Minister, since a united debate is being held on two points of the agenda, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on both agenda points. First of all, the agreement. I'll try to be brief and clear. First, this agreement shows that Article 15. One of the members of the Law in addition to Articles 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, actually shows the essence of the Constitutional Charter and the accompanying law of the so-called state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I purposely say - the so-called state communities, because it shows that it is not a common state, but a two-state community, which should complete the process of rounding up its independence within three years. It is paradoxical but true that the Constitutional Charter, by following the law and this agreement, shows a logic that was present among some of the members of the international community that we need to separate and divide, so that they will reportedly meet again in the future, i.e. They're teaming up. It is a logic present in these areas of the 1990s, and it seems to have finally been with the Constitutional Charter, following the law, and this agreement has been brought to an end. Secondly, this agreement shows that we have actually reached an agreed divorce between Serbia and Montenegro within the state community. It is precisely what Serbia, Montenegro, property and people are taking over, and not all of it. I'm going to say something about that in the draft ministry law. Exactly there it is mentioned that not all people will be taken over, that part of them will be taken over, just not said by what criteria. This Agreement shall determine what is to be put out or what no one needs, or a similar body already exists in a Member State. Third, this agreement provides for the remaining of some authorities and at this level of the state community. I'll only mention two. With regard to the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia's Coordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, I must say that although this centre exists for a long time, it has been and remains essentially outside this assembly, although significant funds are being allocated in the Republic of Serbia's budget for its work. We as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have so far not had any report on his work, based on which we could see how this Coordination Centre works, how and what the funds are spent on. A lot of people are dissatisfied with the work of the Coordination Centre, but it also appears as a representative of the state, but also as an organ representing one political option, gives support to the "Return" coalition. The question is whether and whether this Coordination Centre, and we as the National Assembly, when voting the budget, allocate significant funds to that body, bind the documents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You remember that twice we had an agreement on Kosovo and Metohija and that we brought one resolution and one declaration, and in practice something completely different is happening. The centre is obviously leading an independent policy, related to Kosovo and Metohija. Finally, on this agreement, regarding the National Council. Which is the purpose of its existence - to facilitate co-operation with the so-called The Hague Tribunal? Certainly not, because this cooperation is being watched and carried out extremely unilaterally! Only to us, even through the National Council, are the demands of the court and NATO towards the country delivered in the form of requests to deliver our citizens and the initiatives that these deliveries should speed up. Even the president of the council is now seeking to amend the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which would create conditions for the prosecution and surrender of the accused to The Hague, regardless of the time in which the indictment was brought against them, rather than for those people who are being accused to be tried in our country. Several times there have been statements by the minister of justice that the judiciary in our country has been trained to judge the people charged with war crimes. There is a complete contradiction between what one or another representative of the government says. It would be good, but that advice does not do so, if all indictees before The Hague were provided adequate legal and material assistance, in order to make the trial as fair as possible and to help the defendants. That, unfortunately, doesn't seem right now, but cooperation, if it can be called co-operation, is one-way. It's not good for our country, and the consequences of that we'll all feel for sure. When it comes to this agreement, he obviously has his own practical side, and that is the need for certain authorities and organisations to work to translate it into Serbia level, but he also extends the work of both bodies and organisations that we, members of the SPS, think are doing not only how they should not, but also work very badly. It's not acceptable for us. When it comes to the Ministry Act, I must say that as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for the second time we are discussing amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, and essentially for the third time on the Ministry Act. Now, the formal ground for the discussion is the application of the Constitutional Charter and the accompanying Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, which is why certain authorities and organisations of the former SRJ have been abolished and their powers have passed into the work of the relevant state administrations of Serbia, which is why it is necessary to pass a new law. A small amendment to the law, regarding the ministries, is also proposed. Instead of the Ministry of Culture and Public Information, it is proposed to form a ministry of culture and media. Not wanting to repeat what I mentioned earlier on the agreement, it is clear that the abolition of individual authorities, which were previously at the level of the federal state and the transfer of their businesses to Serbia level, is slowly surrounding the process of establishing Serbia's state independence. This, the Serbia-Montenegro community, remains with few jobs, which essentially constitute a community of independent states. That's not what we SPS MPs thought was supposed to be. When it comes to the proposal for a law on ministries, certainly the most important one, because it maintains its concept of work, the way it works, practically, maintains its political and working philosophy, this bill, given the minimal changes and the negative results produced by its application, shows that, according to us, the government does not have a clear and consistent concept of work and organisation of the ministry. The law isn't good. The government's results, according to SPS MPs, are poor. What do we think of the government's work, not to say again, is what we mentioned in the initiative we had put forward to vote for mistrust to the previous government. During the election of the new government two weeks ago, the SPS then listed at least 20 examples of poor government work, which also confirms an assessment of the law, based on which the government is working. We felt, earlier and now, that the artificial merger of individual ministries was not good or the abolition of others, that it produced more negative consequences. It turns out that some legal proposals were bad, that there was a need for them to work together here in the congregation. Some of them were government and retreated and were subject to our review again. There have been many regulations that have been passed with the power of the law, etc., which says that inside the ministries there is something wrong, as soon as such practical things happen. The bad consequence is what is seen through this ministry law, which forms a large number of agencies that practically replace the work of ministries. Then we ask one logical question - do we need the ministries and essentials. (President: People's Parliament, do you use the next 10 minutes? Yes. This is best seen when the Republic of Serbia's budget is looked at and the structure of the funds is looked at, for which they are separated. Some areas are an existing concept of government work, i.e. organization of the ministry, others completely aside. We believe that the consequences of this are large and negative both for Serbia and for citizens. The SPS has proposed again, this is our concept, as well as during the previous two discussions on the bill proposal, several amendments that we propose to create several new ministries: for the economy, youth and sport, for information. The claim to increase the number of people in the government does not stand, because, in our opinion, there are a large number of government vice-presidents who are in charge of everything, because they explain almost everything that is part of the government's work, and the question is what is really the work of their work. Instead, we think it is better to form new ministries, separate people from existing ones and focus on specific problems, i.e. Their rescue. On the way to the amendment, we have proposed the establishment of an economy ministry, as no one deals with the economy in Serbia. She has remained completely in the shadow of privatisation. It would be logical to talk about two divided ministries, at least related to privatisation, have one practical consequence -- that the existence of the ministry is being served by the duration of the Privatisation Act and that it is known that its fate is related to the fate of the law. The issue of economy is certainly not the issue of selling factories, because only domestic customers are sold as a whole. There is one alarming data: there is only 7% of the capital, which is acquired by the sale of these companies, of foreign origin, which means that there is a capital surplus within the country and without large foreign customers, which in itself is very bad. Business is certainly not the import of huge quantities of different foreign goods, nor the non-reaction regarding direct investment, and we boast of the large funds owned by banks, but the state does not take appropriate measures to get some of these funds into production, speed up production and create new jobs. We believe that no economic environment is created and that there is no protection of domestic production. In one word, domestic production is left to the harsh law of the market, and none of the countries in the world do, not even those in favour of the free market, and most of all talk about it. Economic data on the state of the economy is well-known and I don't want to repeat them, but they're really worrying. Economic data are also shown in this law, which will be the subject of our debate as the next item of the agenda, where it is seen that the social gross product is 30% smaller than planned. There must be a reason for that. The SPS believes it is good that there is a special economy ministry that would deal with the economy, because of the importance of the whole area both for Serbia and for citizens. We have suggested that a special Ministry of Information be formed. If there was a special ministry, it would probably have been passed the information law, and it's gone. There is no law, and the means of informing leads to an independent, called independent, editorial policy, in fact only follows the demands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or via the Information Bureau or directly. The media are absolutely controlled, and electronic and printed, and freedom of information and the right to information exists so that the same information can be heard on different media or read on different cells. The same political parties, except DOS, have virtually no opportunity to declare their political stance, let alone respond to the charges made. The media transmits, in practice, the judgments of the state authorities or express them on their own and does not bear any responsibility for them. Every new day in that media campaign brings a new story, an accusation or a claim, and if it practically disagrees with what was said yesterday, then so much worse for it. There is no, unfortunately, investigative journalism, there is no difference between state and call media, everyone publishes the same, no one wonders why one information was published only a few days ago, why it no longer applies, or the next day has a whole new value. All that matters is that the news, the information, it gets harder and the editors are satisfied. We felt that a special ministry of public information should be formed, which would bring the law and give full attention to this issue, given its great role in the lives of these Serbian people. The Socialist Party of Serbia has proposed to form a special ministry for youth and sport, to separate the Ministry of Education and Sports (so as to say that a new ministry for youth and sport is being formed), because we believe that adequate results have not been achieved within this existing one. There are, in fact, numerous activities that need to be done and can be done by the ministry for needs and in the interest of youth. In any case, what the ministry used to do was to build sports halls, even if it was to finish what was started; doing amateur sports, improving it, regulating the status of many sports workers, experts, improving their work, sports in general, respecting what our athletes have done in different branches. So there's a lot that can and should be the subject of the youth ministry and sport. There are other issues that are very important, and they are not covered by this ministry law. We mentioned the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, we know how it came about, and the only question is what it does, since we see that the results of its work are inadequate financial and media support it receives and. Finally, I have to mention another dimension, this is about organ takeover, i.e. The jurisdiction of the previous federal state and the takeover of employees, but not all. In the light of the proposal for this law, it is said that one number of employees and appointed persons will be taken over, not according to which number of people are concerned and by which criteria. It would be bad to follow the practice for the past two years, i.e. that the DOS party criterion should be only relevant for the reception of these people, i.e. their takeover and thus the regulation of working status. It is interesting that this ministry law has not treated the foreign policy issue, likely not to be called the so-called foreign minister of the state community. As the ministry does and as the minister steps forward, they were free to do so! So it's interesting that the government of Montenegro continued after the formation of this Council of Ministers, continued to work in the way it has worked so far with its ministry which has worked in such a way that it didn't look much at what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done, so it certainly won't do what this ministry does either. I am convinced that we will be in a position very soon to talk again about the draft of this ministry law, but with this change. In any case, retaining an existing organisation of the work of the ministries and the government of the Republic of Serbia with minimal cosmetic changes, according to the SPS, has no chance of success and will have no effect. We've submitted the amendments, but we'll see what their destiny is. From previous experience, we think DOS will retain its concept of work that is unacceptable to us and we will be against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27636	The word has a minister of state administration and local self-government, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27637	Without the intention of plowing with my colleague Dejan, I mean Mr. Michael, or colleague Obradovic, it is normal, of course, that the opposition criticises every government project, it is rational and no one can have anything against it. Of course, I suggest we move in objective, real coordinates. So when it comes to the criticism of the content of this agreement, gentlemen, let's remind ourselves of one thing that, I would say, is the basic parameter for this criticism, to take and read the Constitutional Charter. We'll see what the structure of the community's body is, and we'll see that this agreement does offer something more. That's one thing. Secondly, I highly appreciate and personally, which, of course, is completely irrelevant, and as a representative of the government, since the government is a dominant attitude that goes towards strengthening the community, I highly appreciate and such valuable attitudes that come from the ranks of the opposition. So when it's not a problem in that intensity, it's all dominant in the government then, and what the government doesn't share in relation to such attitudes, it's the way the community comes to. We don't think imposing or causing a crisis can get him anything. We tried that, and we know the results. So, what is the value of this agreement, although we can all be dissatisfied with its content together, is that the agreement, ladies and gentlemen, was brought back years later, and I remind you that for years, significantly before the DOS came to power, in Montenegro, no Federation institution or community was recognised as Montenegrin, none but the military. Now the government and the Montenegrin Assembly say they are these and their joint institutions, so after me, Djelic will be in a position to inform you that after several years Montenegro has allocated funds to pay for the functioning of some of the authorities of this community. I'm deeply convinced, gentlemen, that these funds may be small, may be insufficient, but they haven't allocated any funds in years, and they're better off than none. So that's something that's real, and you do your own assessment and I repeat, let's move in the debate in real coordinates.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27638	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not very happy that we have to consider these two proposals as a unique point today, but here I'm going to try to synthesize it, since the budget law also has something to do with both of these points of the agenda. Discussing the proposal for a decision to adopt an agreement by the Member States on defining the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro raises some fundamental issues. First, why does the National Assembly decide this, why has the Government of the Republic of Serbia not decided on it? In Article 15. The law does not say who will decide on the final status of these bodies and organisations, but it means an agreement, but which Member State authorities do not write it anywhere in the law. We are left to interpret the Law, to speculate and it would be a much smaller mistake if the government had decided on this agreement, it would not, in my opinion and in our behalf, be a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But I am saying this, first of all, because the government violated the Constitution when it gave itself the authority and the right to assume the authority of the National Assembly to decide on the confirmation of the statutes, by giving consent to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly for the adoption of the legislation on the approval of the Statute of the Council of Europe. Citing Article 90(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that the government is making decisions, regulations, laws and other law enforcement acts, but I note that it was not about law enforcement but about giving prior consent to ratification of the Statute of the Council of Europe. So the question arises whether the Serbian Government needs more National Assembly or whether the National Assembly needs such a government at all, which is slowly but certainly becoming dictatorial, because it only hides behind the Assembly when it suits it or when it is cadence to create an illusion that the institutions of the system function in the country. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: No, she needs you. ) The best evidence is that this assembly is held in a regular session, and it is called by various officials of the office of President of the Supreme Court, the State Public Prosecutor and so on. That's when the congregation doesn't need her. When deciding on something like this, which she could have decided for herself, then the Assembly needs it and let the MPs of the opposition be a little distracted, because the MPs of the congregation's majority only have a vote on legal proposals. It's obvious that this motion for a decision has already been agreed. We don't know who, in reason it doesn't say, but someone had to make a deal. Someone had to agree. Not even a government official told us who or I didn't hear. It is only clear that this proposal cannot be put on and sent to amendments, which means that the government has given us this by system - take it or leave it. We may like it, we may not like it, someone has already arranged it, the congregation majority is secure and will pass the proposal, they will certainly vote. What we're going to take or leave today, today or in the voting day, has its own price, and what's the price we're going to see when we consider the Budget Rebalancing Act, and it's going to be tomorrow, the day after tomorrow on the agenda, so we're going to see how much it costs us. A moment ago, the minister said that around 6.5% of the budget is being paid by the Republic of Montenegro i.e. Montenegro's "state" in this radical community, but as it decides in that assembly of the state community, is that equivalent to what the minister didn't tell us, but we all know. As far as point 1 is concerned, the authorities and organisations that continue to carry out operations as authorities and organisations of the state community are listed. In point 2, we are told that the Federal Hydrometeorological Institute will cease to operate, but remains a disputed point 3 which has been regulated that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro will form a directorate for civil aviation and a flight control agency within 90 days, and so far these operations, as well as operations related to flying control and the Federal Air Inspectorate, will be taken over by the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, with the consent of the Ministry of the Republic of Montenegro responsible for maritime and traffic affairs. There is no agreement, we did not get it with this act, and if someone had already agreed with someone, because we do not know if later, when this decision came into force, the agreement of the Montenegrin competent ministry would follow. Here at point 3 we see that the two governments agreed and hence the one at the beginning of the exposure that we consider this to be a job for the government, not a job for the National Assembly. Of course, we don't run away from talking about it, but it doesn't matter here about the constitutional powers of individual institutions of the system. The basic question is also raised here: first, where this agreement is, why there is no second question, the question that needs to be found in the Ministry Law, because we do not see that the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications has these responsibilities, and now the question is whether the budget can be designed on the revenue and dispensable side of the costs for these two organisations, which will temporarily, say 90 days, be within the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications of the Republic of Serbia. It was very unfortunate to prepare this act, if it was to come to the National Assembly at all, as the fall of the federal state was unfortunate and the creation of this surrogate, which we have today, which we do not know what to call. It's always going in reverse order. The Charter is first adopted, deadlines are set, they are binding, and then no one respects them, because we now have a situation that we still do not have that court of the federal state, although a 25-day deadline has expired since the election of the president, nor do we have a law on the organisation and way of working of the institutions of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Since we don't have it, I'd like to point to article 17. The Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, which is the position of Article 2 of Article 17 of the Law, states that the Council of Ministers may decide that certain services and groups of matters of the jurisdiction of the state community, which were carried out by bodies and organisations or services referred to in Article 15 of this Act, are to be taken over by the institutions of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and the law on the organisation and mode of operation of those institutions has not yet been adopted, and that we may now make such a decision, and that, for a time, in accordance with Article 17 of that law, the state community decides to take away what they have left us with this agreement. So this isn't the final solution to the status of these bodies and organizations, no matter how much the proposer wants to display it as such. As far as this motion for a decision is concerned, I would no longer, because it seems to me that we take you too seriously, given that you're doing what you're doing quite incompetently, and as far as the proposal is concerned... (President: Are you using for the next 10 minutes? )......................................................................................................... 20 minutes, I can talk that much. As far as the proposal for a law on ministries is concerned, we see that we have 19 ministries, as it has been before. However, one ministry changes its name. It's called the Ministry of Culture and Media. And there's one question: should we go here with the election of a new minister, because we didn't choose this existing culture minister as the minister of culture and the media, but rather with some other competences of this ministry. I think that there should be a Committee on Constitutional Affairs and legislation to plead on this matter, not to make any mistake in putting human beings in charge of something that he cannot perform in accordance with his abilities. Also, I don't think it's right that in two years we have a bi-zakon on the ministries and that this could have gone through changes and additions and I don't know why the government wanted to present it as a new bill. I tried to find everything in this law that wasn't in the last one. Something had to be introduced, truth be told, given that we had assumed certain powers of the ministries that had ceased to exist at the federal level, because of the adoption of the Charter and the creation of a new state community. Through this, some ministries and the government wanted to get through and something that they couldn't possibly be allowed to be in their jurisdiction. So, let's start with Article 3 of the MUP, there's something that we won't be able to figure out, why there is no longer as the responsibility of this ministry, which is to protect the country's constitutional order and security. Who's the M.O.P. gonna leave that to? We'll talk about it, of course, when we talk about it in detail, about the amendments, but that's something that's inadmissible. In Article 4, where the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance and Economy are listed, and thanks to the same moment we also had a proposal to rebalance the budget, we could see that funds were planned in the budget on the draft of the Ministry of Finance for the Tax Administration, the Public Payments Administration, deposit insurance agencies, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, but there are no responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance and Economy on these organisations, and this had to be, and that's just saying that it wasn't comprehensively preparing this text and that it wasn't entirely consistent. The Department of Justice, and that's what's most startled us, wants to take over the obligations and powers he can't possibly have. I don't know if you've paid enough attention, but Article 5 clearly states that the Department of Justice does the tasks of the state administration relating to the organisation and operation of judicial authorities and bodies for violations, criminal law, legislation on commercial offences and violations, bonding relations, collizione norms, court proceedings, amnesty, pardon, lawyers and other judicial functions. Not making the difference here between making regulations in certain areas, and what this ministry can and should be empowered to do, from jobs in those areas. There's nothing the Department of Justice can do in these matters. He can only prepare a bill on criminal proceedings, criminal law, criminal law, law of attorneyship and so on, but he does affairs in law enforcement or in courts, he can't possibly do that. Furthermore, the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government forgot that it has one important function, which is that someone has to make a population register, a single polling list. I don't know who else could do this, but this ministry. We will, by amendment, further explain the need for this to be in the jurisdiction of this ministry. You've been moaning a lot about the irregularities of that voter's list, and now for three years, no one's been taking this important, serious, state-owned job. There will be a referendum, you say, probably about the Constitution. There'll be plenty of choices, and that's for sure in the fall. It's time for us to go to that election and that referendum with the clear ballots. The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Affairs has a number of additional powers, due to the termination of the existence of certain organisations at the federal level. There is something that cannot possibly stand in the jurisdiction of this ministry or any other ministry, which is the introduction into the process of producing genetically modified soybeans. This ministry needs to regulate it. We ask ourselves, is it normal to legalize it this way, at least for the reasons of humanity, if not for some other professional reasons or for the reason of taking a particular policy in this area?- I'm sorry. Also, the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, again thanks to the fact that we were able to see the budget, that the agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, the Action Fund and the Privatisation Agency, as the authorities of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, which carry out the tasks of state administration and professional affairs in accordance with the law, had to be found here, as the responsibility of this ministry. All these new agencies you have formed for these two years are completely independent and without any control, although each of these laws states that these agencies are responsible for their work to the government of Serbia and individual ministers. Article 10 refers to the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications. Among other things, it is said, it is placed in charge of this ministry to regulate bond and property-legal relations in the areas of rail, road, river, air, postal and other telecommunication and intermodal traffic. It's something that can only be in the jurisdiction of the Republic Property Directorate, because it's state property. So many times you've mentioned donations here, we're just afraid that the donation doesn't become a permanent economic category in our economic system, which wouldn't be really good. The Ministry of Labour and Employment takes care of everyone, except those who work in state authorities, but we haven't seen from the bill who's going to take care of them, it doesn't even stand in your ministry as jurisdiction. That's what's left unclear. Especially with this, the newly formed ministry, which I say should also be elected by the new minister, which is part of the 18th Ministry of Culture and Media. We see that he performs activities in the domain of activity and foreign information institutions, foreign funds of public information, correspondence and correspondents in the Republic of Serbia, registration of foreign information institutions and providing assistance to foreign journalists and correspondents, research and analytical evaluation of the state and development of media and public relations. Be careful, the ministry will investigate and analyse the state and development of the media. I guess that's where some market laws apply, I guess the media, and I'm not talking about the media in a state of emergency, so anyone can say anything. That's where the Deputy Prime Minister comes in and says... (President: 20 minutes. )......................................................................................................... They're fascists, they're a criminogenic group, so another minister comes out and calls out individuals and political opponents to murder and so on. You can see it from the government website. It is impossible in some normal conditions to allow one ministry to investigate, analytically evaluate, prohibit, punish, and we see that it is possible, although we do not know on the basis of what regulations. Perhaps, when a new law on public information is passed again, but for now, how and on what basis are certain lists banned... (President: 21 minutes. )......................................................................................................... I end, warn, and we will discuss this after the state of emergency in Serbia has passed, and it must pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27640	The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27641	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, we have brought together the first two points of the agenda for a very simple reason -- both points of the agenda follow and regulate the legal fate of those bodies and organisations that were at the level of the SRJ and function at that level, solving their fate, both through staying at the federal level, or at the level of the community of states, and through the termination of work, or through the eventual commitment to continue to function as republican authorities. In addition to this technical character, these two acts, and how they have some direct and bring some direct benefits, both for the functioning of an administrative apparatus, through its rationalisation, and through the control of budget funds that have been allocated exclusively over the past ten years by budgetary bonds, i.e. taxpayers on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and not on the territory of Montenegro, as well as through the identification of certain mechanisms of macroeconomic policy and fiscal policy which the Republic of Serbia before this did not have, i.e., was unable to dispose of because there was sovereignty, i.e. legal subjectivity, but did not respect the factivity of the federal state in all its territory, i.e., in practice, Serbia-Montenegro functioned as a confederation or as an even more lax community, where Montenegro had, i.e.e. did not respect those regulations that were passed on the level of the Federation and had been disputed at night. It is absolutely certain that it represents an expression of the least common interest of these two Member States, i.e. an expression of what was acceptable for both the Republics. What has been a positive effect on the adoption of the Constitutional Charter is the safe definition of the indisputable international subjectivity of the community of states. So, the community of Serbia-Montenegro has become a partner to all the countries in the environment, to all European and world integration, and has been able to bid, and can bid, and will pretend to be a serious state and member, both the Council of Europe and the European Union and other associations, whose membership we advocate. What is significant is that the Constitutional Charter defined a smaller volume of jurisdiction, respectively, at the level of the community of states, than it was before, by practically keeping about 95% of the spending side in the military and diplomatic communities, i.e., those basic functions which define the character of the common state as such, therefore, the function of defence and foreign policy functions. This act is a technical act, it relies on the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, which regulates which authorities continue to function as bodies at the level of the community of states, which authorities cease to function and which bodies and organisations become republican bodies and organisations. These acts shall ensure the efficiency of the administrative apparatus. Over the past little over four months, through severance, there has been a discharge of the administrative apparatus at federal level, we've had over 10,000 employees at federal level, not counting the military, which is a huge number, which was completely irrational. So for about 3,400 employees, the administrative apparatus was reduced. It is certain that such a process will continue through this regulation. The efficiency of the functioning of the administrative apparatus has been increased, therefore, through the association of certain functions from the federal level, compatible ministries at the level of the Republic and the rounding of certain administrative processes within these ministries, and perhaps as the most important liquids, budget control, i.e. the execution of expenditure at the level of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, the expenditure of the community of states. The finance ministry and the economy of the Republic of Serbia, after 85 years, can practically enable citizens of Serbia to have insight into any currency that Serbian citizens, as taxpayers, invest in the functions of the common state, and this is one of the most important flows of the Ministry Law. Therefore, the execution of expenditure, i.e. budgetary control, is concentrated at the level of the Ministry of Finance and Economy and now Serbian citizens can finally become the full owners of what they are as taxpayers and invest in the budget of the Republic. The optimisation of property, therefore, is directly due to the cassary of the Yugoslav Army, which is unnecessary for further use, something which has been rebuilt by funds, first of all, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and which will certainly improve many of the positions on the budget, i.e. the revenue side in the republic's budget. Customs administration, which allows customs duties, or customs controls, to be concentrated at the level of the Republic, and we know what has been going on for the past ten years exactly with customs duties, what abuses were possible, precisely because the Republic of Serbia could not control fully and adequately what was happening through customs duties, i.e. through customs supervision, and thus these two strong significant elements, and macro-economic policies, but also fiscal policies, finally reside in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, reside in the Ministry of Finance and Economy, and it is certain that the Ministry of Finance and Economy and the Government find strong instruments to regulate macroeconomic policies in a better and better way. If it is true that the flowers of the future are always contained in the seeds of the present, we can say that these documents have been hit by a cornerstone, both for the future international integration of the Serbia-Montenegro state community and for the provision of household management by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the greatest benefit that citizens, through the proposal and through the Ministry Act, receive at the moment. I therefore appeal to all those MPs, namely all political parties, who advocate the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, that because of the character and nature of these acts, which define and provide for the functioning of the union of states, vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27642	Are any of the other representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the word has the People's MP Velimir Simonovic, based on the use of the rights laid down in Article 89. Rules of Procedure. If none of the other representatives or presidents come forward for a word, we'll go to the hearing after the reports. The first word will be made by MP Branislav Blazic, and then by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27643	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words about this decision. If anything had to remain as a federal function, it had to be an inspectorate and flight control, and everything that was related to air traffic. We are members of international organizations involved. I believe we'll have problems after this. They will object that they want to co-operate only with the common state. There's also a question of aircraft licenses that can fly, etc. And there will be, I believe, exceptional problems that we will have in the meantime, in the domain of air traffic. It's possible we'll get that back to the federal level later. Both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro think that there will be revenue from flying over foreign planes, which pay, of course, by international regulations does not go into government budgets. Exactly what money can be spent on - perfecting, equipment, etc. to make flight control as efficient as possible, as well as other conditions, airport, etc. Those funds will not go into budgets at all. I have a lot of contacts with people who do this work with us, whatever they've been doing in federal authorities, who've been doing it, whatever they're doing in JAT, etc. It may happen, and some votes have already been cast about it -- that Montenegro has an offer, as I have heard, that flight control over Montenegro's space will be done, for example, by an Italian service. They can offer them a lower price and then they do not use the services of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, this establishment of a directorate etc. The big question is what happens in the future. That's where Serbia had to insist that these jobs stay on the federal level, absolutely. They are equally important, even much more important than the accreditation body, for example. Traffic problems are much more important, or at least as important as these several services, which remain at the federal level. As far as the departments are concerned, I don't have any particular objections here. I would only mention that there is an impression among people who work or are managers, directors or employees of what is called industry, but in the classical sense of machine building, when I talk to the directors of certain enterprises, which are usually engineers of engineering, so I easily agree with them, that no minister in the Serbian government is too concerned with the problem of machine building. It might have been good to either form a miniature for industry or to cross the ministry, which already existed, so that it would be the ministry of industry, energy and mining, of course that a new figure would have to come to the head of the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27644	We move to a debate on the application of the word, in order of the MPs in the joint debate; the first registered speaker is the MP, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27645	By adopting these draft laws, which relate to the implementation of the constitutional statutes law, we have heard here reasons from the proposing representatives, an explanation which is written in the form of the bill. Following his presentation, which is why I asked the chairman to allow me a stenogram, to specify some things, simply results in villages being an informal group on the one hand and on the other, agreeing that this does not need the common state. But, well, we know what fate was, we know that there was a compromise, we know that the most measured was Solana, but where is your wisdom, knowledge and intelligence, where is that futuristic view of reforms, how do you highlight it?- I'm sorry. And what's most important, which is your best argument, which is that the reality of the situation imposes certain solutions. Why didn't you look at the reality of the situation when you put before this assembly a bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act? Countless times from this pay phone, Serbian radicals have said what is wrong with the current Ministry Act. You yourself have admitted that some things are not defined in the existing law. Maybe you should have separated something, maybe you should have added something to the current powers of the ministers, and then you're shitting something that has nothing to do with what you always do with this pay phone, gentlemen, you're pushing for it. Here's an example. They were full of the mouths of our people living in the inside. You just couldn't keep a man alive from you. A little bit, you mention the diaspora, the Serbian diaspora, which deserves your attention. You made a mistake when you passed the Ministry Act. That's what you admitted and you said - okay, but it's the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad. It is understood that it takes care of our people in the diaspora. Here's your chance, where did you take advantage of it? You're not, gentlemen. You know how interested you are in diaspora? As much as she helped you financially to come to power. And when you came to power, you forgot that diaspora. Let's see at this particular ministry what a need it was, if you are already for the minimum elements of the preservation of the Serbia-Montenegro common state, why double the ministries, why do you duplicate some jobs? Here's the example, the Ministry of Economic Cooperation. What do we have in common with Montenegro? The same resort called economic co-operation with abroad. If you already accept that we reduce costs, if nothing else, since you, as you can see, take great care of finances and cost cuts, why didn't you say: OK, we have this at the level of the common state, at the level of the Union of Serbia-Montenegro, now we don't need it temporarily. If it's a personal problem, specifically a minister, he can get a job. The things you do are incomprehensible. Incomprehensible that the man representing the government here says: this is cheaper for Serbia or the Alliance of Serbia-Montenegro. And exactly the next item of the agenda is denying you. The next item is rebalancing, which clearly suggests that there is now a much more expensive administration at the level of Serbia-Montenegro's alliance. Look, obviously you're not in agreement with the finance minister. Look, that proposal is more expensive now for a federal administration. What concerns me is that there are some facts here, though in the form of parole that we recognize flowers in the seed, but, dear fellow, in those shirt needles. It's not a chaff seed. It can never be a fruit seed. You cannot talk about the need for the defence ministry to exist at the level of the Serbia-Montenegro community, and in this proposal, the ministry law, look at the information provided by the MUP. It secures the border! Then what is the purpose of being an army? What, you made up something new? So how are you going to, by implementing Resolution 1244, which says, return the army and the police, then how are you going to get the army back to secure the border? You won't, because it doesn't provide for Serbia's internal borders either. If Montenegro is doing the same thing, what's the point, what's that for? You bomb the public to fight for the common market, the common customs, the common monetary system, and through these laws you propose everything! Well, make up your mind once! No one will resent you if you come out with a clear bill and clear attitudes and say: OK, gentlemen, this is a more expensive variant for Serbia, but we are prepared to submit the sacrifices, that in three years we fully define the status of Serbia. Not like this, not water, not wine. And you, Mr. Minister, I beg you if you can use your authority to deliver this stenogram to me, because I would really appreciate it!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27646	There's a word from MP Bojan Pajtic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27647	Dear colleague, I love that you quoted my botanic metaphor, but nowhere in the world does the army provide a border, always does it to the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27648	There is a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic, followed by MP Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27649	Ladies and gentlemen, in this united debate, in which there are a dozen MPs from the DOS, what we are saying and there is no meaning, especially that there is no right to amendments, so we have nothing to vote on. But the bottom line is we say a few things here anyway. The first round of this decision, which is the result of the adopted Constitutional Charter and the new state unions formed and, of course, the decision itself in terms of the obligation to define the appropriate status of bodies and organisations, which have so far been at the federal level. It's not controversial, it's logical, and something has to be solved in that sense. Here is a question which the institutions, bodies and organisations have now remained at the federal level, better said at the level of the Serbia-Montenegro state union, which is being transferred to Serbia and Montenegro level. Two organisations or bodies are already mentioned in the first position. I'd say they're bodies after all. It is the Co-ordination Centre for Cosmet and the National Council for Co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal. It's not any organization or organs. What does that mean? That means if tomorrow's council of ministers forms a commission for elemental disasters, because it snowed in May or there was a flood, then it should be declared by the Serbian Parliament and the Montenegrin Parliament to be there. That's in Article 15. If someone has defined previously in Article 15, the question is, how could he define commissions and working bodies as organs and organisations? If they are defined as organs and organisations, then a question is raised for each commission, for a city union committee or something else tomorrow, that should also be an annex in Article 15, on the basis of a statement by the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. It's completely illogical for the proper working bodies to be treated here as organs and organizations. Does this mean that your organs and organizations will last forever? This means that the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of the resolution, will exist as such. So it's completely illogical. Of course, the minister has already answered me that this is about a member of the 15th Law. We talked about this law here when it was debated in parliament. That's when we criticized it, and then we said it wasn't logical. Of course, the result today is this decision, which in itself has a problem. The second question, what did Professor Simonovic talk about, and I don't want to repeat it. Just descending at the level of the republics of civilian and air traffic control is one delicate issue that will certainly reflect, not on the economic plan, but on many other issues and many other air traffic control possibilities. Whoever does not control the overall air traffic of one country admits that it is not one country, one space, that it is not a common factor. Thus, it states that neither the army of Serbia-Montenegro has the right to control the next day. They'll probably split up, too, to control each and every one of their own skys, if the civil sector here controls its own skies. I think in that sense it was the obligations of those who were negotiating, I don't know who was negotiating, we didn't even hear that, that there was a clear way of saying what was coming, what was going on. When we're talking about what's lost and what's won, I have to say that's missing in this argument. It is necessary that MPs know what we as Serbia are taking, not only by the name of the institutions, but by the ingenuity of these institutions, by the number of employees, by the expenditures of these institutions, and by what they are planning with these institutions -- should they remain so, whether they will reintegrate, whether new institutions, which is the number, what is the number and not to talk about all these parameters and elements? So, with this explanation that these institutions, organisations or bodies are just taking over, we don't really know the essence and we don't know exactly what we're really taking over. When we say that we are taking over the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, which ceases to exist, so the state of Serbia takes over, what have we taken over -- have we taken over the Museum of History of Yugoslavia or the Museum of History of Serbia, how many people are employed there, what will happen to that museum, whether it belongs to someone or not? I only took that example, however, of any other organization or organ that way to open it here or take an example and that we as MPs know. From this decision, when we adopt it, we only know that they are no longer in charge of the state union and the Council of Ministers, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia has power over them and nothing more. We simply don't know what's going on in these institutions or where they are. It's good to know, for example, what's going on with the Hydrometeorological Institute, because there's often more to the hydrometeorological institution than the weather forecast. Those who know the area a little, know that what they would say, when the dark falls, only then is the hydrometeorological institute important to every citizen's life, not to mention a thousand things that matter in that area. It's important that we know what's going on, how many people, how, how and how the state continues to assume its obligation and care for those institutions! When it comes to the ministry law, we have so far on several occasions, when the ministry law was on the agenda, we have one request, one amendment, suggestion, proposal or whatever it is you want, and that is necessary, there have been a lot of words even in the ruling part, even in the DOS coalition, in the public, lately, when I say lately, around New Year's, then it has stopped that story, and that is the introduction of the Ministry of Sports and Youth. After all, I think the results in sports in the last year and a half talk enough about how necessary it is for this ministry to exist. When I was a minister, we were world champions in basketball, and in handball, and in volleyball and at the Olympic Games, and now, unfortunately, we lose both Bulgaria and Azerbaijan and everyone else. Whether it's my fault, Mr. Pal Shandoru, or not, it's a sad fact for you, and for me, it's positive! I wish your minister had such results today. It is necessary that we have such a minister, regardless of whether I was in opposition today, here or there. This area is very important. It's not only important for sport, it's important for the economy, it's important for a single country's overall affirmation. It is necessary to do more in the area and it is necessary to refer in the office area, to create a single ministry. These days, ten, 15, a month or more, we've talked about the Sport Act, etc. We don't have a problem with the Sports Act. We have a good sport law. Some members can change. That sport law was passed before me. We have a problem with how it's being implemented and how the state is behind sports organisations, how much it helps them. We have a major crisis in sports organizations, unfortunately. It is necessary that in this sense, not because someone from the opposition will, there will be no minister of sports from the opposition, but from the ruling part, but it is necessary to arrange and open the ministry for youth and sport. I think it would be a good idea, before you vote, to discuss it again at the government and the DOS Coalition and to resolve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27650	This concludes our work in the morning. At the request of the DSS parliamentary group, there has been a change in order, so the afternoon section begins MP Bojana Aleksic, followed by MP Branislav Blazic. The session of the Legislative Committee will be held today at 1400 hours on the ground floor. [[After break - 15.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Please determine if there is a quorum for work. Put your cards in the MPs, please. I find that we have a quorum to work on and continue in order of the MPs, according to the application for a word, in a joint debate on the proposal for a decision on the adoption of the agreement and the proposal for a law on ministries. The word has a folk MP Bojana Aleksic, followed by MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27652	As well known, the Democratic Party of Serbia has supported the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, just as the Belgrade Agreement supported and has been pushing for the survival of the Serbia-Montenegro common state since the beginning. The survival of the Serbia-Montenegro common state, but in the right sense of that word, in terms of creating a real modern, European, democratic state that will become an integral part of a large European family and on an equal principle. Unfortunately, as we go from the Belgrade Agreement to today and the documents that have been adopted in the meantime, this common state has become more and more melted and of its essence we have today only form, which is, above all, the merit of one and the other republican governments who, in fact, did not sincerely want the survival of that state, but were under the pressure of the international community to preserve what kind of state it is, and in fact, only the shell remains, while all the important institutions have gone to the republics. What we have in front of us today, this proposal for an agreement is exactly the best proof of my claims. All that is relevant, which is left to subsequently define their status, following the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on its implementation at the federal level, has been divided by all the relevant institutions, all those institutions where there is some money or opportunity to make some profit, have gone to the jurisdiction of the Member States of Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. to the jurisdiction of the two republican governments and resolution ministries, while at the federal level some minor institutions that are likely to die slowly themselves over time. I will only remind you that the DSS was against the Constitutional Charter Act, that we had the biggest objections just when it came to the military and the distribution of military assets and that we were already pointing to members 15 and 17, as well as members leading to the disintegration of the common state. I'm a member of the 17. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter, from which the proposal for an agreement we are considering today, is very imprecise. It would be logical to expect that Article 17 says that the Council of Ministers of the Joint State will be the one to deal with these institutions under Article 15. - that he should make a proposal and then the federal assembly should define and adopt it afterwards, and possibly afterwards, it would be useful for the Member States to think and discuss it as well. But Article 17 itself says this: "The Council of Ministers may decide to take over certain services and groups of affairs from the jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro (and carried out the organisations or services listed in Articles 15 and 16 of this Law) from the institutions of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro." What does it mean? The Council of Ministers can decide? Can we take that as a recommendation? That's the only way I understand it! I'm really surprised, given that the same power at this point, that is, the same parties are in power both in the federal state and in the Member States, I really don't see why, and above all in the procedural and logical sense, it didn't go that way. The result would eventually be the same. What I will say once again is the issue of flying control that passes into the Republic's jurisdiction, and this is behind it and membership in international organisations, we all know that every normal state has its own control of flight, one is unique and that as such it is a member of various international organisations, which we will not have as a case here, that is, if flying control is in Serbia's jurisdiction, what happens to Montenegro's airspace and how it will all work together, and that is really not clear to us. The only thing that's clear is that there's a huge amount of money coming out of flying control every day, and we know how much it costs to fly a plane. Besides, I'd like to say a word about the ministry law. Of course, the new information is at stake, they come from exactly this proposal, and I wouldn't comment on it now. What I don't understand is that the new information from the Ministry of Culture has virtually nothing to do with the agenda point that we are considering today, but I mean what is said to be the Ministry of Culture and Media, that is, it will now be much more serious about the issue of information. We all know that the information law is there, it should have been brought long ago, two years ago and the public and media representatives are looking forward to it, he hasn't been brought in yet, and we don't know when he will be, but at this very moment we have one situation that looks a lot like the same media situation we had before 9 March 1991. There's a lot of resemblance to that. I just want this opportunity to remind the Minister of Culture, Mr. Lecic, I'm sorry that he's not with us today, that just in one situation, in one atmosphere of media darkness, he was the man who, after trying to put in a state of emergency after the demonstrations, and according to this same law by which the state of emergency was now introduced, in the aftermath of the March 9th demonstrations, he was the one who led the "ply revolution" on the terraces, and many of us were involved at that time as oppositionists, and we all fought together for breaking that media darkness. One of the basic requirements of the Terrasian Cessom of that time, you will recall, was just to protest the abolition of congregation transfers and one of the basic achievements and compromises that, after the demonstrations, had been made, was that the sessions of the republican congregation were being re-translated. On this occasion, I would like to call Minister Lecicada to think of Branislav Lecic from Therazijska Cesm as the leaders of the "ply revolution" and to abolish the media blockade of the media darkness in which Serbia was found.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27653	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27654	First I'm going to talk about the decision that was proposed. I would not like to repeat what my predecessors have already cited as a lack of this decision, but this decision does not show what state bodies are, on behalf of the Member States, concluding this agreement. This decision is not only inaccurate, it's also wrong. The title of the decision is wrong. If something is accepted, then it means that something already exists, so this organ accepts it. Here we learn from the government's representatives that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro have agreed on something, and it has been too much for us, but not for the agreement. For an agreement, in accordance with this charter and law, it would obviously be the competent assembly of the republic of the states and perhaps it's a good thing that you put it here on the agenda, but legally - technically this should look completely different, starting with the name and beyond. Furthermore, as far as the first point of this decision is concerned, my predecessors said Article 17(2). The Law implementing the Constitutional Charter gives it the right to the Council of Ministers to decide which authorities can continue working as joint bodies. Obviously from an anti-constitutional Constitutional Charter and one Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, with many shortcomings and inaccuracies, starting with the term and meaning of certain words entirely foreign to the existing legal terminology that is in force with us and here I support one of the ministers who said two months ago that we are the right academy of science compared to Western Europe and what is being offered to us here. Point 2 should not be in this agreement, because it defines the termination of an organ. Of course, within point one, no bodies should be number eight and number nine. These are ordinary working bodies, committees, the auxiliary bodies of the former federal government. They are not formally-legal authorities of the state administration, they are neither administrative organisations nor special organisations. They rank some parallels of the Administrative Board and as such should not be in this document. I don't want to go into the details, obviously this state community is considered an NGO, so everything can go away. However, from that fact, it follows what is called the Ministry Act and the basis is found in Article 94. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I must say that this provision is very precise, she says the law regulates the organisation and jurisdiction of the ministries, the authorities of the administration in their composition and special organisations. You see, yet the detour should not be put into this law, but rather an organization and jurisdiction. When the organisation is said to be referring to the organisation structure by verticals in the ministries, and when it says jurisdiction, it is meant to be a narrowed part of the jobs that a particular ministry performs. However, it is not the biggest problem of this bill. This is inherited practice, and for 20 years a similar way is done the prescriptions governing the organisational structure of the state administration. However, what needs to be concerned is that in this bill we do not have a clear division of the authorities of the state administration, and you will agree that these are the ministries that are independent and we do not have a division into the authorities of the administration, which are part of the ministry, which perform certain tasks of the state administration and those third group are professional affairs, for which special organisations are formed. This three-stage structure of a single body has not been fully implemented in the Ministry Act and therefore the Serbian Radical Party has submitted several amendments to your concept. So it wasn't for some other concept, it was for your concept, your organisational structure, 17, 18 ministries, etc. There's one more question here. You, within your ministry or near your ministry, have an Agency for the Promotion of State Administration. It was probably their job to design that organisational structure by vertical, horizontal, and business. Another main issue, which has not been resolved to the end in this bill, which is the question of dimensions, the scope of the competence of individual authorities of the state administration. I will take, for example, the Ministry of Finance, which, according to this bill and the individual laws, where jurisdiction is being established in certain affairs, has become too bulky, is likely and ineffective because of this, probably interferes with many things that should not be involved. In contrast, there are ministries almost without jurisdiction in terms of what may be the authority of the state administration. I don't think you've worked out the principle until the end of the term, and you can't see one system here. I completely understand. It is very difficult for someone who understands the organisation of the state administration to do so in one political environment, in one political mile of 17 parties, each of them is taking their own side and you probably won't be able to solve it for long, but what the Republic of Serbia needs, if it wants to be an organised state, has to resolve the status issues of its state authorities. In this context, it would have to take a principled position, which is the authorities of the state administration, what are administrative organisations, what are special organisations. For the past two years, some changes have been made and it has to be admitted. Something that by the nature of things should be the authority of the administration of the ministry, and I will take for example only the tax administration, which by the logic of things belongs to the ministry as a special authority of the administration, and until a few years ago it was a special organisation, which it should not be. For what? Panda to this organization is the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, so we had the opportunity to have special organisations apply the administrative procedure, and they are also too professional bodies that should practically be in some subsidiary application of the general rule of administrative procedure. You haven't worked this out until the end of the draft ministry law, and it's going to be a huge shortfall for the future work of these ministries, the fact is that almost all ministries are blocked. They don't work the way it's supposed to be done. Another danger to hide, which you failed to solve. When defining the name and dimension of one state body, the scope of human rights, guaranteed freedoms must also be taken into account, where there is the possibility of State interference and, on the other hand, the efficiency of the state in the protection of human and citizen freedoms and rights. I don't think you've made a good balance here. You didn't balance, you didn't make a clear division. Of course, it can't be done with this law. This is done by individual laws where specific jurisdiction is determined, however, I do not see the system and that is the biggest problem. If one system were to be seen, then we could talk about it and dimension other state authorities and concrete laws, material provisions that go directly into certain rights. We have submitted several amendments with a request and most will likely be adopted because we are not entering your political definitions, we are not going into it at all, but we can say first of all that it is legal - technical provisions. You have to take care of these suggestions, because I can't say they're objections, you have to take care of what to define and what to define by this law. The constitution requires the organisation and jurisdiction to regulate the ministry law. That's where you should be careful. At first, you said you were giving something to do with the detour. I think that's wrong. I'm not even in favour of the fact that under this law we prescribe jurisdiction from all individual laws relating to a single ministry. That's not a good solution either! A group of jobs must be defined. An ordinary citizen when he reads the ministry law, he knows who to address. And another big remark, and that's already a really serious remark. For the past two years, our ministries have been decommissioned. The government got agencies and bureaus. That's wrong. You can't do that. It is much better for the state to have a smaller number of ministries, which should be independent and responsible for implementing that policy, than to drag it out on many sides where no one knows who is in charge, nor create conditions for the state's efficiency to normally operate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27655	The word is made by the MP Ljubisa Maravić, and after that, MP Dragan Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27656	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, today we should adopt some accompanying acts resulting from the recent adoption of the Constitutional Charter, more specifically the proposal for a decision on the adoption of an agreement by the Member States. With the full respect of other aspects listed in this decision, I would refer to two questions in my presentation and this issue of the Yugoslavia Archives and the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre. This may be because these two questions, each in their own way, are particularly sensitive, because I don't think many of the previous preconditions for their definition have been met. When it comes to the Archives of Yugoslavia, unfortunately there are opinions in the public, they are divided by whether the cultural and historical heritage of the former Yugoslavia is interesting for us in that part that is related to the current state territory, or about the territory of the previous states, such as the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia, the FNRJ, the SFRJ and the end of the SRJ. In my opinion, the archive that passes into the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia should preserve all historical buildings that represent the historical treasure and testimony of past times. I also think that the Yugoslav Archives should pay special attention to historical and cultural developments in the AP Kosovo and Metohija space. These historical artifacts best deny the true flood of the latest forgeries of our history. Among the forgeries, the most recent story of the Illyrian origin of Albanians is being launched and some of the country's state-law continuance of the current Albanians with ancient Illyria. This falsifying phraseology is now particularly supporting part of UNMIK's administration, headed by Michael Steiner. Look at the wonders, this is exactly what is happening now, as the current Evening News says, that this Albanian son-in-law and the statesman wants to transfer all the UN powers to the Ship's secular structures, and historically, the facts are quite different. Secondly, the issue of competence and obligations of the Kosovo and Metohija Co-ordination Centre, in this decision made, is not sufficiently precise, so it is looking for certain innovations. However, the international community, we must conclude, has not made it possible to return several hundred thousand exiled from Kosovo to this day, nor has it fulfilled its most important obligations under Security Council Resolution 1244. Meanwhile, there has been a transformation of our state and a change in the name of the current community of Serbia-Montenegro, which is not mentioned under that name in Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, but also because of the need to institutionalise the country's highest state interest in Metohija and Kosovo. It is precisely what makes the scene a major political offensive of the Cypriot secessionists on the declaration of independence of Kosovo, I believe that our country must engage much more in opposing this insane idea, precisely through the Kosovo and Methya Co-ordination Centre, through the various interstate contacts of the Centre's leaders, through genuine engagement in the preservation and operation of Serbian state institutions in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and very important areas for our people, such as the judiciary, education and health care. I know, it will be said that it does not stand in Security Council Resolution 1244. Security Council Resolution 1244 also includes the return of police and military to Kosovo and Metohija, the return of displaced and exiled persons. Then, illuminating the fate of the kidnapped and missing persons. The international community and before that closes its eyes. Without it, we have no life in the space of Kosovo and Methya, not only for Serbs, but also for other non-Albanian lives. In the next period, the priorities of the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre should be, and this may be the case in this decision: the return of displaced and expelled persons, the lighting of the fate of the kidnapped and missing, the restoration of Serbian sanctities, the restoration of Serbian houses and properties, the return of our security forces in accordance with Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, the improvement of the conditions of life of Kosovo Serbs and other non-Albanian populations, the formation of a republican directorate for the reconstruction of Kosovo and Metohija, we gave this through the amendment, as well as a clear submission of the current so-called so-called "Methochia". Kosovo institutions rule our state structures in Belgrade. Also, I think that some of the authorities should answer the question, why the resolution and the Declaration almost unanimously adopted by this assembly are not respected. Are we going to find out what it was signed on decentralisation in Cosmet, especially in the area of northern Kosovo and Kosovo Mitrovica. Why so far, we have never discussed a report on the work of the Coordination Centre. Finally, I would like to remind you that the SPS parliamentary group has long sought a comprehensive debate on Kosovo and Metohija. By forming a special assembly committee, which has been done, but only to be added to the new members. Once again, I would like to ask that the debate on the most important state issue be urgently placed on the agenda of the assembly session. In addition, as with the reasons for this decision listed here, it is said that this urgent procedure and the entry into force of this decision, which is written, is all necessary for their effective implementation. I hope that's how it's gonna be in the work of the organs I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27657	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Lazic. The next person to be declared is MP Goran Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27658	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to three things, and above all to the possibility of harmonisation within the Constitutional Charter, the federal state, or the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. What Mr. Michael was talking about just before me, in any case he was talking about more comprehensively, I'd focus on this part of it, on this segment of the problem. I would point out that of everything that's left, there's still hope that this principle of harmonisation will somehow work, that we can harmonize all the institutions that are imagined. After all, the DSS has largely advocated our president for a functioning Federation, not so rigid, not so rigid, but as we've shown since day one. However, as it has been lately, I fear that we are increasingly diverged in many opinions. I'll remind you, yesterday we couldn't even vote on the rules of procedure of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. Believe it or not, it simply went to the point where the rules of procedure should be voted by special parliaments. Now, look at the position we're in. To make it more and more plastic, I'm going to give you an example, which I was pretty much up against on the Security Committee, and that's one big flaw in the fact that we don't have a common police force. I stood up for something called the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to be on a federal level, not such a massive institution, more functional, which would simply oversee and coordinate the work of the republican interior ministries. Unfortunately, that didn't come to the understanding of the Committee either, obviously (Mr. Sutanovac is not here right now), nor did it come to the understanding of the federal authorities, and I will remind you, the United States did not have the Ministry of State Security until 9/11, for internal state security. After 9/11, so after everything that happened, they for the first time introduced the Ministry of State Security in their history. We cannot resolve this at a common level, so there is a paradoxical situation, that after the "trafficking" of an affair in Montenegro, which smelled like a lot of things, it grows up in a position that even the interior minister of Montenegro has asked for someone to come from the FBI to intervene, or someone from the European police. So, should we constantly be in the position of "prognostices", that someone should constantly teach us a lesson, instead of simply finding the right common language for any segment of this society, whether it's about economics, whether it's about finance (unfortunately, we don't have a common currency), whether it's about any segment of life, simply, it's about somebody giving us lessons, that they're doing some kind of harmonisation, and that we all give up on it, saying -- well, we didn't stand for it, but there's the European Union as an arbiter, it'll all work it out. I don't know what direction it's going to go in, the only thing we have to hope for is that this harmonisation is going as progressive as possible in a way that would match the interests of both the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Montenegro. What I wanted to point out as a second point, and I'm using this opportunity (unfortunately, the Deputy Prime Minister just waited for the vote to take place and it was out there, only Mr. Sabic, but quite enough for him to hear too) to say that there are two initiatives, I presented an initiative here about a year ago, and that was that no one really thought of it (also Mr. Marovic had a little talk about it, but it should be raised to a higher level) that we should take it a little more seriously on the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. Why do I say more seriously - the issue should be raised at the level of the ministry for Kosovo and Metohija. If this is already foreseen by some European tenants, I will remind you that there is a Ministry of Irish Affairs in the UK, which is back 130 years, and it is obvious that even to this day, this question has not been settled properly. This is the only way that it would have been comprehensively started and solved, and I will tell you that this problem will not be short-term, nor so quickly solved (as unfortunately, it is not a Cyprus problem after nearly 30 years), only so it could be in a comprehensive way to solve this problem, and for the sake of our living in Serbia and for the sake of Albanians living in Kosovo and Metohija, and for the benefit of all the positive European standards. As part of this, an initiative was launched on the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, which is also the establishment of a ministry that would be about as the Ministry of Migration. When I say migration, then of course I mean immigration and immigration; if I remind you that there are more than four million Serbs in the dispersion, there is enough reason why we really need to deal with one such issue seriously. After all, Professor Budimovic very often took his part in the work of the committee and he knows well after traveling abroad what the position of our diaspora is; that a latent assimilation is being carried out and that we have to keep a strict account, and at the same time, if that is the case, we need to deal with one bitter truth, which is that millions of people live in this area, after all the wars that were fought on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. That is enough reason to establish such a ministry, which will also take a comprehensive look at the whole problem, because believe it or not, donations are no longer what they were. They're simply too relaxed, the Refugee Commissioner no longer has the kind of authority or opportunity he had before, so we all have to rely on our own strengths to solve all these problems, which have already become very serious, in our own and most acceptable way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27659	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government has already said that it has technically merged these two laws, namely the agreement of the Member States on defining the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the proposal for a law on ministries. I know you like to technically merge, but I would ask you, as chairman, that I know exactly and to be informed whether Mr. Shabic Rodoljub is here as a minister or as a MP, since I see that his card is there all the time and that he is registered as a National MP, so I assume that there is also a technically joined and function of the MP and minister of local self-government. Since you in this way technically and manage to vote many laws, we also know that the vice-president of the Republic Government, Joseph Kasa, when it is necessary to give some vote, he is there in office to vote. Given that this agreement, as well as the decision on acceptance of understanding, is quite interesting, it is likely that an agreement between the two governments on the decommissioning of a common state and the best possible basis for Montenegro to be fully independent within three years. Montenegro has in this way taken absolutely all attributes of statehood, and this is what Serbian citizens need to finance. If we look at what is left, to be in the Serbia-Montenegro community, obviously what the Serbian government stands for, it is to remain the national council of the SRJ (now Serbia-Montenegro) for co-operation with the international tribunal. That's what the government is most interested in and what it stands for most. Although, this very situation associated me with the fact that during the period when many people from Montenegro came to Serbia, and took up mostly the most important functions, and these were positions, jobs in factory porters and directorial functions, so that the capital flow could be carried out freely. And in this situation right now, Serbian citizens need to finance almost everything, while Montenegrins keep their monetary system and their financial institutions to themselves, and thus they will get as far apart as possible for such a short period of time as the three-year period. As regards the very proposal for a law on ministries, it is apparent that in fact all ministries remained the same, except in Article 16. - it's the Ministry of Culture and Media, and it used to be the Ministry of Public Information. The moment the DOS came to power on October 5th, you remember that they abolished the ministry, believing it was excessive, unnecessary, even though Serbian radicals said it was absolutely impossible to function without the ministry. Later they realized the mistake, and they re-formed the Ministry of Culture and Public Information. Now, instead of opening the media to all parties, according to all people who want to express their political stance and their opinions, the Serbian government only changes the name of the ministry, so now instead of the Ministry of Culture and Public Information, we have the Ministry of Culture and Media. If it's done to people who run the ministry, given that the actor does, he doesn't have a problem dealing with one role or another, whatever the name of the ministry is. Surely you could have changed the name of some other ministries, for example in Article 13 instead of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, could have stood the Ministry of Donations and Loans; donations are already expendable yourself, and who will repay the loans, the question is which you have to answer for yourself! In Article 7, where the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, as a doctor, I must point out that our area has just been known for its healthy food. Especially in the Jablani County, it is known that people have exported lots of raspberries and blackberries, and in the last period you know that the vegetable area is also well exported to Greece and Italy. The Western market has been constantly monitoring the degree of aero-contaminants, but since none of the factories are operational, pollution is no longer available. Instead of exporting this good, quality and healthy food, the Ministry of Agriculture introduces the process of producing genetically modified production and marking genetically modified products in the traffic itself. There are genetic changes due to the bombing, due to radio radiation, and that's enough, so we don't really need genetically modified food.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27661	There's a word from MP Rajko Baralic. The next one registered for the word is National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27662	Ms. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since colleagues have already made some principle remarks, let me speak briefly about the very strange composition of the so-called Air Traffic Directorate and the Agency and the abolition of the Flight Control Board. If one country does something to the state, that's a dozen things, among which this is certainly significant. I would point to only one aspect and the lack of such a solution. A permit to fly over the territory of a country is granted by a competent authority, in this case it may happen that the military fleets of other states are overrun by parts of Serbia-Montenegro's territory and it cannot nevertheless be for the citizens of either republic or anyone else. But, of course, you think it's the right thing to do. The directorate, it comes to him as a simple collection of two administrations, which is not in charge of anything at all. That's what the other MPs were talking about. I would refer to what is said in points 5) and 7), with the waterway Bar, the Yugoslav Register of Ships Tivat, the Port Captains and the outposts remaining the authorities of the country of Montenegro. I remind you that 3,700,000 marks were made by Serbian citizens through the so-called contribution and self- contribution to building Montenegro after a catastrophic earthquake, invested in the infrastructure of the republic. As for Belgrade's waterway, which is from God but remains infrastructure, it was built by the means of this Republic and the citizens of Serbia. We are equating something here that is absolutely not equal. I also remind you that the airport in Tivat and Podgorica was built by JAT's means, that soon the Doves' Military Airport will become a civilian airport. This point 3. Decisions aren't just here! It has some very bad consequences, first of all, for the citizens of Serbia, who in an unusual way are prevented from having part of what is their republic's property or their own, being completely out of control and out of the state community's function. As far as the Ministry Act is concerned, I would always advocate that this country has a tourism ministry and that its headquarters is in Vranjska Banja. Vrnjaka Banja in 1972, Karl's Vari and Baden-Baden made millions of overnight stays. We no longer have formal, informal seas, nor do we have other tourist centres other than the Kopalnik and the spas of Serbia. It would be good if tourism had a special resort, if it hadn't been tarnished by trade and other services. It wouldn't be bad if there was a ministry of good behavior, so they wouldn't throw away people who obviously don't have that kind of behavior. In the Budget Law, just to say one sentence, not to mention that I am out of the context of the agenda, some of the positions of defence are also reduced or brought down to a level that does not provide a minimum guarantee to our country for what we mean under the defence of the territory of citizens. I support all colleagues, who said this morning that everything nobody needed from the federal state had left at the so-called federal level, and everything that was very interesting for the Republic of Montenegro, he moved to Montenegro. It deserves a special comment, it deserves a political engagement of each and every one of us. It's impossible to explain it today because of the media situation, but it needs to be explained. The formation of our so-called state and its functioning, this decision that will be discussed and adopted today, is the best evidence that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro has no perspective or has not at least the way that one number of people still expects it to be. From that so-called state of Serbia-Montenegro, practically nothing remains until the flag and coat of arms, which will be changed these days. It is clear now that this is a fierce concession to the Republic of Montenegro. We don't know what's against the service or whether it's such favors other than political services at all. It would be fairer if the Belgrade Agreement were fundamentally respected, and we also said that it did not give any particular guarantee that this state would continue to be a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27663	He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Next reported is MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the unifying of the debate on the first and second item of the agenda has denied me the partial possibility that once again, but now much more detail, I should state the position of the SRS, which apparently remained unknown to Mr. Sabic himself, although it was not his direct authority until today. However, I must remind him, as well as the parliamentary majority, that the SRS, since the adoption of so-called. The agreement to redecorate relations in the former Federation between the Serbia-Montenegro member states advocated against it, against such a way of creating, in our opinion, the quasi-state community, as well as in the opinion of the vast majority of citizens, both in Serbia and Montenegro, although it was indeed our desire for the people of Serbia and Serbia and Montenegro to be united through the functioning of the federal state, which was abolished. In our opinion, we've only produced a number of problems. It has been shown to be working on muscles already now, following the constitution of the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, first because of the problematic parliamentary majority, which is also problematic here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and because of clearly undefined relations between some (although self-censors are so-called. The constitutional charters declared that they were, so it was transferred to the Constitutional Charter) by the ministries, the Council of Ministers and ministries at the level of the republics. The second proposal for a law on ministries, however, tried to regulate it and to get you transferred and defined so-called. With the Constitutional Command of Jurisdiction, it shall be incorporated into the Proposal for this Law. However, speaking of organs and organisations and their final status, I must once again tell you that not only the SRS, but millions of Serbs living in Serbia and hundreds of thousands living in Montenegro, that absolutely unnecessary is the existence of so-called. The National Council of the SRJ for the Co-operation of Satsv. The Hague tribunal, although it is an obligation stemming from your Hague coalition and the adoption of the Co-operation Act with that anti-Serbian court. However, we stand in the view that the vast majority of Serbian citizens in this way and through the way it was defined in the Law on Co-operation with the anti-Serbian court, does not want what is best handed down by Serbia to the anti-Serbian quasi-sudic institution. (President: I warn you to return to the agenda topic. ) Mrs Micic, the subject is the decision to accept the agreement of the Member States on defining the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I was talking about point 8 of the first member of the agreement, the decision. Point 9 is the SRJ and Republika Srpska Coordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija. I am allowed by the Rules of Procedure, although the chairman warns me that I am talking about the SRJ's clear position, although we have not made an amendment to this decision, that it is unnecessary, and that this definition and the existence of the SRJ Coordination Centre is harmful, especially because those self-proclaimed representatives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are now saying that Michael Steiner is for the Serbian people persona non grata in our southern province. However, we have pointed to this long before. I remind you that we have adopted one decision here unanimously, and that is not to accept the terms of the so-called. Hekerup's constitution, which Steiner now implements and thus dissipates the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. As for the ministry law, you didn't have to, as Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic said, to pass a brand-new law for marketing purposes, you could have already made an amendment to the existing law. But since there are no assembly transfers, as the media lynch and hickey atmosphere was created, which is primarily aimed at the leaders of the Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian Radical Party in general, I already know what reports will be on central information emissions, that a law on ministries has been passed. You think the people will think that something important has been decided and that these ministries will work better. No, it won't work, because the basic thing that the Ministry of the Interior was supposed to do, the head of which was a completely incompetent man, which proved to be during the last tragic events, did not foresee what his main constitutional authority was, which is to protect our country's constitutional order. On the other hand, Mr. Mircic was right, although someone here doesn't understand, he needed an additional explanation when he said he was in the power of the Ministry of Defence to take care of the entire border belt, because that's how it stands under the Constitutional Charter. It says here: "The Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia is controlling the border crossing and the movement and stay in the border belt." So she was independent of the correction of counterpart Mircic, who, as always, was right when he spoke of the military's responsibilities, because the control of the border crossing, until now and when there was a federal interior ministry, headed by the current Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, was carried out by the Republic Ministry. As for the ministry of culture and the media, or the ministry that should have a clearer name - the Ministry of Information, it would be good, with these numbered responsibilities, to explain to us that this freedom of public words and objectivity of information will protect Branislav Lecic, when he is on the lead team of the SRS. (President: I warn you of the time allowed to exceed and on the subject. It's not about personal solutions. ) It would be good if Minister Sabic, who is Minister for Local Self-Government, told us by which law they punished media currently suspended, when the information law was abolished, and by which law such a chief and responsible editor was given notice in this general atmosphere of links and senseless lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27665	I give notice to Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, based on Article 101. Rules of Procedure, since you disobeyed my warnings. The word has a People's MP Branko Ružic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27666	Dear fellow MPs, a respected presidency, the topic dealing with the first two common agenda points is essentially related to the already adopted Constitutional Charter, which does not give way to the implementation of the work of the hope that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro will now, in some future period, move towards integration in all aspects of the state order. To call for the drive to join European integration processes, which is our country's interest, through harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's relations, and in practice to act in the direction of total disharmony and duality of two state systems, will not lead to the protection of citizens' interests, both Serbia and Montenegro's citizens. One of the consequences of this policy is today's proposal for a decision to adopt an agreement between Member States on defining the final status of bodies and organisations. As for the proposed ministry law, it does not represent any fundamental improvement, but only one in a series of cosmetic changes that are in line with the need to adapt to the frameworks of the Constitutional Charter. As an SPS MP, in principle speaking, I would like to point out the fundamental disadvantages of the proposed law. First of all, the ministry of economy and privatisation, established in the proposed way, is completely illogical and irrational. Of course, both of these elements are very important for the functioning of the state, but they cannot be merged into the scope of one ministry, for the simple reason that it is clear that the privatisation process has its beginning, as well as its end. So, he's armed with character, and subsequently, it's much more rational to have a special privatisation ministry, with a period of time closely tied to the very duration of the privatisation process. Perhaps, of course, in your opinion, the sale of the national economy, which is otherwise a synonym for your concept of privatisation, can last forever, but it's simply not possible, because our weak economy has its limits as well. As a promoter, the government makes a cardinal mistake by avoiding the establishment of a special ministry for sport and youth, and the opinion of our Socialists is that the state must take much more account of youth, the sphere of amateur sport and the attitude towards the formation of sports and youth organisations. The solution so far has not proved to be good, since the Sports Administration could not do the most banal thing on its own, which is that it has and directs funds into concrete programmes. Enlightenment is so much in the problems that the reattachment of the sport sphere only speaks of the government's negligence for youth, which as such is not even mentioned in the context of the need for the ministry to exist. At a time when you discovered after three years of age that there are so many drugs in Serbia, why not show your positive approach to solving this problem by setting up a serious sports and youth ministry, which would also have serious financial resources that would purposely be spent on curbing all social monsters, developing a healthy personality of the young population through adequate programmes from that sphere. You have demoted the sphere of information with such a legal solution, that is, the proposal to the most miserable border. The event of the term - the media, the merger with the sphere of culture only speaks of the fact that the sphere of information in a large part is viewed differently compared to the time before October 5th, when, by the way, you were able to express your political views in both electronic and written media, and even your sharp critical tones could also be placed through the so-called so-called. independent media and during the war in the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In addition, the fact that it has been three years, that the information law has not yet been passed for all of your known reasons. If you think the Serbian Government Communications Bureau is creating a virtual reality through strictly controlled media, it can do this job in the interest of all Serbian citizens, then you are making a big strategic mistake. Do not live in the belief that Serbian citizens on a political scene want to see only the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Social Democratic Party or some NGO, such as the NGO of the Women in Black, which, despite the state of emergency, have the exclusive right to share the citizens of Serbia with leaflets whose content... (President: Please return to the agenda topic. ... I'm not questioning you at all. I personally respect the representatives of all parties and organisations, however, do not think that if you have a media monopoly, you have a monopoly on the truth. The establishment of full truth and general and political consensus, as well as the correct presentation of the overall political reality in Serbia, in the public is Serbia's insatiable need, and you are making it difficult not to worry about the time after the state of emergency. The disadvantages that may be with your goodwill removed from this proposal of the Ministry Act are evident, and you are normally in the well-willed deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27667	The word has a People's MP Milan Radulovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Sreten Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27668	Dear People's MPs, today we are having a united principle debate on two Government proposals: one is a proposal for a decision, and another is a bill. For both of these documents, Mr. Sabic is in front of the government to defend and explain them, so I use myself on occasion, Mr. Minister, to ask you a few questions about one document and another. The first is on the agenda, as you know, a proposal, or a decision on the adoption of an agreement by the Member States on the definition of the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. It's interesting here, if you can tell me, why is this called an agreement? This is, I guess, the agreement that two governments made. Is it a written agreement, a oral agreement, a contract -- in which form is the agreement concluded? Secondly, does this word itself - an agreement, in a certain way, imply that an agreement has been ratified here that has been concluded by two independent states, since in the same form this document will be before the Assembly of another federal unit? In the light of the first document, you referred to Article 17(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter. But Article 17 before Article 3 has a position 2, which provides that the Council of Ministers can not only take over the institutions that are being taken over by this Decision, or move into the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia or the Republic of Montenegro, but also those that have been abolished, refurbished, reformed and put them into office. Is this a bit of a hasty application for this item 3? Was it not rational to wait for the Council of Ministers to say which of the existing federal institutions it needs, which institutions it needs, and then to consider the decision in the republic's parliament of Serbia and in Montenegro's republican parliament? I mean, I think -- and I guess I'm not lonely in that kind of thinking -- that the Council of Ministers will have to keep many of the current institutions if they want to perform their functions and communicate normally with the world. If he wants to lead foreign policy and foreign economic policy, the Council will also have to form new institutions and maybe restore some that have been abolished. Is that how we're gonna get double institutions again? Are we going to take over some institutions here, although for international traffic, the Republic does not have full capacity but a federal state, and for these international integrations and international affairs will have to form institutions in the federal parliament, so that we can get some kind of duplication of institutions and multiple costs again? I ask you these questions simply because I have the impression that the decision - no matter how simple and clear - not only did it not have to go by emergency procedure, but it came at all prematurely. The reasons for the emergency procedure have really remained unclear here. I hope you'll answer some of these questions in the final word. Another document that has been presented to our attention is the Ministry Act. That's where I'd like to ask you a few questions. Has the Government considered whether this is an optimal number of ministries, are these ministries that manage to regulate our social, economic and overall economic life in the Republic? We have heard here a very convincing statement from counterpart Dragan Lazic that it would be good for this country to have a Ministry of Migration. I don't want to repeat his argument, because there's enough reason why we have a lot of people abroad, which we expect these people are going to want to go back, which is why we're pushing for a very precise law to get their civil rights back: citizenship, right to vote, etc., so maybe it could deal with a special ministry, because it would cover the interests of 3.5 to 4 million people. On the other hand, I don't know if you might have thought that some of the sites that are logically connected, and here are the different ministries, united. Serbia, for example, had a common ministry of education and religion. Education, science, culture and faith really represent one unique system, and I don't know if the government has ever considered the possibility of all these actions being united into one ministry. I'd like to ask you one more question about this law. You explained this bill to us this morning that it was only a description of the work of individual ministries, not specific responsibilities, and so the description of each ministry begins with the same phrase - the ministry is doing the tasks of the state administration that apply, and ends with other tasks of a certain law. It's a typical formula, an epic formula that would be said, that repeats itself in all the members of this law. It seems to me that this law, however, along with the work cycle, had something to say about jurisdiction. Of course, there could not have been specific competences, but perhaps this law could have contained one or two principled provisions that would make it clear what a ministry must do within its scope and not at all. Because we have a law by which the Ministry can do anything and doesn't have to do anything. On the one hand, we have, therefore, the spirit of ethics where all the hands of the government are being choked by the initiative and the freedom of the entities participating in one system, and on the other hand we get the idea that it is the optional duties of each ministry individually. I think it's been a long time since we have a clear idea of what politicians have to do and what they can't do. We don't have laws that regulate it. We don't have a law that would logically follow this law, and it's a law about ministers. I don't know if you've thought about it in the government, that would be quite your portfolio. The Ministers' Law is necessary in this country. The Ministers' Law had the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, it had the Kingdom of Serbia, it had all the advanced states -- because the minister was no ordinary civil servant. He is a man who has enormous powers, so he must be told by law what he must do under these powers, and must be told not only what political consequences come from abuse of office or unconscious exercise of office, but also what criminal sanctions. Ministers can't only be subject to the general criminal code. It's what advanced countries know; they predict special treatment for ministers. Ministers have special jurisdiction, but they must also have special responsibility. Once we have that law, then we will be able to be much clearer and much more objective, much more right and fairer to judge the work of each ministry. If the law were to put certain restrictions on the minister, it would be firmly directed, but it would also give him autonomous powers, so that the powers would not depend on political agreements in the coalition or its party, but would be guaranteed by law. It is better that the duties and powers of the minister are guaranteed by law than that they depend on how we agreed and what we agreed. In the end, just one more question. In Article 22, you have foreseen that, within the framework of your work, all ministries will achieve international co-operation - okay, and that we understand; that they will take care of the improvement of this co-operation; that they ensure harmonisation of the rules under European Union law. It does not say here that the ministries will do what is provided for in Article 20. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter, under which ministries must comply with federal regulations, those previously passed and with laws to be passed by the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. Article 20 gave the legal primate to the Federal Parliament. It seems to me that it was necessary and to point out here - although this Article 20 predicts that the Federal Assembly will form a commission that will bring Republic laws into line. But who's she gonna do it with? He'll be working with the Republic Ministries. It wouldn't be too high if it were listed here. I hope I didn't tire you of these questions; esteeming your good will and your hard work sitting here and listening carefully to us here, I expect, if not now, then perhaps in the final word, the answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27669	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovic, and the next one declared for the word is MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27670	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a proposal for a decision on the adoption of an agreement by the Member States on the definition of the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and for the third time during our term of office, we are discussing the ministries. The first time was on the agenda of January 23, 2001, when the draft decision on amendments to the Ministry Act was on the agenda. For the second time in this assembly, we have been given to consider the proposal for a law on ministries, which, in the form of your democratic parliamentaryism, has not been discussed in principle. Here, for the third time in an urgent procedure in this Parliament under those provisions, the need to assume certain responsibilities of the former federal authorities and federal organisations in the work of the relevant authorities of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, as referred to in Article 94. The constitution of the department's jurisdiction, special organisations, regulate the law. Today, in front of this parliament, as I said, for the third time, the proposal for a law on ministries is. Here we all, as MPs, expressed our views and attitudes, and in particular the opposition's MPs, gave an assessment that the talk of the bulky ministries, which was then by the proposings, brought down the story of even more overwhelming ministries. Some hastening solutions to reform ministries, when they were found to be truly predominant through operation, were returned to the past. First of all, this applies to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Ministry of Justice -- they become separate ministries, as the merger of the two ministries has shown that work cannot be done properly within the framework of a massive justice ministry and local self-government. At the same time, the promoter saw the need to form a ministry for the protection of natural resources and the environment, which is in the spirit of the time in which we live. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is directly the right of whoever is in power to determine the government in a way that it considers the most comprehensive, but it is the same right of the opposition to critically point to any proposal, if it thinks it should be better. From that point of view (from the previous) I believe that another number of proposed ministries is glamour, and above all this refers to the Ministry of Sports Enlightenment. By joining full education from basic to university level, work cannot be fully done, especially as both sides, education and sport are of paramount importance for the development and education of children and youth. Also, I will take a critical note that all the powers and rights, which the Ministry of Relations had with Serbs outside Serbia, have not been resolved in the ministry of economic relations with abroad. Nowhere in the proposed Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad mentions a relationship that should exist between the queen and the diaspora and the relationship that should exist between the queen and our countrymen living in neighbouring countries as a national minority. The co-ordination centre of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia for Kosovo and Metohija remained to carry out the job as the authority of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. However, this parliament, and as far as I know, has not so far had the opportunity to get acquainted with the work of this Coordination Centre. What I can say is that we are not satisfied in the field, i.e. this Coordination Centre has done much to help the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija with its work. On the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which is not working today, because there is no quorum of MPs in the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, we have proposed and asked the Coordination Centre to submit a report on financial operations; however, until today the report has not been delivered. I therefore hope that this assembly, on the basis of a proposal from the Socialist Party MPs, is proposed to form a directorate to help Kosovo, to accept the amendment, and through the amendment we will explain why such a directorship is needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27671	The word is by MP Dragan Šormaz, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27672	Ladies and gentlemen of the elected and appointed MPs, I would like to say at first and repeat what several MPs have already said, and that is that it is this proposal that we have received, because in the title it says, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This proposal does not show who it is and who it has spoken to and who has made this agreement between Member States on defining the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. Law implementing Serbia-Montenegro's Constitutional Charter? You also can't see from what we got, who made the decision to retain these nine organs at all, as Minister Sabic said? You can't even see who made the decision to, say, stop the work of the Federal Hydrometeorological Institute. Otherwise, as Mr Radulovic said, (previous speaker from the DSS) Article 17(2). The Law implementing the Constitutional Charter states nicely: "The Council of Ministers may decide that certain services and groups of affairs under the jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, carried out by the authorities, organisations or services referred to in Articles 15 and 16. (and this is about Article 15) This law will be taken over by the institutions of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro." We don't even know here if the Council of Ministers has decided to hold on to maybe more than nine, and whether the Council of Ministers has decided to keep these nine bodies and organizations. The paper we've been given doesn't say anything. In all this, the fact is that the Yugoslav Archives and the Yugoslav Air Force Museum have been detained. I don't understand, if it's held at federal level, why is the Republic of Serbia now taking over, for example. in its jurisdiction and to its budget, the Museum of History of Yugoslavia. I don't see the difference between these two previous organizations and the Yugoslav Museum of History. I've noticed a lot about traffic, as some MPs have already said. Flight and air traffic control is very interesting -- of course it is also interesting for the state of Serbia. Is it interesting that no one is interested in the Yugoslav Railways Community? How on the same basis that air traffic, flight control is being taken over, and now the Yugoslav Railways Community is not being taken over? I'll tell you why. Because she's a community of Yugoslav railways and how she's in charge. Now no one wants to take the obligation, meaning neither the Government of the Republic of Serbia nor the Government of the Republic of Montenegro to deal with the problem. The Sartide will be resolved as far as I can tell, but it's not about the Sartide here, sir. It's interesting yet, and here I have one piece of paper "Repubika Serbia - Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications". Assistant Minister Major Zeljko, possibly Captain or Major Zeljko, sent one piece of paper. The man again, one request to the Council of Ministers, and apparently he didn't even know what the schedule was in the federal government, but faster -- better; that's what it's about, the grab for the ministry of some property that doesn't actually exist. He asks that it is necessary for the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take over the archive documentation, which is normally okay, there is nothing controversial. Then it goes on -- like inventory equipment, computers, official cars, etc., not knowing that the ministries in the federal government didn't even owe cars, but a special secretariat. That was obviously something to pay attention to. One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this is obviously about a quick-prepared proposal, for taking over profitable organisations or organs. What worries me more is that this agreement was made in such a hurry, we don't even know if the Council of Ministers of the State has been consulted. First of all, it is a re-emergence to the political coalition in Montenegro's DPS and SDP, helping this internal political story, their rating before the upcoming presidential elections. The DPS and the SDP continue to talk about how this state community is something that will only last two or three years, and then, my God, each one of them will go their own way. It is clear to them too, and I will remind you that the Liberal Alliance of Montenegro, as a party that was openly separatist, is openly changing its programme now. She's stopping it. It is clear to them, but I don't see why we from Serbia and some of our institutions, like the Government of the Republic of Serbia, would be involved in this whole story. The book's closed. There won't be a secession. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro is an international-legal entity that will be admitted to the Council of Europe these days. We ratified in this assembly yesterday, that is, approved and agreed to the Statute of the Council of Europe. That's why we've met our last condition. It's just that there's no way he's gonna break up in three years. We don't need to prepare for such a thing here either. Everyone's aware of that. He is also aware of that, and Mr Djukanovic is in Montenegro. To avoid losing his electoral body, abruptly, to come up with a story in the next three years, we are again sacrificing certain interests of Serbia to help Milo Djukanovic, the DPS and the SDP. Totally unnecessary. In the end, I will only comment a little on this ministry law, as the debate is united. I'll remind you, when we went to the 2000 elections as a single DOS, we promised citizens a cheaper state, a cheaper state apparatus. Now I will read you something that is related, and I think about what Mr Sabic is doing in his ministry, mainly for the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. "The government has a Ministry of State Administration and a local self-government dealing with the authority of ministries and special organisations and the system of state administration." In addition, the government has the Legislative Secretariat, which builds, monitors and improves the legal system. Furthermore, the government has a Council for State Administration to monitor and study the development of state administration and propose measures to build and improve state administration. The government has an anti-constitutional education agency that develops and proposes programmes for the improvement, efficiency and quality of the work of the state administration. The Government shall have a Committee on the Legal System and State Authorities, which shall consist of an expert team on State Administration Reform, Article 7(2). Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. All these ministries, all these secretariats, councils, committees, expert teams and agencies finance Serbian citizens on behalf of such results. The result of all of this is, of course, the next item of the agenda, which is the rebalancing, budgeting and borrowing of international financial institutions to fill the budget, not to revive our economy. These are all the reasons why the DSS parliamentary group will vote on both the first and second points against, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27673	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27674	Ladies and gentlemen, I must first say a few words about the procedure within which we have received material for this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and indeed, I must express my dissatisfaction with the fact that we have been able to get acquainted with this material, which absolutely merits the attention of all MPs and all MPs, in a minute to 12, that this is really not a good way, if we want to achieve some kind of consensus, not to say a consensus on such important issues, such as agreements by Member States on defining final status and a proposal for a law on ministries. I think it is really very important that MPs get acquainted in time with the agenda, that they have time to prepare themselves to be able to process material properly for the session, as well as to be informed in a proper way about the appointment of a session of the Republic Assembly, not that we can hear it from the media, because I did not get the call for today's session officially. Furthermore, since I have been able to get familiar with the provisions of the draft Decision on the adoption of the agreement between Member States on the definition of the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, I must say in the beginning, a bit of a joke but, in fact, in the very title of this proposal for a decision, the essence is seen, and that is the agreement of the Member States on defining the final status of organs and organisations. The final status of the authorities and organisations of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, according to what we hear from officials from Montenegro, is very clear, in two or three years, that the state union will not be the state union and the state of Montenegro, which is now under a little pressure, and a little under some of its reasons and explanations, formed and formed this state union, will go its own way. What I could see as a lawyer is that indeed for one contract, and the contract is the essence of which the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is being established, means the agreement of at least two sides, a foreign party, and again I return to the claim of Montenegrin officials -- their agreement for a limited period of time for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is only valid and only present. Therefore, this decision that we are considering today can also be adopted. Of course, it will be adopted by the parliamentary majority's decision, but as well as a number of other issues concerning the constitution and work of the Serbia-Montenegro state union's authorities will only be temporary and will not have a long-term effect. In this regard, as a proposal for a bill on ministries, again related to the constitution of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and to the transfer of competences from the federal to the republican level, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, we see the constitution of a large state-owned apparatus, but before I go into the interpretation of that state-run apparatus, I have to put out a very discriminatory member and comment on that member, which is Article 32, in which the republican law provides that the date of entry into force of this republican law ceases with the work of the Federal Customs Administration, the Federal Sanitary, Veterinary and Veterinary Inspectorate, the Federal Foreign Inspectorate and three other federal inspectors. So the nonsens is that the Republic law abolishes or regulates the termination of the work of federal inspectorates and federal authorities. I must regret to conclude that the state administration's regulation will not contribute much to raising the quality of life in Serbia-Montenegro, because indeed, despite the fact that the state's apparatus represents an important link in the functioning of the state, you will agree that the essence is not in the administration, but in the production. Today in Serbia-Montenegro, all companies are recording a decline in production, and that is what is cruelly affecting the deterioration of living conditions in our country; the fall in standards, the increase in the number of unemployed, which has drawn dangerously close to the figures of a million, and perhaps even more, and we are here for who knows which way, and how many times we will deal with the issues of state administrations, the extremity of states, the arrangement of certain trivial things, which still cannot contribute to improving living conditions in our country. So this proposed apparatus of the state administration is too bulky, but all this goes on the responsibility of the DOS majority in this parliament. The SPS won't support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27675	The word has a minister for local self-government and state administration, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27676	Just one clarification, compared to what Mr Todorovic as a nonsensus has apostrophe, so that the federal authorities stop working on the basis of republican regulations. That's just not true. We need to know the continuity of our own activities. So the Charter, then the Law on the Implementation of the Charter (Article 13).We've turned some federal authorities into republican authorities and said they'll act in accordance with the regulations, based on which they're organized, until it's replaced by republican regulations. This law is, if I'm not mistaken, the Republic law. So there's no nonsensus.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27677	Thank you. There's a word from MP Tomislav Kitanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27678	Dear colleagues, I will not talk about the first item of the agenda, regardless of what the debate on the first and second points is united; I will only talk about the second point, meaning, of the ministry's work. We had a situation before that the ministries had acted within the party state. As they worked within the party state, we all know that. So the decisions carried out by the ministries were taken at party conventions, sessions, where the directive was adopted, which was implemented by the ministries. What could not be brought into line elsewhere was in line at party sessions. There were resignations, there were severed heads, there were general state problems solved. We have a situation today to act within the party state. So what's the difference between a party state and a party state -- the difference is that we had one party that had a monopoly, and now we have more parties that, unlike one, appear as multi-head angels, who at some sessions, doS meetings, are trying to settle their petty interests. And here, and in that previous state, the interest of the people was mostly foreign. First of all, there was the interest of parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27679	Please return to the agenda, you have the exact bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27680	On this basis, the ministries were shared, so the individual party had a particular ministry. As it was cadrevirated along the horizontal line, so was the vertical line within the ministries. The main objection to the work of the ministries is that they have been transformed into party bodies. Compared to that period, one continuity of government was retained. As for the number of ministries, given the situation we are in, there was a proposal to increase the number for certain ministries and are decidently listed which. My opinion is that, if these trends continue, in addition to the existing 19 ministries, we should also introduce the Ministry of Democracy and the Ministry of Human Rights. The situation, which they found themselves in because of the transfer of power from the federal state to the republic, is such that it is an extended part of the authority of individual ministries, which brings us into a dilemma. Especially when we know that these ministries have not been able to carry out even so far's powers, and now these powers have been extended. How's he gonna do it now? It's that situation where someone didn't learn how to ride a bike and we gave him a bike. Then you know what happens, which is what used to happen to individuals that they're having a car accident with that engine. The only problem is that this hasarium will not personally affect them, but the lives of this people. As far as the ministry's work is concerned, there must be a lot of criticism, no matter what powers they had before, which have now been extended, which have not been properly executed and the question is how these extended powers will be exercised. We have the Ministry of Local Self-Government case, for example, the job of updating the voter lists failed in this period of two or three years to complete! So we had elections that were successful on two occasions, but because of unscheduled lists or perhaps even deliberately unscheduled lists, these elections were declared unsuccessful. Some of the ministries with this expansion of the detour have not only expanded the area they're dealing with, but they've taken on a completely different character. The question arises whether they have any legitimacy to deal with these matters, which are complemented. For example: The Ministry of Culture and Information now deals with additional work, which in the previous period was not in the job description, so it is normal to ask whether it is possible to keep the minister who is elected or to choose a new one. Since the number of ministries has been increased, the question is whether the 18 ministries have enough ministers or whether another one should be chosen for that 19th ministry, which was formed by this new draft ministry law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27681	He has the word of state administration minister and local self-government Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27682	Unfortunately, I don't know the name of a respected gentleman who spoke before me, but he was just doing something that only someone who was willing to publicly insult people could really do. The man from this pay phone said I didn't deliberately update the voting lists, which I was two years old for. First you need to know, then talk. The Department of State and Local Self-Government doesn't exist for a year, and I'm the minister for a little bit less. As for the update of the lists, sir, you should deal with the regulation you are referring to, so you can see that the authorities of the municipalities are responsible for updating the lists, not this ministry. It's the authority to monitor the update. If that's what you're interested in, two months ago, I sent over a million indicative information to the municipalities to check it out. Of course, that doesn't mean it's a million people to be erased, but I sent it. So much for my interest in it. These days, the administrative inspection will visit to see what the authorities are doing to update. By the way, don't let those who insist on where I really tried to do everything within the limits of objective opportunity, with a budget that I have and 14 administrative inspectors at my disposal, don't let those who insist that the number of voters must have been much smaller suddenly start to ask that number of voters to grow.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27683	There's a word from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to talk about the relationship between the ministries, special organizations, government agencies and the communications bureau. The government's Regulation on the General Secretariat and other services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which have been complemented several times by new agencies, such as the Health Promotion Agency, cultural development, energy efficiency and one change, that is, the abolition of the agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, has practically established 11 special organisations. Also one Communications Bureau and 10 agencies. The Communications Bureau is responsible for public relations and other forms of communication, and the agencies are the task force, which collects knowledge and data, process them and prepare programmes, which are important for improving the work of the public administration authorities. This is Article 1. Regulations. The agencies and the Bureau are nothing more than special cover-ups of the organization. They deal with analytical affairs and suggestions, which is a typical school feature of a special organization. The clear line combines the competences of agencies and the Bureau and the competences of the ministry and special organisations, which can be seen by comparing the competences of specific ministries and special organisations on the one hand with the competences of each agency on the other. In addition, the managers of agencies and the Bureau, or secretaries, are appointed by the Government, as well as by special organisations. I'll remind you of Article 94(4). Serbia's constitution, which says both ministries and special organisations are constitutional concepts. The difference is that special organisation managers are not elected by the Assembly as ministers, but are appointed by the government, and the law regulates the organisation and jurisdiction of the ministry, administration bodies and special organisations. The basic law, which educates special organisations, is the Ministry Act. An important law has established eight special organisations, and other special organisations have been established by some other laws. Educationing 11 essential special organisations, there the Communications Bureau is also entering, the government has seized the right of this National Assembly to have it in the process of passing laws, which would educate the Bureau and agencies, assess whether both governments and citizens need agencies and bureaus at all. In addition to unconstitutionalness, the more we pointed out, the government's actions have caused serious practical consequences. The first consequence consists of intertwining the responsibilities of ministries and special organisations on the one hand and the Bureau and agencies on the other. Another practical consequence is that it was created in some sense by a parallel government or at least a presumption of it. The third consequence is that citizens pay for work in our opinion of non-constitutional and non-productive agencies, not knowing where real power centres are located in the executive government. The DSS's objections to the education of agencies and the Communications Bureau were verbally rejected, but in practice it gave DSS rights. In November 2001, the government submitted a bill to the National Assembly on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. The agency under the same name and the same jurisdiction has already been educated, according to us, against the government's constitutional regulation. Our parliamentary group then said - if the education of the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development is constitutional, as the government claims, it is not necessary to pass the law, and if the education of that agency by regulation is unconstitutional, then all agencies should be abolished, as well as this bureau and events law them, not only by one of the agencies. The government made a parody of everything, and on 8 November 2001, it amended its anti-constitutional regulation by abolishing the agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and then the Assembly, without the DSS vote, passed the Act on the agency. I'll remind you, it was voted November 20th, 2001. So, in fact, the government gave the Democratic Party of Serbia the right. Due to excessive ownership, the government has not abolished everything, but only one educated agency. Not wanting to admit a mistake to the end, the government has entered even more difficult and has openly admitted that one and the same matter can be prescribed by the regulation, by law, as it finds appropriate. Recognising that one agency is anti-constitutional, and retaining the other 10, is contrary to the laws of logic. In addition, after some disagreements in the government, the amendment of the regulation abolished the Agency for the Development of Information and the Internet. The official explanation appears to have been written by the Democratic Party of Serbia -- the agency is being abolished because within the existing Ministry of Science, Technology and Development there is an Information and Internet Office. The government has given us the right again. As for the relations between the agencies and the Communications Bureau and the proposal for this law on ministries, I would like to say that the proposal for a law on ministries extends the competence of the Ministry of Culture and to the media (Article 18). Proposal for a Law on Ministries, thus overlapping the authority of the new Ministry of Culture and Public Information, the Communications Bureau (as shown in Article 3. Regulations) and Culture Development Agency (Article 12a). The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Furthermore, the responsibility of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government (Article 6 of this Act) directly coincides with the authority of the Agency for the Promotion of State Administration (Article 10). Regulations), as well as the Council of State Administration, as my predecessor pointed out, which is the legal working body of the government. The responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad shall be consistent with the responsibility of the Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion. Therefore, the proposal for a law on ministries indicates that the competence of the agencies working, as well as the competence of the Communications Bureau, coincides with the competences of the relevant ministries. I will remind the agencies that work, which are: for the development of culture, the improvement of state administration and the Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion. The other agencies probably didn't even start working. Probably because no one even knows what's going on in the government or what's not going on, which is the consequence of her god-awful transparency. The responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation shall be overlapped with the authority of the Agency for the Promotion of Management. The jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Affairs with the Agency for Social Welfare. The responsibility of the Ministry of Health overlaps with the responsibility of the Health Promotion Agency and the Health Council as the legal working body of the Government. The responsibilities of the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications overlap with the responsibilities of the Agency for the Promotion of River Traffic. Hence, in the transitional and final provisions, we expected the abolition of agencies and the Bureau. But that's not there. In the transitional and final provisions of the draft ministry law, there is not a single word on the abolition of agencies and communications bureaus. The government would also, following a new law on ministries, which flagrantly proves a overlap between the ministry, agency and the Bureau and the lack of education between agencies and the Bureau, wish to retain all agencies and the communications bureau and therefore, according to us, an unconstitutional state. Now, following this bill of law with the apparent duality of the agencies and the Bureau and the ministries and special organisations, the government takes a step further and openly acknowledges that one and the same matter can be prescribed by regulation and law, which, according to us, is simply unimaginable. Practical consequences remain the same. It will continue to intertwine jurisdiction. Then, the creation of a parallel government continues. Finally, citizens should continue to pay for the work of non-constitutional and non-productive agencies, as I said, not knowing where the real decision centres are located in the executive government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27685	Another registered MP, Dragan Jocic, but I don't notice he's here. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used this right, want to apply for the word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search on a proposal for a decision to adopt an agreement of the Member States on the definition of the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and a principled review of the proposal for a law on ministries. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE ACCOMMODATION OF THE MEMBER STATES ON DEFINIFICATION OF THE FINAL STATUS OF THE ORGANISATION AND ORGANISATION REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 15. LAWS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL COMMUNITY OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE (single) By the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind the Madam Chairman of Article 135(4). The Rules of Procedure, which states that "the competent committees and the Government of the National Assembly shall submit to the National Assembly a report, or opinion, not less than five days before the date of the start of the meeting of the National Assembly at which the bill is being discussed", as well as Article 143 in the act concerning amendments, that "the legislator, the committee responsible and the Government, shall be obliged to consider before the National Assembly sittings which have been tabled on the draft law and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose them to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected"; and also to Article 159. "that amendments are being declared by the legislator, the competent committees and the government." Until this moment, we have not received the government's opinion on the amendments that we have submitted to the 2nd item of the agenda, although the debate has been united. I note that the president of the National Assembly abuses the state of emergency in calling the National Assembly. The materials are delivered on Saturday, two days before the beginning of the session, and we have to amend by emergency procedure. Practically, MPs came to the session today and had to get acquainted with the agenda and deliver the amendments. The state of emergency does not apply to us, but when it comes to the government or the National Assembly and committees of the National Assembly, then the state of emergency exists. I ask you, in accordance with your powers, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and to work, you and all the working bodies of the Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to ensure that we receive a report from the Government or to terminate the session and to wait for it. In any case, the National Assembly would have to declare it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27687	You have called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, you have selectively chosen the provisions that suit you. In doing so, you mentioned Article 159(4) and did not mention points 2 and 3. Article 2 says, "If the committees in charge do not submit a report within a specified time limit, the draft law can be reviewed in the National Assembly without the committee's report." Article 3 says, "If the Government does not give an opinion on the draft law within the specified time limit, the bill will also be considered without the government's opinion." I believe, when you arrived to read Section 5, that you also read paragraphs 3 and 4, and besides, I gave notice at the beginning of the session that you would receive reports during the session and you would receive them. (Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the post: There must be a vote on it. We don't vote. You don't know the Rules of Procedure. Only the Administrative Board can give you an answer. (Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. He can't, I won't give you my word! You have received the motion for a decision made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since we have carried out a single search in the framework of the joint investigation on a proposal for a decision to adopt the Agreement of the Member States on the definition of the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the National Assembly, will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the day to vote. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the 2nd item of the agenda. (Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: "Rich of the Rules of Procedure". A new member, is it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27688	I would like to remind you that on the last working day of last week, at the previous session, I have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, Mrs Comic, who violated the dignity of the National Assembly by giving false facts concerning the speaking of the distance measure from the session of the head of the Tomislav Nikolic Parliament Club and that I have asked the Administrative Committee to declare it. In accordance with Article 96(6). The Rules of Procedure he was obliged to do so within 24 hours, it was five days, and we didn't get an answer from the Administrative Board on the benches, i.e. the opinion of the Administrative Committee. And yet I remind you, I also remind you that, on the basis of Article 28 of the National Assembly chairing meetings of the National Assembly, it should take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, and should take appropriate measures to enable the Administrative Board to do the work it has been authorised under the Rules of Procedure. I would also remind you that the final position of Article 135 is binding, that the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without the opinion of the Government, Madam Chairman, or to set a new deadline within which it is required to do so, and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not you, but MPs, and therefore you would have to put it to the vote whether we can go into discussion in details without a view of the Government or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27689	The first violation of the Rules of Procedure that you advertised, you made one mistake, the secretary went to bring evidence, you received a report from the Administrative Board, was delivered to the SRS, to the MPs... (Gardana Pop-Lazic throws out of place, but she doesn't understand. )......................................................................................................... to the parliamentary groups, a report has been delivered and the secretary will bring evidence. Secondly, you could distinguish laws that are passed in an emergency procedure, by emergency procedure, then Article 159 applies and 135 applies to regular procedures. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF MINISTRATIVES (specificities) You have received a proposal for a law on ministries submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Milorad Mirčić, Stevan Kesejić, Petar Jojić, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Rade, Dragoljub Stamenković, Zlatan Jovanovic, Slobodan Janjic, Goran Cvetanović, Natasa Jovanovic, Dragan Ljubojević, Milovan Radovanović, Joca Arsić, Dragor Hiber, together Jovan Todorovic and Ljubomir Mucic, together Zoran R. Angelović and Bora Stanimirović, together Natasha Milojevic and Olgica Kircanski, together Branko Ružić and Rajko Baralić and together Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubisa Marić and Đura Lazić. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly in the framework of a joint search has also carried out a general search on the proposal for a law on ministries, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27690	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members, on the basis of Article 137. Rules of Procedure, I suggest that the debate in particular lasts no more than three minutes, and I ask the Assembly to declare it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27691	I am putting to the vote the proposal of Parliamentarian Sinisa Mitrovica to hold the debate in detail for three minutes. For 85, against 32, the abstentions were not voted 28 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27692	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 in which we propose that Article 2 be changed and that "ministers are: Ministry of Interior; Ministry of Finance and Economy; Ministry of Justice; Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government; Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management; Ministry of Economy; Ministry of Business and Employment; Ministry of Finance and Energy; Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications; Ministry of Urbanism and Civil Engineering; Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services; Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs; Ministry of Labour and Employment; Ministry of Social Affairs; Ministry of Science, Technology and Development; Ministry of Education; Ministry of Youth and Sport; Ministry of Culture; Ministry of Information; Ministry of Health; Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment; and Ministry of Environment. With this proposal, you could practically notice that we are proposing to form a new four ministries. I'm glad you noticed, but in principle, the debate explained the reasons, or explained the president of the SPS parliamentary group, the need for separation from this composition of these ministries. It means: especially the Ministry of Privatisation and, in particular, the Ministry of Sport and Youth; in particular, the Ministry of Information (only a little), I said a special ministry from the framework of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, divided into the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Privatisation. I don't think there's any need to explain this specifically, but it's already said that it's formed, the agency has to, and that these new ministries would be more effective than the ministries that work in the joint ministries. Practically, the Ministry of Culture and how the Ministry of Media is proposed here, and especially the Ministry of Information, would make a far greater contribution to the development of IT. Many estimates have been made here that as it is not satisfactory and certain parallels have been made, and I don't want to bring them out specifically. We have earlier advocated that the special ministry be the Ministry of Local Self-Government, this ministry has been formed and we see that these jobs are far better and far more high-quality than they did in the framework of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Privatisation. This is not what we propose, of course, to satisfy all DOS parties, to fill these new ministries, but to make it more efficient, so that they can do this work better; here, three minutes and I thank you. I think the explanation was quite enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27693	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27694	Dear fellow MPs, since Mr Sabic is the only one here in front of the government and on behalf of the government, he heard today not only the objections of the SPS MPs, but also the distinguished colleagues. Professor Velimir Simonovic mentioned an example from the branch he knows and cooperates with, the best example that confirms that one of these proposals, which the Socialists have given, has its essential useful value. In fact, we have proposed that individual ministries be separated and that a special ministry be formed for business issues, especially for privatisation issues. counterpart Arsic said special Ministry of Information, Ministry of Youth and Sports. If the Ministry of Youth and Sports is something that remains objectively out of the public eye and citizens know little about it, and the issue remains objective in the second plan, the issue of economy and the issue of information is something that is important for the citizens of Serbia and what is first-hand. The fact is that the situation in Serbia's economy is very difficult, very complex. All indicators are negative. There are over a million unemployed and is being prepared, at least according to different estimates, from 300,000 to 700,000 new unemployed. Absolutely, the position of the Socialists that the government does not have a strategy when it comes to economics and that it simply leaves itself to the laws of the market to implement the cruel liberalism that may have existed in the countries of the West in the late 19th century, to do whatever the market can and what it does and what it does, of course, that historic path has passed. We believe that the issue of forming a special economy ministry is extremely important, because economics is the basis of life and is the basis of everything. Opening new jobs is hard to come by. The government would have to pay special attention to what it does. We think that this issue of economy and privatisation has turned completely into just considering privatisation issues and simply when you listen to the Minister of Justice who is talking about what, he's just talking about privatisation issues. The issue of economy almost doesn't even mention it. As for this other information, I think the way to inform the media... Here today take any newspaper and they will speak for themselves the best condition in the field of information. We don't have any law, and we think that the majority of the congregation should have proposed that law in the meantime. We think that the direct consequence of the fact that we don't have a law is such a terrible situation in the field of information. We believe that the issue of information deserves a special ministry, so for this reason we suggested that it be formed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27695	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27696	It is difficult to conduct a debate in this atmosphere, especially to propose amendments, when the atmosphere is affected by the one who is chairing this assembly. When asked by the deputy head of the parliamentary group to explain and clarify some dilemmas about the Administrative Committee, it is obvious that, perhaps just to us, the chairman responds with anger. You have no reason to be angry with any of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27697	Please stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27698	It's not our fault that you guys got into such a lot of functions, and it's all your V.D. status.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27699	You've got a word to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27700	That's what you're complaining about who pulled you out with some combination, magically. Namely, the Serbian Radical Party is proposing in the interior ministry's work, which is to be done by the Ministry to adopt in the form of amendments the protection of the country's constitutional order and security, as it is clearly preparing a new partial balance between Serbia and Montenegro, at least some basic preparations should be carried out when it comes to the work of certain ministries, so the interior ministry protects, or protects lives, personal and property security of citizens, and we suggest that it also stands to protect the constitutional order and security of the country. Secondly, the same thing about the Ministry, that at the end of the paragraph in front of the word "training" stands the words "training personnel," because that would be logical. Why just train the staff, why does it keep the Ministry from expanding its work, doing the staff training needed to do certain tasks, because the latest events have also shown that these coursers are not as reliable as workers or employees of the Ministry of the Interior. After all, you have informed us through your television that he has become a colonel, or from carpenters, so here's a chance to regulate it now in the best legal way; that, in addition to training, there will be schooling, that you may no longer be colonels, generals deserve citizens, carpenters, metals, or how best to be mentioned in your vocabulary, it's those Tishlers like "the Cheda," but not this one that's the vice president, but that one of your favorites.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-01-0.u27701	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for your attention and goodbye until tomorrow.
