ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31818	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic and Dusan Budishin. We're going to go to 5. Point of the agenda:- Proposal for a Law on the Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organs in the Procedure against the War Crimes Factors (Seten Mitrovica) to Article 12 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31819	On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12 and Article 12 of the Law on War Crimes, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that everything proposed as a solution to this bill could be implemented through normal amendments to already existing laws. It is obvious that this ensures greater influence by the executive, specifically the Ministry of Justice. We propose to be a member of the 12th. The bill is deleted, as we have proposed to delete Article 6 on systematization and internal organisation, and also Article 11, which is explained, where a special department is formed to carry out administrative-technical affairs, witness protection and damaged and conditions for the application of the procedural provisions of the law. We suggest that article 12 be deleted. It is unnecessary to form special detention units for the maintenance of detention specified in criminal proceedings for crimes against humanity and international law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31820	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) At the title of Chapter III "The Rules of Procedure" of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31821	On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13, and I propose that this member be deleted, for the simple reason that this matter is already regulated in the existing legal solution. In order to explain this in more detail, allow me to read the text of Article 13, which reads: "In the criminal proceedings against the perpetrators referred to in Article 2 of this Act special provisions on the criminal offences of organised crime (Head XXIX) of the Criminal Procedure Code apply. If the provisions of Chapter 1 of this Article are not specifically prescribed, other provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure will be applied accordingly." I don't think there's any need to apply specific provisions for criminal offences against organised crime, since the crimes of organised crime cannot, in my opinion, be brought to an equal with the criminal act against humanity of international law. That is why I propose that this member be deleted because it already regulates the application of the existing Criminal Procedure Act. Unfortunately, similar application of this regulation is also foreseen here, which suggests a tendency not only of the prosecutor's will, but also of the authorities of the MUP that are conducting the pre-criminal procedure. It's really incomprehensible that these two pieces are equating, and I don't think there's any need for Article 13. You should accept that the amendment is respected and this member is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31822	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Ljubojevic and Radojko Petrovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Ljubojevic, who submits the amendment to Article 14. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 14. Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the case of war crimes offenders, with a proposal to delete this member. It defines that unless it is possible to ensure witness presence or damage to the main search, their hearing may be conducted through a videoconferencing link. So far, we have had the opportunity to see that something like this has been used in The Hague tribunal, so to speak. The war crimes court, however, because of the international expert public's protest, even the UN tribunal has given up such a way of making statements by witnesses and injured persons, so we find it absolutely unacceptable for a member of this content to be applied to us. If it comes to the adoption of this law and such a law, unfortunately, the majority of the congregation is what it is, the majority has a goal and a plan to adopt one of these laws, we are in principle, in principle, against this law for the simple reason that all the crimes that are defined by this law are defined by the Criminal Law and can be processed, as you have the custom and you like to say, by other laws, first of all by the Criminal Law. We believe there is absolutely no need, there is no reason to pass one of these laws, and by submitting amendments to all the members of this law we wanted to take advantage of that possibility to explain the senselessness of each individual member of this law. I would return to this Article 14 that defines, namely, that the witness can make a statement without his presence. We find that inadmissible. Legal practice doesn't know and nowhere in the world has it been applied. Why should we just get ahead of ourselves in negative and bad things, be first? What a witness and a damaged person who is willing to testify through that videoconferencing link, a videoliner, if the state is willing to allow him to be personally present at the search, or at the trial, comes and personally says everything he has to say. This is brought into the law for the simple reason that we have so far had opportunities in The Hague tribunal to see countless false witnesses, people who lied facelessly and who, by their presence in the courtroom, brought themselves into an awkward situation to be exposed. If this is the case, and I am convinced that there will be an even greater number of false witnesses, falsely accusing Serbs of some alleged war crimes, very easily and easily there will be some technical disturbances and that in this way some false witness of the prosecution is executed, or saved from the unfortunate situation, to help him get away with it, to cover up and hide the lie. If he is in the eyes of the accused in the courtroom, it is certain that it will be much harder for him to lie, and even if he starts to lie, it will be much harder for him to hide the lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31824	The word has the People's MP Radojko Petric, who submits the amendment to Article 14. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31825	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 14. A bill of this law. In this article, the Government proposed that if it is not possible to ensure witness presence or damage to the main search, their hearing may be conducted through videoconferencing. So, the government predicts a special way of hearing witnesses and damaged ones. In the manner of proof in the procedure, it is intended to introduce something that is unusual, contrary to current practice and applicable regulations and, worst of all, does not provide any security to determine criminal liability. Due to the above, the SPS parliamentary group proposes that this member be deleted. At the trial, the facts need to be true. Witnessing through a video can only work out, not help determine the truth. And who can be sure there won't be mass-finding witnesses. I cannot apply any sanctions for false testimony without talking about the sense of responsibility and justice of witnesses when spoken and when faced in court, unlike testimony through videoconferencing. The position of the Socialist Party of Serbia has been clear since the beginning, that a criminal responsibility procedure should be carried out for each of our citizens where there is a reasonable suspicion that he committed war crimes. Also, determining responsibility for war crimes should not only apply to war crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia, but in any country. Therefore, the Socialist Party of Serbia's position has been clear since the beginning. We are in favour of determining responsibility for war crimes, but that the determination is carried out in a fair and fair way. The video-conferencing testimony certainly does not achieve this without returning to the conclusion on the whole of this law, which has been brought forward by the SPS MPs so far, that there was no need for this issue to be regulated by a special law. We have existing laws, primarily criminal law, according to which war crimes should be tried. There could have been an addition to that law, and there was no new law. There are no legal reasons for the adoption of this law, as special, special. It's obviously political reasons. The law is anti-constitutional because it is contrary to the existing legal system. It would be best if the motionor withdraws the bill. In the event that this law is yet to be passed, there should be no dilemma regarding the amendment submitted to Article 14. The bill is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31826	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately the minister is not here, and we are trying to convince him of our amendments that he still has time to withdraw this law from the procedure and to allow the criminal law that exists in this country, which provides for the possibility of liability for war crimes. They're not exactly listed in our Criminal Law, but they do refer to the crimes of Glava ĐVI, which this law applies to. There are a lot of similarities with The Hague tribunal in this law, as far as the proceedings are concerned. One of them is even hearing through videoconferencing, which is even abandoned there. And if the minister and the government feel that this law should be passed and if the parliamentary majority is willing to vote for this law, they should really pay attention to Article 14, whose erasure we are looking for, because there is a mounted process against any participant in the conflicts in the past decade at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, as well as the possibility of making judgments based on false testimony. It would be good for the minister to tell us, and he will probably appear during the day, which is why someone who is damaged or someone who is willing to testify cannot come to Belgrade and cannot be protected and testify against this court council. For me and for the members of the Serbian Radical Party, there is no single reason why anyone who is damaged and anyone who wants to testify does not come here and tells the court what he has to say and thus enables him who is accused to face him and then defend himself. This is all we have left to suspect that there will be countless false witnesses and we will never be able to get the public, at least in Serbia, to convince that this is not the case, that it is not false witnesses. There will always be one stain on some of the judgments that will be passed, if this law is ever passed, if we succeed in selecting this judicial council that will operate under this law. It seems to me that this is one of the key members where the government and the government's representative in parliament should imagine whether that member can survive or should withdraw the whole law. You see how service we are to do even what is not being done anywhere in the world, and perhaps not even asking of us. You saw it yesterday, arrested Thaci in Hungary at the airport, turned several phones nicely and let Thaci continue his journey to Paris. On the other hand, we are being pressured here to release our responsibilities before the International Court in The Hague of American Citizens. I am convinced that the Council of Ministers will make such a decision, although I hear on the news this morning that there are also such countries that have secretly signed the agreement, so they should not have brought that fact to their public, so that they do not remain without the financial assistance of America, which has been threatened since July 1st, or today, unless such an agreement is signed. We may not even know the real truth about it, maybe our Council of Ministers at the level of the state community doesn't make such a decision, and such an agreement is signed or may already be signed, but every secret in a short time, the truth is eventually found out, so we'll see what they've done about it. It should take a little more care of our citizens and the rights that belong to them under the Constitution and the law, and that we do not pass this kind of criminal law that puts them in an unequal position, because of these accusations, hardly anyone who can truly defend himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31828	National MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31829	Dear fellow Members of the People, I came out to support, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, the amendment of our colleague Radojko Petric, who has proposed that members of the 14th law be deleted. Unfortunately, this article 14 shows the essence of the law, what law, such as solutions. This law is a conglomerate of these solutions, not similar in the world or rarely applied, or if applied, they are also withdrawn. It is not possible to understand the content of this article when it says - if it is not possible to ensure witness presence or damage. The presence of witnesses or injured persons must be ensured in order to ensure that any process has the characteristics of a normal trial and is valid. We do not understand how it is possible to provide in another country, in another environment, or perhaps even in the same country, but in another study, that through a conference relationship, it is involved in a search, and cannot allow his physical presence at the trial itself. We have heard from our colleague, meanwhile, that even the famous, notorious, evilly known, The Hague court has given up on such solutions as our law prescribes. We are increasingly in the belief that this law is a rule of more people and everyone has inserted what suits him, but essentially this solution shows that it is a couple of excellency, one pure political law, which doesn't matter, to whom it's important to be brought order. Of course, he'll have negative consequences for us, but the point of tomorrow is to say, here's the law. We believe that this solution, that the hearing of witnesses or damaged persons can be held through a conference link, is not appropriate to the legal system, nor can it essentially confirm those words when it comes to a fair trial. For all these reasons, our colleague Petric also suggested that this member of the law be deleted, because we think that this solution is not only wrong, but there is nothing like it in the world, and we constantly refer to the experiences of others. However, these experiences of others, when they are negative for us, do not apply. Here is one that could be applied, and in that sense, the amendment of counterpart Radojko Petric should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31830	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Dragan Jocic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants are not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Lazar Marjanski and Dusan Cvetkovic submitted. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Dusan Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31831	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group Slobodan Milosevic, I have tabled an amendment to the 15th law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the war crimes offender procedure. We are asking the amendment, as a parliamentary group, to delete Article 15, because we believe that the introduction of a protected witness institute through this law is not in line with the basic principles of our criminal law. The expropriation of this article, which is in direct connection and should serve as an excuse for Article 14, we have suggested because we are confident that the introduction of this protection institute is only a postcard for The Hague tribunal. Seeking to delete this member, we want to point out once again the senselessness of these special laws, because we are not sure that in DOS kitchen there are still some special laws, let's say against the Serbian Orthodox Church, because it resented the law on education, or against the SAA, and now perhaps against the DSS, because it is no longer in love with DOS. One of our fellow MPs mentioned that up to this law for 150 years the German legislation has been a model to us and almost everything in our Criminal Law is by this example. The current bill introduces something from English law to bring the UN tribunal closer to the Hague. Even if we had put in place a criminal measure next to a protected witness in Article 15 to identify a protected witness, we would have evened out more with The Hague. That is why we from the Socialist Party of Serbia claim that this member is completely pointless in this law. In response, why does he not accept the eradication of this member, the Government has given such an explanation that a man can only cross himself, that I also use something from that arsenal that the minister often uses, but here a man must be crossed with his left hand, because it is claimed that this member is not referring to a protected witness, but to the protection of the personal witness's data. You know how we in Leskovec would interpret this interpretation and how would my Leskovci say it? It's not the neck. It's the head. Read the neck. Imagine, fellow MPs, without witnesses, who appeared from somewhere abroad or from Pristina, through a video, telling some nonsense about you and accusing you of taking part in that and that place committed a certain crime, and you don't know who's accusing you, and you know you've never been there. I guess the trial should be the right, that the accused and the witness must be seen, looked into his eyes, that his identity was known and that the accused could rightly defend himself. It is certain that based on the name and last name of the witness, everyone has a much greater opportunity to disprove the statement, because when you know exactly who it is, it is easy to find evidence that at the time when the witness is accusing you of it was not even there, but it was completely different. The question also arises -- is it not part of 202.6 million dinars, how much new rebalancing must be created in Serbia's budget for the work of the war crimes detection service, by the end of this year, intended for exactly false witnesses, if someone from the opposition is to be falsely accused, or even saved from the current government. Remember, dear colleagues, that when it comes to small environments, we in Leskovac know who he is, where and when he was every day of the war, but there must be a name, because his name can also be found in various documents and documentation, in order to disprove false testimony. At the very end, something I may not have the right to say because I am not the head of the parliamentary group, but I think my serious years are still binding on me and I am asking the chairman to allow me a few words about the dignity of this House and the dignity of the MPs. What happened last Wednesday was that the afternoon session began around 12:00 p.m. and the afternoon at 4:30 p.m., without the chairman saying a word of explanation or apology to the MPs why the session was late, it really meant the demeaning of us MPs. It has to stop for the reputation of this home. Secondly, when the chairman sees on the monitor a number from 150 to 180, and there are barely 50 MPs in the hall, I really don't understand that he's self-initiatively not calling the service to collect these cards and give the measures according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31832	I thank you for your advice. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Dragan Jocic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? Yeah. Here you go. The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 and I demand that it be deleted. After the Lustration Act, the Education Act, we have another law imposed on the side, although the minister denies it. Is the Hague tribunal not bad enough for Serbs, so we will have to judge ourselves as the West dictates, watching and enjoying how Serbian citizens take each other's heads off? This law aims to portray Serbs in the world as war criminals, which are the people you are going to judge and what is their number. Will you judge the members of the U.K. for their crimes? Why did you let them out of prison when they were already in the hands of justice? The title and termology in the bill contradicts the view that no one is guilty until proven guilty, and here unknown people are voluntarily referred to as war criminals, or perhaps a representative of the government knows which faces this applies to, or I wonder if there is some secret list of so-called. War criminals, since everyone we knew was suspected of war crimes already in The Hague, or is this law going to serve to deal with political opponents? I believe that the area of responsibility of the individuals suspected of committing criminal acts is determined in the JVI chapter of the Basic Criminal Code regarding the Authority, jurisdiction, organisations and proceedings, fully governed by the positive regulations. That is why this amendment should be adopted, and the law should be withdrawn from the procedure. This law is unnecessary because this matter is regulated by the Criminal Law of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31834	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Chapter IV "Paids and other labour-based rights" and Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31835	Since, ladies and gentlemen, it will obviously be difficult to find both the district attorney and the district court judges who will work under this law, the proposer had to provide that persons who perform their duties and tasks in the war crimes prosecutor's office have the right to a salary which cannot be less than the salary of the district attorney, or employed in the relevant affairs in the district public prosecutor's office, or greater than the triple amount of the district attorney's salary, or employed in the relevant jobs in the district public prosecutor's office. It says here that there can be no less than the salary of the district attorney, which stands only for the sake of order, and it is clear that the funds will be provided for the triple amount of salary. Paragraph 2 provides that persons who perform their duties, i.e. perform tasks and tasks in the Council for War Crimes (so-called Judges), special department (which is this administration in the court), the service (this special police service), as well as a special detention unit in prison, shall be entitled to a salary that cannot be higher than the triple the amount of salary they would have made in the function they had performed, or to the jobs they had done until then. In addition, Article 3 provides that both those persons, both the public prosecutor and judges in the judicial council, and those employed in the service and the special detention unit and the special department, will be paid by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is totally out of line with our legislation, which regulates salaries of employees in state bodies. This is about employees working in state authorities. Even if you predict this triple salary, which is outrageous and inadmissible, you should never agree to it, the government cannot be left to regulate these salaries in its own way, as she thinks. So, if this law is passed, this Article 17 can be challenged in the Constitutional Court, which I am convinced, because it favors certain employees and gives the Government the opportunity to regulate this matter, although it is our obligation, our duty, even though we have passed the Law on the salaries of employees in state authorities. Of course, the government is looking for space and that especially rewards those who work under this law, because without a lot of money and satisfaction, I doubt they'll find people who are going to do this dirty work. I once again use the opportunity this time, and unfortunately, public information means don't exactly report to the public everything being said here in Parliament, and on this law, we're in the shadow of the EPS Union strike, it's obvious, but this is the way I call the judges, I call on prosecutors, people who work at the MUP not to accept working under this law, if it's brought, because they're throwing themselves away, and there's the possibility that one day they're responding to what they've done, no matter what they've done under the law that the National Assembly has passed, because we've already had such a precedent here in this conference, when it comes to the Public Information Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31836	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31837	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17 of this Law and asked that it be deleted, given that the provision provided for by this law in Article 17 is proposed by another of the precedents in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, who is probably not aware of the motion itself, Ministry of Justice. In addition to these privileged jobs and the privileged treatment of the performers of these jobs, the salary that is triple the salary that the same function holders have so far had, means prosecutors and judges, and of course other employees. I see no reason to motivate the perpetrators in this way and thus put themselves in a privileged position, for the simple reason that it raises reasonable doubt whether they will indeed determine the facts, or whether this court will practically be reprimanded by the UN tribunal, and on the basis of some unproved facts, condemn people for a certain war crime. Also, the very nature of the law passed after two and a half years, when all criminals from Kosovo and Metohija are released from prison, also raises doubts about the well-meaning and enforceability of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31838	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31839	Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group has proposed to delete this member, because it shows by its content what is one of the characteristics of this law. This is the intention of the executive authority, in this case the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to directly or through the Ministry of Justice subjugate the judiciary to itself. In this article in paragraphs 1 and 2, we have a proposed solution to pay for war crimes employees can be three times the normal salary of the prosecutor's office, and that the issue is governed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. This shows that the executive authority will directly define the prosecution's work. Obviously, one measure will be applied here that as long as the D.A. and the D.A. are working, so much will be rewarded. There's no logical reason to launch a special war crimes prosecutor's office, but we have one chief prosecutor, we have a prosecutor on the issue of organised crime. Now we're getting a third big public prosecutor, and this solution is practically not consistent. It would be logical, if the government had already wanted to reward or reward the work and said the salary would be three times higher. Why the formulation that it can be larger to a triple amount. This means that directly from the number of criminal charges initiated, the level of pay will depend. The effect will be evaluated, and that effect will again be assessed by the government itself and to the extent of its satisfaction, or dissatisfaction will pay. This solution, proposed in the law, says that the prosecution, as well as other organisational continents, will be subject to direct control by the government, that the government will measure their impact. All that remains is for the government to decide, instead of the prosecutor, against whom certain criminal charges will be filed, or who will be charged with war crimes, and then the whole circle over this war crimes story would be closed. This member and this solution also implicates the famous Hague court, that is, Carla del Ponte, who is constantly drawing new charges from her purse. By yesterday, no one would be charged from Serbia-Montenegro's space, and then another 17-18 indictments were mentioned. And Carla del Ponte's latest statement says 30 more charges will be filed by the time the court closes. However, it does not mention explicitly Serbia-Montenegro, but it is not difficult to conclude on the basis of previous experience that we too will be in the drum. We think it's a bad solution, especially because it's objectively going to mean budget breakthroughs, projected funds. In fact, this law is accompanied by certain financial resources. It has been said that 252m dinars should be allocated from the Republika Srpska budget, but for the purposes of the prosecutor's office about 50m dinars. These funds are not set out in the budget and that the correct and legal work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be resolved first in the budget, and only then by law, but since we are used to the government doing all sorts of things, not respecting what it says, this will not be an exception. In any case, we think that this solution is not appropriate, that the D.A. will subdue directly to the executive authority, and the other organisational solutions that are here are aware of the government's control, depending on how the government appreciates that they work, they will be rewarded. We think this solution is not good, and that is why it is on behalf of the parliamentary group of colleagues Branko and suggested that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31840	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Vitomir Plužarević and Golub Rajic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 18. Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the case of war crimes offenders. The amendment provides for Article 18 of this Act to be deleted. The constitutional basis is, in fact, for us Serbian radicals and all of Serbia's honest citizens an unconstitutional basis. You promised your mentors that in Serbia, we should clear ourselves of all war crimes and thus become only aware of our responsibilities, i.e. that no more Serbians are ever going to defend his attack chest or his country. This idea has been introduced into our people by all of your activities in Serbia today. These days, you have turned away the political thought of ordinary people to take care of some kind of Chad in Serbia at the moment, and all the other concerns that are evident today should not even be commented on. I'll just give you a few examples. The harvest is in full swing, and no one is commenting on it any more, the minister has been removed and that is enough; the electricity needs to be collected and the question is whether it will be; the bread is expensive, the oil should also be collected in order. These are the problems that the government and parliament should be concerned about, not these comments that we are doing today, to meet all needs. The government today arrests all our heroes who have defended the borders and integrity of the then state. Imagine how much evil and evil these thinkers have done to us! I think of these people who came in the form of democratic, human rights, in the form of various integration associations and so on. They have broken and destroyed our country and state and now with today's power, that is, with the traitors of the Serb people, they carry out the arrests of these people. With this law they want to protect these "our" people so that they can judge them uninterrupted. The war is over and we know whose side it was caused by. And now 12 years later, we're gonna be in the next one who knows how many years we're going to have hearings, arrests, and trials and so forth. They put in a new word - processing. That word is strange and how they determined it today's power repeats it as parrots. This keeps our citizens in a certain cramp, and that cramp will not allow creative and quality thinking; what do we need this production or any creation when we make hundreds of millions of dollars for one arrest? That's why this law was passed. So we're your heads, you're our money. What happens after? Well, then your heads will go, because with your employers, anything is possible, and they won't need you anymore. They will need some new people, some new ideas and some new comments that will come from their famous globalism. This amendment of ours suggests that article 18 be deleted. We believe that judges, prosecutors and his deputy should not have benefits, as the miners and the Casters used to have, and thus be stimulated by those same enemies of ours who pay for it. Remember all these donations that put us in the perspective of debt, which we will always have to pay, if not with quality goods, to Serbian heads. Imagine these people who will judge, and they should judge themselves and judge against the conscience and the rights that their profession is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31842	Since the amendment and MPs Vitomir Plužarević and Golub Rajic were submitted to article 18 in the same text, the People's MP Golub Rajic also spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31843	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the war crimes offender procedure, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed to the National Assembly to be adopted by an emergency procedure, in front of the SPS parliamentary group on Article 18, I submitted an amendment in which I proposed that this member be deleted. All amendments to the SPS MPs provide for the removal of certain members because we are against this law and in our opinion it is against our legal system. It is inconsistencies with the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, and it is necessary first to amend the Budget Law and to provide for additional funding of 250 million dinars in the minus-designed budget, only then to form new bodies and courts, all over the backs of this troubled people, under the cover of false democracy and the courtship of the international community. Otherwise, I'm a member of 18, as well as the previous 17, it's part of where salaries and other labour-based rights are regulated. Article 18 determines that the judge in the war crimes council, the war crimes prosecutor and his deputy are entitled to an insurance internship that counts with an increase in duration, and that 12 months spent working on the war crimes council and the war crimes prosecutor accounts as a 16-month security internship. I think this should be deleted because these people have already tripled their salary by the age of 17, and this article is increasing its insurance rate by four months. This is a precedent in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which is probably not aware of itself, the Ministry of Justice, since for the privileged affairs and privileged treatment of the perpetrators of these businesses an increased insurance rate is foreseen in relation to the former, which had the same holders of functions - prosecutors and judges, and other employees. With a salary that will be up to three times higher and with an increased four-month insurance rate in a year, the government will exercise control over these people, denying their independence under the Constitution. In this way, the decommissioning of existing authorities is carried out in order to ensure their full control by the executive authority, which is unacceptable. And the essence of this law is the negation of our sovereignty, regardless of what is interpreted as being, behold, we have been given the right to judge war crimes, but probably for those of the international authorities to allow us. My amendment considers the Legislative Committee legally possible. The Justice and Administration Committee rejected him, as did the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the grounds that the Government considers that persons listed in Article 18. The bill has the right to increase the insurance standings, given the complexity of the work done against the war crimes offenders. I suggest that in the day of voting you accept this amendment and that article 18 be deleted, and the adoption of this, above all, political law in Serbia will not change anything better, but rather the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31844	Thank you. The word came from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31845	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 18, whose expropriation we are looking for, further find motives for those who should be working under this law, or for a public prosecutor, for a grand jury, for this police service, for a special detention unit, by being tried in a war crimes council, by a war crimes prosecutor and his deputy favoured in the sense that they have the right to an insurance internship that counts with an increased duration, and by having 12 months of working for a war crimes council and a war crimes prosecutor's account as 16 months's insurance internship. So it's a bit of a triple salary, if it was 1,000 marks, 500 euros (I know the minister promised 1,000 marks, but those stamps changed into euro), means 500 euros times three, that's 1,500, and more insurance costs for 16 months. We really believe that this is contrary to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which regulates who has the right to an increased insurance service. These faces aren't listed there. The special law should not do this and I am convinced, as in the previous case, that both Article 17 and Article 18 of the Constitutional Court, which would work under the Constitution and the law, is certainly not this political constitutional court operating at the will of the Serbian government, could declare unconstitutional, because here we simply violate some basic human rights provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't need any further argument, it seems to me, for those who are lawyers, and the minister of justice certainly is, and I'm convinced and he knows and because of that and he's not here in the O.R., because apart from some political speech, he couldn't professionally tell us that it's possible for these judges and public prosecutors to be rewarded this way and with salaries that are three times bigger and additional insurance. If you think there's a possibility of such a thing, if it's not against the law, if it's not against the constitution, let's be so correct after all that you've done to us in this House, at least given the working conditions, because it's really hard for us to work in these conditions, suggest a law where opposition MPs are going to increase their insurance standing by 12 months to 16 months. Believe me, at least it's a satisfaction, because here I am, and I've lost my health working with you, and I can't hear myself anymore, let alone have the opportunity to bring out or disturb any other participant.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31846	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the Head of the "Working Funds" and of the 19th Amendment, MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment by the SRS parliamentary group shows that we Serbian radicals oppose the adoption of such a law on the trial of persons for any war crimes committed. The amendment of the SRS parliamentary group itself requires that the title be above Article 19. "Working agents" and I'm a member of the 19th deleter. In view of this proposal of the law, i.e. This member implies further humiliation of the Serbian people and the Serbian state and the majority of Serbian citizens, according to what we in the SRS think, that in order to ensure the technical conditions of the work of all these services, prosecutors, greater for war crimes, special departments, special detention units, funds are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that means that all public income bonds should provide funds for the creation of material -- technical conditions and salaries for all persons working in this service. From that budget you created the conditions to recently buy the medal of Obilić, a brave Serbian hero, and to assign to your police general Sreten Lukic, who shamefully arrested Veselin Sljivancanin, whom you are handing over to The Hague tribunal. With the same funds from the same budget, you create conditions for an increase in wages, that they have three times the salary of their colleagues in the regular prosecutor's office and in regular courts, as well as benefits, for which you predict to be 12:16. You will also create technical conditions, salaries, etc. from the budget. and for the prosecutor and assistant public prosecutor, according to this bill, which, under the bill, should possess a high moral reputation. I think you in your ranks don't have a high moral reputation or think you'll find people like the former district attorney in Belgrade, Radet Terzic, or like your special prosecutor, Jovan Prijic, who is blackmailing people to make false statements. From the budget, you will also pay persons for a special detention unit and provide them with conditions. Will the special detention unit operate persons such as Dragisa Blanuša, Ace Jovanovic and others who recently made false statements regarding the visit of Cedomir Jovanovic to the Central Prison and Schiller to Zemun? You bring this bill by order of your mentors and employers. You can ask them for funds. Under this law, you will judge only pro-forms, without establishing real guilt and responsibility. To whom the Americans tell you, you will also make decisions against the face - cops, soldiers and all others - that will bother you in any way. Given that all of these services, in fact, the offices and departments of the UN tribunal, have a lot of reasons to ask them for material help. In the end, SRS MPs spoke rather of the role of America in resolving international and interstate relations in the world, their criminal role in the bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999, of the crimes they have committed, and you will here, citizens of Serbia, and according to the proposal and persons of the former SFRY, allegedly, accuse and condemn for what they most likely did not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31848	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31849	This law, which bears the title of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the case of war crimes offenders, is, in fact, a law on the prosecution of war crimes, war crimes, war crimes council, special department for performing administrative-technical affairs, special detention unit, and some rules establishing a videoconferencing link and protection of witness data and damaged, favouring those who will work under this law with an increase in wages of three times and increasing their employment. Of course, the law must provide for funds for the work of these newly established bodies. The law regulates Article 19, i.e. entitles the Ministry of Justice to provide adequate premises and all other technical conditions necessary for the effective and safe operation of the prosecution of war crimes, greater for war crimes, special departments and special detention units. So, in addition to the fact that this law for some essential reasons, including political and professional, should not exist, should not exist in our legal system, we have already said in principle that, in several cases, suspects that have committed any war crimes can be tried under the applicable Criminal Law, under the applicable Criminal Procedure Code. This law applies to these crimes. The name should not prejudge the fact that there are supposed to be a dozen war criminals in Serbia, what would do to all those who do not think well and how it suits us. Another argument against this law is that additional financial resources are needed, and not small financial resources, at the moment the money is missing in the budget. You have now introduced even about 50 dinars, which we pay for one number of electricity, for the remont of hydropower plants and for those 50 dinars goes 20% tax, so that's 60 dinars. But you don't know who the money can be taken from anymore, you don't know how to fill the budget. It's inappropriate for a deficit budget like this, I don't know what law this is, we're setting up some new bodies, organizations, agencies, directorates, and I don't know what else, which requires huge financial resources. By the end of the year, for one quarter, about 252 million should be provided. We certainly didn't get a full picture of how much funding is needed in the explanation that the government tells us that to implement this law we need to provide additional resources in the budget for the work of the prosecution, bigger, special department, special detention units - 50 million dinars by the end of 2003, and also for the work of the war crimes detection service, and that is again some special police. This morning I'm looking at this gendarme, they're walking down the street from a police station in Chukarica, in the front seat sitting the gendarme with long pipes thrown out the window, with sirens, people on the bus commenting on all that. It costs a lot, and there's no need. We no longer have organised crime, we have extradited everyone we had to hand over to The Hague tribunal, which is on Serbia's territory. I don't know who you're scaring anymore with those black uniforms on the street and those long pipes, all this country and what it costs. If we're going to be a police state, then it looks like we're going to have to give everything out of taxpayers just for the state's apparatus and for the police. I see you're cutting pensions. Pensions are shrinking, wages are gone, street unions, ministers are threatening workers by firing, although they have no right to do so, but as we do, they'll probably come back to all of us, so we'll see how, because of all of this we're doing here in Parliament, we'll pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31850	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have proposed that Article 19 be deleted as a logical consequence of the proposed amendments in which we have proposed to delete many provisions in this law. If these objections, i.e. amendments, are respected, it is not necessary to provide adequate technical and material, or spatial conditions for the prosecution, for the detention unit, for larger and for other bodies to participate in, as you say, the processing of war crimes. I have to admit, you're probably not aware of how much trouble you're going to get into with the application of this law. I would point out only to a few purely financial negative effects under this law, and also to remind you of what you are probably aware of, that you promised the people this way and in this way you will cooperate with The Hague tribunal, and that you will also spend people's money on this so-called. I don't think you'd get a single piece of the vote you won in the October month election. For the prosecution's work by the end of the year, 50 million, 202.600,000 for the work of special services to detect war crimes. I'd just like to remind you of the meaning of this sentence. Does that mean we haven't discovered who the war criminals are yet? Does that mean we haven't discovered war crimes yet, and that we have co-operation with The Hague tribunal? The federal regulations governing this co-operation and obliging our state union to co-operate with The Hague court and now that is not enough, but we must only impose on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for half a year another 250 million dinars, in order to satisfy The Hague tribunal and to apply one cynical provision of the reasoning contained in this material, which is to improve co-operation with The Hague Court. What this country has yet to do to improve co-operation with The Hague to make this so-called. The Hague tribunal was pleased? How many more presidents or citizens of this country should we deliver to The Hague or how many others so-called. War criminals should be arrested and so-called. War crimes to discover? If we already know who war criminals are and if we have a clear list of war crimes, then we don't need a special service to detect war crimes and to cost this people 202.600,000. It's interesting that the number is pretty accurate. So if someone already knows how much it should cost, then they know what crimes they're dealing with. If he knows what crimes he's dealing with, then he knows who the war criminals are. Then there's the jurisdiction of the D.A. and the courts who are already in office to do the job. This is how we're gonna double things, and we're gonna go crazy. Wasn't it more rational, economically celery and fairer to the judiciary to invest these planned funds in improving the technical conditions of the work of existing courts, starting from municipal, through county, to the Supreme Court? How do we suddenly realize that our courts and prosecutors are ready for this kind of trial against the so-called. War criminals? What are we going to do about the Americans, the members of the NATO Pact who committed crimes during NATO aggression? Are we allowed to process these men, who are apparently war criminals, without any dilemmas here or deliver them to The Hague? If we process them here, it costs this people. So, why are we even doing all this to the burden of the people? In six months 250 million, that means a billion dinars a year, with a tendency to raise those funds, because who knows where to end all these demands of The Hague Court and so on. international communities to go in this co-operation and how much more we're going to have to endure in order for someone to find themselves there and say, they're working with us. It is fortunate for this people that, in any case, if not before, there will probably be elections and that there will probably be some other, more reasonable people, who will belong to the government, who will not in this way arch national resources, and that much of it does not work in this country because of the lack of funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31852	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Dragoljub Stamenković and Joca Arsic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31853	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the case of war crimes offenders. The law provides that funds for the work of the war crimes prosecutor's office, special department, service and special detention units provide the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We do not consider it necessary for special prosecutions for war crimes, special councils, special departments, war crimes detection services and special detention units, and therefore there is no need for funds to provide the budget of the Republic of Serbia for these purposes, and because of what it costs, above all, 270 million dinars of taxpayers in Serbia, and also because there is already a way in the existing legislation to judge these crimes, which provides for this special law. Of course, we believe that anyone who is guilty of war crimes, whoever soiled his hands, whoever killed an unarmed civilian, a woman, a child, must answer, but before regular courts. Therefore, we cannot accept the words of an MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia that we do not want to and cannot stand, that Serbia cannot stand behind those who reportedly freed Serbs in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska from their televisions, refrigerators, wallets, etc., because Serbia has not yet stood behind such ones, and I ask if they know who these people were, how many they were, whether it was a mass phenomenon. In Nis, we buried 26 volunteers, members of the Serbian Radical Party, who died defending Serbs in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. We have barely collected contributions to bury them with dignity, to help their families build monuments. None of them freed not only Serbs, but neither the Croats, nor Muslims from their wallets, from their refrigerators, as some MPs allegedly insist against passing this law, while at the same time liberating Serbs and members of the regular forces of the Yugoslav Army, police and our volunteers for committing any war crimes. We also disagree with Minister Batic's saying that we need special detention units, because those accused of war crimes cannot share cells with secics, drug dealers and murderers. How many of them will be charged with war crimes and do we know who they are? It has been many years since the end of the war in Republika Srpska and Bosnia, and does anyone already know there are 200, 300, 500, who are these people? And in the end, if someone's really sure that someone committed a war crime, why not have him in custody with the secise and the other killers. Crime is a crime. That is the problem, which Minister Batic knows, which many innocents will be in those units, that many will spend a lot of time in those detention units at the moment of someone from The Hague or anywhere from the West. Why do we predict in advance that such cases will be and why we are talking to the world in advance - yes, this is a country where soldiers committed numerous war crimes and that is why we need to separate 270 million dinars, in order to make special prisons, special courts and special prosecutions. I imagine this service of detecting war crimes and war criminals as in the Wild West -- that specially armed people go from house to house, checking out ex-military, ex-cops who took part in the mission, volunteers. In doing so, I don't mean the individual political parties, but all the Serbs and all the patriots who participated in this war. Ladies and gentlemen, unless the government withdraws this bill, it is necessary at least to accept some amendments in order not to tell the world ourselves that we are a country of criminals, that we are a country where war crimes have been committed. And for all those who have been proven to have committed war crimes and the Serbian Radical Party is seeking trial and the strongest sentences, but before regular courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31854	The word came from Article 20, and MP Joca Arsic, after the amendment was submitted in the same text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31855	On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. (as the chairman has already said) and predicted that Article 20 should be deleted. I will remind you only that Article 20 reads - funds for the work of the war crimes prosecutor, greater for war crimes, special departments, services and special detention units are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In the debate in which I participated in the amendment to the previous members, I have already said that the adoption of this law requires special funds; this is, in the light of this law, envisaged, that 252.600,000 dinars should be provided for the implementation of this law. The arguments put forward so far for eradicating individual members, such as Articles 17, 18, 19, are also talking about the unnecessary implementation and adoption of such a law, thus also making these costs. Let us remind ourselves that we have delayed the formation of appeals courts precisely for the reasons of lack of space, resources, the inability to solve these problems and to form courts that will be tried in the second degree; therefore, precisely because of the lack of funds. We are now forming this court which is scheduled to judge Article 2, based on the head of JVI of the Basic Criminal Code. And so far, the processes are against the perpetrators of these acts provided for by this law, and nowhere in addition to this member and the invitation to the head of the CVI is it said which others are, in addition to those which are to be tried, and for what is a court of this kind to be established. Here only logistics support is established for what is already written in the existing Criminal Law, provides specific conditions, gives special salaries, special internship counts for what already exists in this country. To remind myself that Article 21 provides, and concerns these assets, the criminal offences under this law in which the indictment came into force until the date of entry into force of this law will continue to be conducted. It means that it can be tried according to existing regulations, under the existing law, that it can be tried in existing courts, which are county courts, and that these processes are being completed, and that this only costs the state and the people. My colleague, Jovan Todorovic, inspiredly explained it and explained it, I do not want to spread a bigger story about it. So, to conclude: these funds that are intended to function and to implement this law are completely unnecessary and the law itself is completely unnecessary because there are courts and prosecutors, and we are introducing three types of prosecution - the war crimes prosecution, the general prosecutor's office and the prosecution for organised crime. We have a separate prosecutor's office, where three different ways are called prosecutors: these prosecutors and this prosecutor will be elected by the Assembly, and he will appoint his deputies; those other deputy prosecutors will be appointed by the government; those third ones I don't know who, they'll probably find someone third. This is all a real cost to this country, and I don't see any good reason why it can't be done in regular courts, in regular proceedings, in regular prosecutions, to prosecute, as a respected minister can say well, and to judge, which I think there is a need, for those who have committed war crimes, to be tried. It also coincides with the ethics of this people, and I don't see a single party standing behind it, not being tried for war crimes. Please, we have courts, laws, prosecutions, all these affairs we can do in normal and regular procedures, in regular courts, and I think this law should be rejected, not just by these members, because nothing will be lost but the story that we want to co-operate with The Hague tribunal and make a small parallel Hague court in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31856	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the UN tribunal has obviously rang, it has been armed by 2008 anyway, and it is likely that it will cease to exist before that, as they also have the problem of funding and the largest debt to The Hague tribunal have the United States. Well, since they realize they're no longer being paid off, that they've spent too much money, that it's not a good investment, now we need to pass one of these laws that's supposed to serve war criminals, or suspects that have committed war crimes, which, once again, I don't know which way, and so far they've been able to answer for all those crimes that have been provided for by the Head of the Criminal Code. The funds needed for the work of the 3rd Special Prosecutor's Office, this war crimes council, which is already judges working in the district court, the special department, the third in a row to the police unit called the service here, are probably ZORS, with some special features and for which it is necessary to provide for three times the salary. You can imagine what it'll look like when the cops in one uniform have 10,000 dinars of pay, those in black maybe 15,000, and those who will have some special uniforms and special markings and who will chase only these alleged war criminals have extra funds again and, I guess, a lot of high wages. Wasn't it more effective that these funds that are provided here, although they are certainly not provided but are only foreseen, of 250 million dinars, which is next year a billion, perhaps even more, are redistributed so that regular police services are doing the job, and that the salaries to all employees are somewhat increased, because we can really agree that police officers have insufficient salaries and are constantly pointing out the problem of salary and unresolved housing issues for a large number of members of the interior ministry. Instead of repairing the position of employees of courts, in the prosecution, in prison and in the police, we are constantly setting up some special authorities, making division among them, paying them differently, some even predicting benefits in terms of increased length insurance; this cannot lead us to anything that would be good and commendable, but only to further weaken the position of the largest number of employees in the MUP and the court, which will not continue to be satisfied with their material position. Those who are not satisfied with their material position are prone to various abuses of their official position. Then we'll have a variety of actions that will be named as we've been used to having so far, and that's sabering, and a feather, and a sword, and an axe, and I don't know what they'll be called. It is not the way to fight all these phenomena, but to look at and measure how many people really need to be employed in certain bodies and organisations and what salaries they could meet their existential needs, to be satisfied with these receipts and to do their job in accordance with the law. Such people would not be subject to bribery and bribery. They would work in accordance with the law, not in accordance with the needs of their own pocket. We don't go by law like this, on the contrary, say that they should do such things and they should handle their economic situation on their own. The state can't stand it anymore, it won't have... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... There will be even less, but from some means you can plan, donate, or who knows what, like this financial aid that's constantly being conditioned by the United States of America. We're gonna throw money at this kind of thing. When we get financial aid, and how well to think about what we're going to spend it on, it's just not good to do it, and that's not going to be forever. She's armed and she's, unfortunately, always conditioned. By establishing new services, we only make it worse for those who are regularly employed in these bodies and organizations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31858	Thank you. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, also spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31859	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have proposed to delete this member of the law for two reasons. First of all, we believe that there was simply no need or place in the law for such organisational solutions provided for by this law. We felt that neither the War Crimes Prosecution nor the War Crimes Service, nor this particularly large, or a special detention unit, should be formed for the simple reason that the existing Criminal Law contains all those acts that involve war crimes, what is considered war crimes. It was logical that the existing provisions of Criminal Law were applied and that in the existing legal system, judicial authorities were doing their job. If so, and it is, then logically there was no need for the adoption of this law and for the establishment of special organisational units, and therefore there was no need for these funds. Fellows Jovan Todorovic and Joca Arsic showed, explaining Article 19 and 20, why these organisational solutions are not needed. Namely, for the War Crimes Research Service, 202 million dinars are separated for its work, as if the existing state authorities and the MUP were doing nothing, as if there were no special units involved in this business or those whose job it is, but now a special service for the detection of war crimes is being formed. Perhaps even better, the essence of this bill is shown by Article 21, which is in the transitional and final provisions and which says that the court proceedings that are with us should begin to end. We have several court proceedings in both Šapec and Prokuplje. This says that the courts of this country are conducting judicial proceedings against those who have been accused of committing war crimes, and if they are conducting judicial proceedings, it is logical that there was no need to form special organisational units and to allocate special money for them. In addition, this budget of the Republic of Serbia is not a bottomless bag where anyone can hold hands and take as long as it needs to satisfy his political ambitions or to meet his political goals. On this case, we show that we do not have a thrifty, rational, and I do not know how to formulate, the government, and as Mr Djelic likes to say. On the contrary, we see that we have one government that has succumbed to absolutely political needs. In order to satisfy its political interests and correct a very weak rating among Serbian citizens, it is ready to reach the budget. It would be logical for this law to be passed once the Budget Law is amended. This item is not provided for in the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we have heard earlier that nothing that is not foreseen will not be taken, etc. Additional funds are constantly being used. The other day 700 million dinars were given to the public service of RTS from the budget, although there were no words, yet a small group of people under the influence of DOS decide what is public interest. We have a paradoxical situation that, for example, these sessions of the Assembly are not being transferred, and where you will be more public interest than the sessions of the highest legislative body in the state are being transferred. And that shows the government's relationship with the declared objectives. We heard from the minister of justice and that this law will cover those war crimes perpetrators who committed crimes in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and this is about Albanians. I must say, unfortunately, it is a dry demagogy, for the simple reason that these Albanians, or some of them who have been accused of committing war crimes, who have been imprisoned and against whom the military court has initiated proceedings for war crimes committed, in early 2001, for political reasons, by adopting the Law on Amnesty in the SRJ Assembly, have been released; because of the political calling then the objectives have been released, and now they are giving lectures that they will be subject to the court. I'm saying this all for the simple reason that there's no room in the budget for these funds. In the budget, these funds are not foreseen and the budget will not be met, and time is running out. One more sentence. The situation in Serbia's economy is terrible. Yesterday we heard the Minister of Trade that in May, 250,000 people did not receive their own income. If there is no economy, if citizens do not receive personal income, if pensions are reduced, logically there will be no budget and there will be no funds. In addition, a law was passed that had no place, because the judicial authorities existed and were able to do this job. For these reasons, we have suggested that this member of the law be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31860	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Glava VI "Transitional and Final Provision" and Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Chapter VI, the "Transitional and Final Provision" in Article 21 reads: "Crime proceedings for the crimes referred to in Article 2 of this Act in which the indictment entered into force until the day of the entry into force of this law will end before the courts that were really and locally competent before the entry into force of this law. "Article 21 refers to Article 2. Article 2 states that this law applies to the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal acts set out in Chapter 16 of the Basic Criminal Code, i.e. crimes against humanity and international law. The amendment to the SRS defined that the title of Chapter VI "Transitional and Final Provision" and Article 21 is deleted. The SRS parliamentary group considers that the area of responsibility of individuals suspected of committing criminal offences is defined in the GLAI of the Basic Criminal Code in respect of the Authority, jurisdiction, organisation and procedure fully governed by the positive regulations. In the current legislation, there are already those offences which are treated by the proposal for this law, so it is not necessary to provide specifically for the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of these crimes. Thus, a member of the 21st is unnecessary. Since no government representative is present, it is likely that, in its amendment to Article 2, he would in fact provide for the erasure of Article 21. The question now is what and who are the persons who committed war crimes. In 1999, all along the war, I was in the Kachikola area, 10 kilometers from Pristina, there were 1,100 soldiers, I was a doctor. I've had more than one opportunity to provide assistance to the Shiptars. I can be a war criminal because I'm an intern, and maybe I haven't given adequate medical attention, maybe because I didn't specialize in military surgery or surgery, so I can be declared a war criminal. However, at the age of 19, I graduated from the school of reserve officers at the Military Academy in Belgrade, so, since there were 1,100 soldiers, and only one active officer, I had to lead over 100 soldiers in the fight against Shipara. I responsibly claim that none of these Serbs have committed any crime in that area, the Kachikola area, 10km from Pristina. I responsibly claim that only one NATO pact bomb killed four people from Lebanon; that during a time period of about two hours, when lunchtime, more than 10 people were killed while they consumed food and were not armed; that in a van that went to Pristina to supply medical equipment and drugs to our fighter, more than 20 people died. I'm asking the government who's going to be responsible for these war crimes, who's going to blame it, and I'm sure the Shiplars were behind it all. Whether I'm a war criminal or you're a Shipari, who killed our innocent, young soldiers there. That's what the current government needs to answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31862	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31863	Dear colleagues, we have reached the last chapter of this law. These are transitional and final provisions, so here is another opportunity for the Serbian government to be persuaded, and it seems to me in the right place in a member of the law that is now in favour of all the arguments that Serbian Radical Party MPs today and in previous days have made behind this speaker, against this law. We are also asking for this Article 21 to be deleted, but for the reason that I have already explained that we are trying to convince the Government that we do not need to pass a law like this and that we stand firmly in the belief that it is political law, and we are against political laws, but only for those laws can we define ourselves and change them in a different way, that are complete or that fit our legal system. This absolutely does not fit our legal system and this member of the law reads - criminal proceedings for the criminal offences of Article 2. (and I remind you that Article 2 provides for criminal acts from Chapter JVI of the Basic Criminal Code, which are otherwise called crimes against humanity and international law) in which the indictment has entered into force until the date of entry into force of this law will end before the courts that were really and locally competent before the entry into force of this law. Here, the promoter, who was obliged to provide for such a transitional provision, made it known and admitted that according to current regulations, and in the Criminal Law and Criminal Code, the basic criminal code on criminal proceedings could and could have been tried by individual cases if there was a reasonable suspicion that someone committed an individual crime which has the characteristics of a criminal act against humanity and international law. And if that's how we've done it so far, none of us here from the government's representatives, nor the government itself, have said why it is necessary to pass this law, except that it aims more effectively to prosecute war crimes indictees. So they admitted that our judiciary, the prosecution, our Home Office is inefficient, therefore irrational; therefore no one is responsible, and we should, so now we're going to create some new bodies and organizations that, by working under some new law, are going to be more efficient and rational. I'm sure that's not the case. Efficiency and rationality do not depend on whether a new law will be passed or done under the old law, but on the policy being conducted and on the one standing at the head of those services, which is just the minister of justice Vladan Batic, who was supposed to be here in the hall, who may now appear, and Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. Another reason to pass this law -- to improve co-operation with the International Tribunal for the persecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991. Now there remains one doubt, whether this applies to those who have committed war crimes in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. As it stands in the transitional provisions, it does not seem to apply to them and that Hashim Thaci and the others will remain out of reach of this law. We think he's a member of the 21st. The Serbian government has admitted that we have so far had procedures and trials for war crimes. We have two judicial verdicts, although at the same time we have for the past two and a half years and amnesty of 1,900 Shipara, which we will then not know how, with the help of... (President: I warn of time overruns. )......................................................................................................... to bring this service to justice. To be honest, we doubt that. That's where the government was contradictory. At one point, she showed her true face, whether then or now, she'll be seen in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31864	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Dragan Colic, who submits the amendment to Article 22. This is the last amendment to this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the process against war crimes offenders, asking for Article 22 to be deleted, and perhaps it would be best for all members to be deleted and that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. The motivation to submit amendments is reflected in the fact that this bill will certainly not help more effectively to prosecute war crimes indictees. I am not convinced that you understand properly and objectively what war crimes is and what you are prepared to do in this sphere because of your service to foreign officials. The Serbian Radical Party's MP group believes that the area of responsibility of individuals suspected of committing criminal acts is defined in the Basic Criminal Code of the Authority, jurisdiction, organisation and procedure fully governed by positive regulations. The government of the Republic of Serbia additionally complicates this area by creating an illusion that it is really doing something and through such laws only an unprofessional and unserious approach is realised. The essence of the law's proposal consists of a proposal that the UN tribunal is formed in Serbia. Foreign officials demand that the Serb people be found guilty only because they defended their own, so by defending themselves from the attackers, they eventually committed war crimes. There's nothing more honorable than defending the country, no matter what America and Europe think about it. What is this ideology that justifies the rocketing of a passenger train in the Gredile ravine? Is the war crime the murder of Milica Rakic in Zemun? What is it that led Milan Tepic to do what he will be remembered for? What is the difference between Milan Tepic and Vladan Batic? Judas sold Christ for 30 pieces of silver and entered history, and his followers will certainly raise their hands and vote for something that will be the greatest of disgrace and shame. If it's a crime to love your country, to die and sacrifice yourself for it, if it's a war crime, then surely you DOS MPs won't come under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31866	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular and the representative of the proposing Dr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice, is not present, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Action Plan on Harmonization of Economic Systems MEMBER STATES OF THE STATE COMMUNITY OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE FOR THE REFERENCE OF THE PROGRAMMES OF THE FREE PROGRAMMES OF LjuDI, ROBA, SERVICES AND CAPITALS You have received the bill, with the consolidated text of the Action Plan and the Annexes 1 to 21 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Krasic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Vjerica Radeta and Cedomir Jovanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. I would like the representatives of the parliamentary group to submit the lists with an application for this agenda item. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31867	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group on Wednesday, when we finished work on that day, the session continued today, I advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure and pointed out that we from the Serbian government were informed that the bill was withdrawn from the procedure and that the following day, we received an act from the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, who reported not to us MPs, nor the National Assembly, but rather an act addressed to the Serbian government's secretary, which carries the executive number of his cabinet, that this was done by mistake and that it was a misunderstanding. We don't mind that. That's possible. It is possible that the government was not aware of the government's commitments, which was in charge of working on harmonising relations between Serbia and Montenegro, but the government did not further inform us that it had withdrawn, firstly, the law from the procedure, so I do not know what we are doing today. You know, the government has to communicate with parliament, parliament only communicates with the government, not with individual ministers or vice-presidents of the government. I asked for that injury to be declared by the Administrative Board. You can see that from the stenographic notes. Until today, we haven't received an answer from the Administrative Board, and no matter what I assume you'll continue to do as you imagined and what we're going to take part in the debate as it shouldn't be, we just don't want to skip the subject. I think that we should have protected parliament from such a warring relationship between the government and us and that we should in this way make it clear to the Serbian government that it is bound to communicate with us, or that, if it has made a mistake, it sends an act to the President of the National Assembly, and then the President of the National Assembly to all the MPs, from which we will be clear that we are working in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Like this, we have this agenda point. Just on the basis of some knowledge, and here's the mere case that, I suppose, the Secretary of Government or I don't know who sent it to whom, but someone has given that material to be multiplied, and the MPs here on their benches have received a notice from the Deputy Prime Minister, who, by the way, has also been sent by a representative of the National Assembly to the Secretary of Government. The assembly, or president, should have tried to make it right. As it hasn't yet, and I don't know why the Administrative Board isn't, but here's after I've come out on a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have to call on a member, which is Article 28, which is the obligation of the President of the National Assembly to coordinate the work of working bodies. She could have scheduled a session of the Administrative Board to discuss it so far, and then we wouldn't have the need to explain it further or advertise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31868	You have already advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure on this matter and the Administrative Board will hold a session and will give you an answer to the laundry remarks. Does the Deputy Prime Minister's representative, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, want an opening statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31869	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with the remarks of my fellow Members. I think there's been an unnecessary administrative disturbance. I believe you'll appreciate the reasons that are primarily professional. Practically, the terms of the talks with the representatives of the European Commission and the term of the Explanation of the Action Plan before the MPs of the Republic of Parliament have coincided, and I have therefore asked to extend the start of the debate for the first working day of this week. I think there's been an administrative failure and it would be good for the Committee to give its interpretation. As far as the Action Plan is concerned, I believe the Assembly is aware of the importance of this document. Of course, in the previous two and a half years, we have made a lot of important decisions, but I think that this one is undefeated and, among other things, because practically the Action Plan opens the door to Europe to our society and what Parliament, by discussing this topic, has practically had the opportunity to meet the demands of our society, which, at the moment, wants Serbia to find itself in the community of European peoples who make up the European Union. The action plan is to harmonise the economic systems of the state union member states of Serbia-Montenegro, a document stemming from a series of previous decisions made by parliaments and one and the other republics, as well as the parliament of the state union. It is about the Belgrade Agreement, then the defined Constitutional Charter, and practically what is today the subject of our today debate we are giving life to the state that was formed by our decisions at the end of January of this year. The action plan consists of agreements in the field of smooth transport of goods, people, services and capital. It is a fundamental document that overcomes all the inherited differences resulting from political thinking that occurred in the middle of the 1990s, and at the same time this document is fundamental and because it is a healthy basis for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, just as the community was missing in the early 1990s when the SRJ was formed. I think it's a good policy that has the strength to separate economically from political logic, but at the same time to persecute each other. The document that lies before Parliament today is a document that, to the extent possible, has followed economic logic, the existential interests of two societies, to every extent, assuming them with political interests. I think we have fully succeeded in this, among other things, because of the solution that contains the information that lies ahead of you, and the decision itself and the members of this law, which we are going to discuss today. As for the very character of the Action Plan, it's an unprecedented law. Parliament has so far not discussed such a profile of documents, nor has it dealt with the arrangement of such complicated topics in a legal solution, as this time has been. What are these areas that are dramatically changing, which are areas that change in the way it is defined in the Action Plan, or the law on its implementation? These are areas of labour and employment, education, health, customs procedures, customs territory, areas that define capital management in one member and another, areas that define the transport of services. So, all those areas that in themselves, practically, mean life in the country we live in. As regards those protocols, i.e. the agreement, I think it is clear that the agreement on the smooth flow of people fully fits into those interests that are not only political and principled, but are also economic and logical, which should be respected in one document that has ambition to reconcile the differences between the two republics. I think that all those involved in work, employment, health and education will be satisfied with the solutions that contain this document, but at the same time with that direction of development that are very precisely defined, including the deadlines in which such a thing will happen. I believe the same is true of a non-interrupted service agreement. I think everyone will support the idea of licensing tourism organisations, the idea of developing tourism organisations and one and the other republics, the idea of licensing accounting and audit houses, that people will have the understanding of the kind of service that follows, for example, the decision of the Central Bank of Montenegro, which allows business banks to carry out trading operations and, in such a way, practically fully implements a two-currency system in Montenegro's space. So I am one by myself ambitious document, with very precise deadlines and decisions that must be made within these deadlines. What I want to stress at the same time is part of the Action Plan concerning the smooth transport of capital. Practically, this Action Plan, and the laws that will be formed in accordance with it or which have already been formed, defines a completely single territory in which there must be no obstacle to the smooth transfer of capital, regardless of whether it is physical persons, legal persons, real estate investments or some financial transactions that are characteristic of the stock market life. I think it is, however, the most significant part of the agreement that has dealt with the smooth traffic of goods, so the agreement that has hit those segments of our mutual relations that have been more than bad in the last seven or eight years. This is about customs territory, it's about customs proceedings, customs rates, it's about compliance, it's about the non-compliance of fiscal systems. Of course, this is also about testing the willingness and will and one and the other Member States for living together and improving mutual relations. What is the inevitable fact and characteristics of this action plan is certainly what puts it in the context of European integration. So two jobs were done parallelly. One job, in practice, is the harmonisation of mutual economic relations, and another job, a priority job for which we, in fact, have worked so dynamicly on this document, is the job of European integration, which, as a prerequisite, highlights the fact of the necessary and complete harmonisation of the mutual economic systems that should be done, to the extent possible immediately, but also in the dynamic plan that is defined in the time ahead. So, I think it's clear to all of us the importance of an uninterrupted trade agreement, customs rates, the necessity of harmonising customs territories and procedures, but at the same time I think everyone knows very well the characteristics of the state community in which we live. The Constitutional Charter, and then the law on its implementation, and before that in the Belgrade Agreement, defined the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, where members have full freedom in creating customs procedures, monetary policies, defining customs territory and protecting their markets, with the obligation to do so in a way that would bring them closer to one another. We, working on these documents and on this solution, have taken several important steps that deserve comment today. First of all, I think of the decisions made by the government of Serbia and the government of Montenegro, which have practically reached one customs space consisting of two customs territories, Serbia-Montenegro, but in such a functional way that they do not actually see differences between one system and another. Customs procedures, a very important segment, have been resolved through regulations or through customs legislation passed by the Republic government, are here in the assembly procedure and is identical to the customs law applicable in Montenegro. What is significant is that, after this action plan and its application, which must not be extended, we will have one customs space with a defined customs procedure, with two customs laws, but two customs laws that are identical and which do not make differences. What is a matter of life, a question of interest, an issue of economic systems and their profiles, is certainly part of an agreement on the smooth flow of goods concerning the harmonisation of customs positions, or the Harmonisation of economic systems that have been separated because of the different character of one and other economies. I think that all the witnesses of what marked these talks and that no one can deny the fact that hours and days spent at a precise analysis of 8,500 customs positions and defining customs rates that would, on the one hand, respond to the need for this society to align as quickly as possible with Montenegro, and then to the European Union and in another way, define this need so that no one can feel threatened, nor any of whose interests are demoted solely because of our society's ambition to be part of the European Union. Can these two extremes be reconciled? I think I can do it if we did it. In what way? In a way that is in itself exemplified, without example, because no country that has embarked on the process of talks with the European Commission has entered with such poor starting positions as in the economic sense were our own and has achieved such a significant shift as the one that we have achieved. Practically, when you analyse everything that marked the transition process and European integration of countries that will become full members of the European Union next year, and it is ten countries of Eastern Europe, and when you analyse everything that currently characterises these processes, let's say Romania and Bulgaria, which are in candidate status or Croatia, which has ambition to be a candidate and has pointed out that ambition officially, solutions offered in our action plan as a precondition for European integration, solutions the Commission has agreed to, solutions without precedent. This is not only because Europe had an exceptional understanding of Serbia's needs and, of course, Montenegro's needs, but also because we have invested a great deal of energy to convince European officials in Brussels that Serbia's priority needs to become in the shortest time period of time in the European Union and that it must be done in a different way than that which is characteristic of the very defined procedure itself, because Serbia is so different from all other countries that have started the job of European integration. We have defined two mechanisms in the field of a free-trafficking agreement -- a mechanism that has allowed us to apply 93% of customs positions, since they have been agreed, immediately after the amendments to the Customs Tariffs Act. Practically, that means by the end of the summer, and I believe half of August we will hold one session in which we will adopt these changes and in such a way, to the extent that the percentages speak, so in 93% of the cases we harmonize economic relations with each other in a way that is acceptable for both sides. What is the first quality shift in this document, which went in the direction of respecting our specific interests, is certainly this dynamic component containing the Action Plan, which includes 7% of products. What products and what customs positions? Well, precisely those products and those customs positions that represent the specific interest of both the Republic and those of customs products and customs positions that require time so that they can compete with European competitors. In these 7% of customs positions are the most sensitive products of our economy. These are agricultural products, or agrarians, 56 strategic products are covered by this dynamic component, but there are segments of the metal complex, the construction industry and there is a whole textile complex. In this way, the most sensitive industrial branches are protected, but at the same time, what I think is the need for our society that must not be challenged, which is an immediate and very effective start to the process of European integration. What does that mean in the case of customs positions and customs rates, to which extent is who damaged, to which extent did any of them benefit? I don't think anyone has lost this, but that we're going to have to try to change our habits and that everything that was the characteristics of our economy actually becomes the characteristics of our economy, which are the subject of analysis, but never the subject of our daily life. Practically, this means that from 9.5% of the nominal customs rate, the average customs rate has been reduced to 7.5%, so 2%, while Montenegro has risen from 2% to 6.9%, which speaks of the compatibility of two systems and indeed the resolutions of both governments, and one and the other Member States, to the extent possible, to align their own interests. Is anyone here damaged? I don't think anyone's damaged. If you're talking about the effects of dropping customs, they're double. The first effect is certainly a reduction in the budget revenue generated through customs collection, but I must tell you that it is often referred to as those customs products and those customs positions which are subject to the gray economy and which are most often not taxed, i.e. they are not taxed. On the other hand, I want to tell you that in such a way, the final consumer will be stimulated and protected and that we are counting on the effect of increased consumption to compensate for the minus resulting from the reduction of customs revenues and which, as far as the budget itself is concerned, is fully covered by the European Commission's decision to grant macroeconomic financial assistance of 65m euros. So our budget is not going to suffer because of this, but what we need to talk about and what we are going to discuss for sure are certainly the effects that will be noticed on every segment of our economy that is covered by this reform. It was most important for us to introduce that we respect the principle of economic logic, which tells us that those companies that are not competitive with the product, with the price and with the quality of this country cannot protect them indefinitely, because it costs it itself, which does not have autonomous sources of funding, but actually takes those funds from the citizens. We think that there must be a final break with existing practice and in a logically defined period of time to send everyone a clear message that this society has changed and that there are those economic principles that are characteristic of all modern societies, as we actually want to be. What does that mean? This means for our metal complex that in a 24-month period, manufacturers of motor vehicles, agricultural machinery or, for example, rail vehicles must provide a final answer to the question of their own potential, the quality of their product, the price, the way they think they survive on the European market, because the way they have so far is not a way that has a quality perspective and is not something that this country can monitor, because the subsidies and the resources they require actually do not exist. As far as agriculture is concerned, I think it is clear why it is not possible to follow the logic of harmonisation that was characteristic, let's say, for other areas, such as the energy or the chemical industry, precisely because there are so many differences between the two systems that they cannot be ignored, not even by any administrative decision to overcome. Fifty-six strategic products are actually products that Serbia produces, and Montenegro imports. We think it is impossible to continue to lower customs rates to the level that would be acceptable for Montenegro, among other things, because of the fact that negotiations with the World Trade Organisation are ahead of us and then negotiations with the European Union, in which we will have to give concessions and open our own market through the reduction of customs rates. So, we have fully protected our agriculture by defining the customs rates that have been in force so far, as customs rates that will be valid for the next five years. In order not to make it happen, in the meantime, because of some today's undefined and difficult-to-understanding interests, Serbia or Montenegro are beginning to suffer damage due to such rigid customs positions, we have agreed to carry out a review of customs policy after three years, and, if there is a need and agreement between the two governments, we are correcting these customs rates in a way that would be acceptable to both governments, i.e. one and the other agrarian. Practically, for a period of five years, we have tied the existing customs rates, thus denying all those criticisms that have been exposed to our policy and completely, in the way it has been characteristic so far, protects the area of agrarians. I think it is important to point out for the area of agriculture and the fact that we are introducing seasonal customs rates, which will allow us to lower the domestic production rate for these products during the period during which there is a period of domestic production, and in which there is no domestic production of customs duties, so that the cheaper agricultural products are on the market. What was a serious obstacle to the finalisation of the Action Plan is the issue of the administrative line, customs procedures, the issue of compliance of the fiscal system, the issue of FTA arrangements and the question of respect for the treaty with the European Commission. These were the subjects of additional talks held last week in Brussels, which were explained in Annex 21 and which are an integral part of the Action Plan. I think it's obvious that it's not about dramatic changes, that it's about technical correction, and that's why I'm going to explain very briefly what our motives were when we entered into those negotiations and why we agreed to those decisions. We believe that it is not natural for a country that has an ambition to be a state to cross over what is called an administrative line or a border between the two Member States. Such a thing is, among other things, shown through mutual acceptance of the finding which is an integral part of the Action Plan and which says that the administrative line will actually be a line that will ensure the smooth application of the Action Plan, which will be linked to the transition period and which, after absolute harmonisation of economic relations, will be abolished. So, in this Action Plan, there is a confirmation of our seriousness in the business in which we are engaged, and among other things through the finding that the administrative line will be abolished as soon as the tasks that are precisely counted in the document in front of the MPs are completed. The issue of customs procedures and customs procedures; I mentioned identical customs laws, but I would also like to point out to you the regulations that harmonize the differences that arise as a result of the various fiscal systems. On the one hand, the difference produced by value added tax in Montenegro, on the other hand, the difference produced by sales tax in Serbia. Serbian companies will not be damaged on the Montenegrin market. They will be able to compete uninterruptedly with international competition because, based on the government's decision, they are exempt from sales tax if they are engaged in the transfer of their goods to the territory of Montenegro. It is the same case with companies from Montenegro, so we can say that one administrative solution we practically brought down those barriers that existed in Serbia-Montenegro's relations to this Action Plan. The issue of speculation, abuse, is virtually minimalized through decisions by both governments, which have prevented the transfer of strategic products from Montenegro to Serbia, because we have introduced these reliefs and preferences for Montenegro, resulting in the fact that it is their internal needs and on the other hand, let's say, by a decision of the Republic government which makes it impossible to transfer Serbia's oil derivatives to Montenegro. I think it's a fact that we've harmonised the economic systems at 93% and that for the remaining 7% we have agreed customs rates. We can also actually talk about the definitive prevention of manipulation and smuggling that marked the previous period, and it was the consequence of these very large differences between one system and another. A free trade agreement, a very important document, negotiated by the federal government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In this business, representatives of Montenegro were bypassed, and in agreement with the European Commission, we have defined a three-month period as a period during which the Montenegrin government will appear as negotiator with Croatia, Albania and the countries with which we have signed agreements, which further endanger Montenegrin interests and through an annex model agreed with the Commission and the Stability Pact of Southeast Europe, amend these agreements and correct them in accordance with their own interests. I don't think that's ever been a problem for us, because something like that is certainly well done. What I want to point out in the opening statement is that our principles in defining customs rates were as follows: customs rates for finished products should not be lowered, but customs rates for re-promatter should not be lowered; customs rates in those segments of our economy in which producers are in the privatisation process should not be lowered; customs rates in those segments of our economy where private companies have started large investment cycles and you will really see that this is how it is done. Of course, there are exceptions among 8,500 products, but they only confirm the rule. In the textile area, the textile industry is fully protected, but customs re-promatter rates have been lowered, so that our textile producers do not have to import re-promaterials that are more expensive than domestic ones just because domestic textile producers are not ready to comply with the criteria imposed on the market on which producers of finished textile products appear. You'll see something very interesting, export customs for raw skin. In such a way, we protect the skin and shoes industry, because it is absolutely amazing that our domestic raw skin industry is selling abroad, and that our leather and footwear industry must buy that raw skin from abroad, because such speculation is made that does not actually allow our producers of finished products in the area of the skin and shoes to settle their needs on the domestic market, because speculation is more lucrative. It is this 20% export duty that we have prevented these speculative shops and tried to import full reprolance from the producers of the repromaterials to the manufacturer of the finished product. I think it should be noted, as positive examples, which respect specific interests in the metal complex, while at the same time in the areas of agriculture, textiles, the construction industry, in the way that is precisely defined here, which is in front of the MPs and in the way that I think is easily comparable to all other economic measures that are characteristic of those areas that we aim at. Our nominal customs rate remains far above the European average and we will have to, if we want to be part of the single market, continue to bring it down. It takes a time for such a thing, in order for our companies to adapt to international competition, but I think this is the last moment in which such a thing can begin. The adoption of this action plan opens doors and Serbia-Montenegro, the door of Europe that I think should finally be opened, are those doors that our ancestors have been standing before for generations. Finally, I think it is an extraordinary honor for this House to discuss, and I think that Parliament will certainly understand the need for our society and this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31870	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Jovanovic, and ask if the committee's rapporteurs want to participate in the debate. There's no application. We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the president of the parliamentary groups. First, MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31871	The Honored Presidency, fellow MPs, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia believes that the Bill on Action Plan for Harmonisation of the Economic Systems of the Member States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, in order to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital, has no content and importance as attributed to it by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is in fact a single list, a finding of the fact that there is no common state of Serbia-Montenegro and the presence of numerous differences. The draft action plan law confirms that it was made in the spirit of the "Belgrade Agreement", which is now one of the signatories, Prof. Labus, disowns and, of course, on the basis of the Constitutional Charter and represents only two bad documents, of which could not, and in the press we read or wanted to do anything better. Although it calls for Article 11(2). The Constitutional Charter, as a reason for the adoption of the emergency law, did not meet the requirements of Part III of the Charter, which relate to the principles of the market economy, and in particular to Article 13, which concerns freedom of movement of the vote: "There is free movement of people, goods, services and capital in Serbia-Montenegro. It is forbidden to prevent free flow of people, goods and capital between the state of Serbia and Montenegro." That freedom of movement is not the best confirmed by the content of the Action Plan itself, but also by the events at the Serbia-Montenegro border in Brodarevo and Mehov's junk and the measures that Serbia-Montenegro authorities apply there. DOS representatives, representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, who have been holding talks with the government of Montenegro for more than a year have not had the strength or the ability to find solutions for the common state's interest with political like-minded people from Montenegro. The inventory of the existing situation and the present differences is not a step forward and cannot be qualified as such. The action plan failed to overcome the bad solutions of the Constitutional Charter. There is still no single market, a single economic system, there are still two currencies, a dinar in Serbia, a euro in Montenegro, we still have two banking systems, two central banks, two customs, two customs lines, two customs procedures, two administrations, etc. What a country, like that and solutions. As the state union of Serbia and Montenegro has no rivals in the world, a country similar to itself, so the solutions in the Action Plan are in itself special, to say the same. The Deputy Prime Minister mentioned earlier that the solutions in the Action Plan are unusual. That's right. Similar or identical solutions really do not exist in the world, as there is no state like Serbia-Montenegro. That no representatives of both governments have confirmed since the agreement of the economic systems of the Member States in this document, the representatives of the Serbian government say the Action Plan is fully in line with Serbia's needs, representatives of the government of Montenegro say the Action Plan is fully in line with Montenegro's needs, but neither speak of a degree of compliance between Serbia-Montenegro's economic systems, as the so-called common states, are not saying because it is not, but is planned for some future, a pure political solution. When you can't solve something, or you don't want to, then leave it and it'll get rid of it. The action plan for the harmonisation of the economic systems of the Member States of the so-called state of Serbia-Montenegro contains provisions on the free flow of people, goods, services and capital, including targets set, measures achieved, as well as planned harmonisation measures. These planned measures in fact show and confirm that the Action Plan is a cross-section of the factual state, the present differences, unresolved issues, the closure of the two states, the unprepared political elites in Serbia-Montenegro for the construction of a common state. Many harmonisation measures are planned for application until 31 December 2004. The application of some agreed customs rates for certain customs positions is foreseen after 18 months or 24 months since the entry into force of the Action Plan, which objectively raises the question of whether they will be applied at all, or what will happen to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We must ask ourselves plainly whether such solutions are agreed so as not to be adopted. It's a long time. The Constitutional Charter was adopted at the beginning of February 2003, Article 20 of Article 4 stipulates that after two years, lawmakers of the Montenegrin Parliament are elected in direct elections. The choice will be whether you want it or not. The political scene will change, Serbia certainly, which confirms the results of these local elections, especially the SPS results, with 19.48... You know very well. I sincerely hope that elections will take place in Montenegro and then other political factors will find answers to questions that DOS and DPS Milo Djukanovic have failed. The application of certain measures may continue to be delayed until the application of Article 60(1) and (2). Constitutional statutes, which provides for a referendum of Member States to step down from the state community. If that happens, and all the opportunity is to want, then all the stories of coherent attitudes and common goals and the common future fall into the water. The agreement also implies that the two delegations, as we hear it, are supported by representatives of the European Union, that 56 strategic agricultural products are subject to different customs rates for Serbia-Montenegro over the next five years, three plus two. This again essentially means that there is nothing from the European Union over the next five years, that neither the president of the Serbian government, Mr Zivkovic, nor the president of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, Mr Maravic, were founded on the admission of Serbia-Montenegro to the European Union by 2007. It is obvious that the process of association and stabilisation with the European Union will take several years, while the political and state changes that arise after the elections or the referendum held will further affect the pace of Serbia-Montenegro's accession, together or individually, into membership of the European Union. It is obvious that the original solution is due to the dissatisfaction of Chris Paten, EU Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, the content of the Action Plan for Harmonisation of Economic Systems and the desire for it to be replaced by a far more pragmatic and a worse solution for us. Just get in line, and in the meantime, there'll be a election and a referendum, and we'll see what happens later. With this solution for 56 agricultural products, the European Union also met Milo Djukanovic's request, which has declared that a different solution would lead to the fall of the government of Montenegro, as citizens would, in his words, be exposed to large unwarranted costs. Basically, the European Union has left us alone, where we have been, divided and politically quarreled, because if it hadn't, it would have sought solutions in the interests of the common state. When it comes to applying new customs rates and new tariffs to be agreed by the end of this year, I would point to several bad effects that this application will cause in Serbia's economy and logically affect citizens. First, by lowering customs rates, our bad economy in the competition of foreign goods, at a high price, will be almost destroyed. We almost don't have an economy, and after this, it certainly won't be. Secondly, the negative effects will certainly reflect on the external trade balance. Even easier and more elegant in the existing monetary policy and foreign trade regime, imports will be growing and higher, and exports will grow smaller and smaller. The external trade deficit is over $4 billion, exports will hardly be, and thus our ability to pay off annuities and interest to foreign creditors will certainly be questioned, we will not be able to meet them. This year we have to pay 488 million, and the commitment is constantly increasing, so in 2007 our commitment will be $1,354 billion, and of course every year more and more. This economy certainly can't fulfill it. Thirdly, due to reduced customs rates, we will have a significant reduction in customs revenue and thus the revenues of the republican budget. The budget has many problems anyway, almost not full, economic activity declines, the projected growth rate will not be achieved, expected foreign investments are lagging behind, there is no revenue from privatisation, no donations, and the budget is taken and spent money for other purposes. Since the first 10 minutes are up, I'll leave it for later, and I have to say one more time our attitude. The SPS's stance is that for all the above reasons, the SPS will not support the draft legislation on the economic harmonisation of the state union member states' economic systems of Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31872	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31873	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to comment on the shortest lines of views of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, in order to help the MPs in the debate itself. As far as criticism followed by agrarian solutions, and in relation to 56 strategic products, I must correct you, your findings are not correct which explain the motive of the European Commission which has confirmed such a decision. On the contrary, in Annex 21, which is presented as material in front of you, Article 4, it is very clear: "The transitional period for the harmonisation of customs rates for 56 agricultural products, defined by the Action Plan, will not be longer than three years from the date of adoption of the action plan law, with the possibility of extending this period for an additional period of two years, and in accordance with the agreements between the two governments. Serbia-Montenegro aims to join the World Trade Organisation before the transitional period expires. If Serbia-Montenegro joins the WTO before the transitional period expires, harmonisation of customs rates for 56 agricultural products must be carried out by the date of membership of the WTO. This provision (which is very important now and which I don't think should be ignored) will in no case be applied or interpreted as an obstacle to Serbia-Montenegro's integration process into the European Union." This means that we, with great confidence, guarantee that the process of making a feasibility study will be completed by autumn and then will begin our work on meeting the conditions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, whose signing will not depend on this solution, but on our willingness to adapt to a model that is characteristic of the European Union. This is not an obstacle to European integration, on the contrary, to enable European integration and the economy that is so deformed that it is practically impossible to do such a thing without special conditions within a time-consuming time-limit. Violation of the Constitutional Charter; I don't think it's a violation of the Constitutional Charter. On the contrary, we have fully tried not only to respect the Constitutional Charter, but to develop it, so are indeed properly defined customs procedures, which are authentic and Serbian and Montenegrin, but the will of the two governments is established to form at the level of the state community a joint office of the administration of Serbia and the customs of Montenegro, which will take over part of the jurisdiction of one and the other customs and thus, for the first time, after many years, unite the customs procedure and procedure on the new state community which is binding for both the one and the other republic. It is the development of what has been defined by the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter, not the degradation of these documents. Such a thing should be supported, as well as the decision of the two governments and the willingness of the two governments, and hopefully two parliaments, to support the establishment of a common tourism office at the level of the state union, which has not existed so far and which will be one addressee across the globe, a joint office for textiles, a common statistical institution. So, all those institutions that didn't function, and formally existed during the previous SRJ. As far as our consensus is concerned, I don't think it can be questioned, because it is explicitly expressed through the fact that 93% of the products will be harmonised at the moment when this action plan is confirmed by two congregations, and then by the assembly of the state community. The other 7% will then be brought into line within defined time limits and with established procedure. So within the defined time limits of 18 or 24 months and with the defined procedure. Why do you need something like that? For example, in the case of a metal complex and the part that employs 200,000 workers, it is necessary to provide these people with an additional period of restructuring, adapting to the European way of business. Also, our automotive industry, as well as all the companies that depend directly on it, and our rail vehicles industry, and even our agriculture. This is necessary during this time period because this country cannot help those who suffer through these solutions through subsidies. And if Europe had left us alone, that's partly true. This action plan is not being adopted because of Europe. It is brought about because it is, I guess, a clear expression of our consciousness and the need for each other to solve problems that have arisen. If Serbia-Montenegro cannot agree with each other, we will not be able to agree with Brussels and be sure of that. It's a message from Brussels. This is not just a message to us as negotiators in front of one or another government, but it is a message to those who have created the Belgrade Agreement and thus defined the frameworks in which we are moving today, but it is a message to all those who think that because of the major problems that follow the resolution of Serbia-Montenegro's relations might be easier to resolve the relationship between Serbia and the European Union. It won't be easier. That's all we do is disqualify ourselves. This is the first life to be brought into a state community that was a political form, and that is why it should be supported. If there are problems in them, it should be spoken openly, but should not be pointed out as arguments that contribute to the failure to adopt the action plan. It is true that there will be less budget revenue in the area of achieving funds through customs collection, without any dilemmas. We can't exactly say how much, because there's no information system based on which we could look at it. We can assume. The ceiling is 70m euros in the budget minus. That is why the European Union has decided to cover these budgetary needs with the macroeconomic support of 65m euros. So, in the next year, our budget doesn't take anything. The issue of deficits; all transition societies must solve three problems, budget deficits, trade deficits and employment problems. Our deficit across the world is big, but not because of customs rates, because with these customs rates, it was big, but it's big because we don't even have financial support that must follow the export economic policy, or the quality we need that could allow us to appear on world markets. That's what we have to remove. It's impossible to protect our economy with only customs rates. Let's see what else affects the external trade deficit. Could it affect loans with a monthly rate of 3%? Of course they do. Does the absence of stimulation affect? Of course it does. Is there an economy that solved the external trade deficit by raising customs? It doesn't exist. Are there economies that have fuelled mutual competition in the internal economy by lowering customs rates? There are examples that are numerous. The increase in consumption will partially increase the deficit, but at the same time our companies will get the opportunity through this increased consumption to create excess values due to a cheaper repromation that will then allow them to transform. Just another comment on the question of the market economy principle. I think they're numerous and I can't define them with one phrase. The market economy exists in both Serbia and Montenegro, but there is no single market. This is due to political concepts that have conflicted with each other and have led to these differences. If political will can be reconciled, then it is best to do so right through the process that previously frustrated them. So, through the co-operation of two governments. It exists through economic measures that these two governments define. It's true, two customs procedures, but under the same customs law. And for every businessman, there will indeed be, after this action plan, whether the goods are imported through the Bar or through Kelebia. It's absolutely true. As far as the issues of this state community's perspective are concerned, I think this is a quality provided. Whether this state union will depend on only two coalitions, I don't think it would be good to do so. We are not afraid of choices, but I hope that those who respect the need for this society in these victory elections, which for two centuries is trying to be part of Europe; and that they will not dispute those principles that the Commission itself has previously confirmed; and that new elections will only contribute to the creation of the necessary critical mass that will give acceleration to these processes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31874	The word comes from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31875	Dear MPs, since we got the materials this morning, we have those materials that are with the June 11th date, and we also got the Action Plan this morning, and then and now, and we see that the action plan that we got this morning differs from the action plan that we got on June 11th. On page 8, below 4. - Planned harmonisation measures, paragraph 30, followed by point 31 immediately, has one other attitude. There's a lot more. We got two different texts under one name and that's probably the result of the withdrawal, so it couldn't come from procedural reasons to going back to the agenda, if we have two essentially different texts. You can't pull something and go back and justify yourself with technical disadvantages and get different texts. This reduces the possibility of an adequate analysis and I think it's a procedural failure, as well as the fact that, according to media reports, tonight, there will be a more accurate speech tonight on the harmonisation action plan and that some areas will be regulated tonight. In particular, the European Union and the European Commission will deal with this tonight, and there will certainly be new changes tomorrow. It would simply be wiser and smarter if such serious things, which should essentially mean the implementation of the Constitutional Charter, the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter and the simple resuscitation of the state community through these functions and these connections, that we had delayed, that we had finally received one text and that we had discussed it afterwards. This way we will be constantly getting some changes in our walk, and we will not be able to adequately respond to the amendments, nor in a way to contribute to the improvement of this, because this will constantly change and you will get one different text from that original text, especially in areas that are very important for Serbia-Montenegro's life. Position two states, and when I say two states, I mean first of all... I'd like to ask you to calm Mrs Milka down, since she's throwing it away. Mrs. Milka, if you already have so many problems, then take a look at the fruit and vegetable rate and explain your raspberries and explain to them why after adoption of this customs plan for imports of raspberries will be lower than they are now and whether these imports will be. That's your thing. This agreement... I would ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure to the Members of Parliament who have won. Mrs. Komic, I would like to ask you to allow me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to express myself, and now as anyone interprets it, but simply to allow me to discuss it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I insist that you warn the MPs from your parliamentary group who receive and allow speakers to uninterruptedly expose what they have. You obviously can't do that. That says more about you than it does about us. It speaks of the nature of your authority, as well as the nature of the action plan. This action plan is more than a rotten compromise of two authorities, with positions from which this action plan has arisen, and if you take into account that the European Commission and the European Union have been more protected by citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, especially the citizens of Serbia and the future of the state union, than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that the European Union has had to make objections to an action plan that will contribute to better functioning of the state community and that these objections are respected more than the objections that came from here and which have warned on time. I'm talking about what the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken care of. The government of the Republic of Serbia took care of Montenegro's interests. This is seen by the rate and the way agricultural and other products have been harmonised and only when the European Union said, so what you are doing, what you are doing is not leading to harmonisation of relationships, but to separate relations, then it was going to be done to fix it. Why did the Government of the Republic of Serbia not have any interest in the future of the state union, in the functioning of the state union, in the interest of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, especially Serbia. But she only had to do it when the European Union did it. Why did the European Union come in a position to protect our interest more than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here we are talking about rotten compromises, which are more than just other rotten compromises. On the rotten compromises that were created in the creation of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, where many sacrificed everything for the favor of Milo Djukanovic and similar to him, and where the state union was sacrificed and the normal functioning of the state community for the sake of the favor of those same. Whether Milo Djukanovic's affection and his parties are worth more than Serbia and the entire state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Well, it's obvious to some. Until the European Union said to re-read 56 products, then we inserted one provision that it would be harmonised over a period of three plus two years. Today, the pack will arrive so that it cannot, but that it must be harmonised within the next year, and then we will again be in a position for the European Union to take more care of the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro and the state union, rather than for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro. I completely understand why Montenegro is doing this. They have the lowest average customs duty in this region, they have only 3% and that is a big difference compared to the next state, Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has 6.8%. Harmonisation is possible through two solutions. One is a single market model, and in this case the foreign-trade monetary regime would be unique, allowing for a completely free flow of goods, services and labour. In another we have the opposite solution, where access from the position of two markets, i.e. two special external trade and monetary regimes. The free flow of goods, services and labour would not be possible, of course, because we have two completely separate markets, and thus we cannot clearly implement the process of harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's relations. If it is considered that our customs rates in 2001 are reduced from 14% to 9.4% and that this would mean a further reduction in customs rates and the introduction of a restrictive system, we are in a position that, given that we have 45% of total exports to the European Union and that 60% are products of textiles, clothing and footwear, steel, steel products and trees, these areas would be the most affected by such a solution. If we go from looking at the Thessaloniki Declaration only, you will see that the reception needs to be met, that it will go individually, not collectively into the European Union, and that the Thessaloniki Declaration says that great assistance from the European Union cannot be expected over the next two years, given that about 200m euros are allocated to the entire region. If you have looked at the Thessaloniki Declaration, as you probably haven't done, what is very important for joining the European Union and simply during the stabilisation process and associations are criteria from Copenhagen. You have probably heard of Copenhagen, but you are not believed to have criteria, so I will read them, that is, in 1993, it is defined, and it says: "The stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and minorities; 2) the existence of an efficient and competitive market economy; 3) the competitiveness of domestic enterprises and their ability to resist strong competition within the European Union, the ability to assume a commitment arising from membership, including the realisation of the objectives of political, economic and monetary union". You have probably heard of Mastricht, and some more by the name of the football club, as they visit more bookmakers than this assembly, but in Mastricht, one contract has been concluded, saying that economic conditions established by the Mastricht Treaty, which assess the readiness of the EU countries to join the European and monetary union; below 1) a high degree of price stability, the inflation rate must not be higher than 1.5% compared to the inflation rate in the first three countries with the smallest inflation; 2) a reduction of public debt to 60% of the gross social product and a budget deficit of up to 3% of the gross social product; 3) a stable exchange rate; 4) average nominal and long-term interest should not be more than 2% compared to the interest rates of 30 European Union countries with the lowest inflation rate. All this is talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31876	Do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31877	No, I just want to use the time they've interrupted me for, which is two minutes, and I'll use my next ten minutes later. So...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31878	National MP, you have the right to use the opening and 10 minutes at the end, as MP, president of the parliamentary group. The time of the Rules of Procedure is 10 minutes, and everything else is decided by the chairman. So, are you using the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31879	I'm not using it. I just want to finish it. So the Action Plan ahead of us, which was created as a result of the trove of compromise, does not lead to normalisation of two markets, two systems into one system, and we will continue to have an administrative limit, we will continue to have customs exposures and this is well seen from these documents. We're still going to have some "peace council" that's going to solve the conflicts here raised almost to the level of two states, which tells us all that this plan will not harmonize relations but will only strengthen separation and strengthen the positions of the two states. Thus, the DSS is certainly unable to support this plan because it is contrary to the idea of Serbia-Montenegro's state union, creating a single system, a single state. We have separate monetary and customs systems, we're going to have separate markets, bad payment traffic because we have two coins, and it's just going to be very hard for this state community to function this way. What this action plan needed to determine is to enable the functioning of the state community. This plan will make it very difficult, almost impossible, and simply the deadlines set here speak of the intention to delay the essential problems for the time when the current set will not be in power and leave hot potatoes to those responsible for taking care of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31880	Mr. People's MP, I warn you of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure as president of the Parliamentary Group by your own personal example, proving that you are capable of making the rules you are looking for for yourself possible for others. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31881	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit I expected more concrete remarks. As for the findings on different monetary systems and different customs systems, they are obvious and stem from the Belgrade Agreement, which was defined in March of last year through the political consent of the Serbian-Montenegro government, through the political consent of the European Union, or its foreign policy representative, Mr Solana, and through the very firm and principled commitment of the then SRJ president, Mr Kostunica, who also supported the document. So, the idea of an ex post mind, characteristic of the individual signatories of the agreement, after a year, is not really due to their concern for the state community, but because of their concern for their own political future. Since you are not actors of political events that you have defined yourself, you are now challenging these political events. There is no reason for the Serbian parliament to worry about Montenegro's interests, when it is already being done by the parties that are parliamentary parties in the republic. The Constitutional Charter and the Belgrade Agreement cost all parliamentary parties in Montenegro, excluding the Liberal Alliance. But he's also represented in the state community. So, not Mr Djukanovic, but also Mr Djukanovic and Mr Krivokapic, Mr Bulatovic. Also for the Montenegrin political scene is a type of seriousness missing from our political scene, which is, among other things, seen in that short memory. The idea of meeting with the representatives of the European Commission is not the one presented here to the MPs, on the contrary, it was our initiative to fully comply with the very complicated procedures of the European Union. How complicated are they? So much so that "Acluis Communitaire", a document that exists and which has been defined, a document containing 80,000 pages and such extensive material required a meeting to explain the specific characteristics of this action plan that we did not want to question during the European integration process. In order to get a definition of the European Union that says that Serbia's strategic interests, or Montenegro, in the field of agrarians, are not interested in European integration, and you will see that our initiative has not changed in terms of meeting with representatives of the European Commission, such as some other initiatives that were characteristic of the period before the Belgrade Agreement. The previous formulation meant preferential imports. This formulation implies a practically identical principle, with the definition of a three plus two-year deadline, which is acceptable to us and which is not in conflict with what we previously said, bringing as a time limit the process of joining the World Trade Organisation, which we want to conclude for the longest time in four years. So these are facts, and within those facts, we would have to move. I think it's completely pointless to talk about the textile industry as an industry that will suffer damage. On the contrary, our textiles are particularly protected, not only through customs rates defined, but also through new quotas discussed and which will improve our imports. Since you mentioned raspberries, I will tell you what I said before, which is that seasonal customs rates have been introduced to ensure that our market and our consumers are fully supplied at all times in accordance with their needs. During the season, domestic raspberries will be a different regime for imports of raspberries, and during the season in which there are no raspberries, no domestic products, imports will be made possible so that our market will not be deficited. Nothing more, and it's a practice that exists all over the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31882	Replication rights, president of the DSS parliamentary group, Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31883	Well, well, a few facts and I agree with you there that the Montenegrin parliament is taking care of Montenegro's interest and that should not be disputed. I wish the Serbian Parliament could take care of Serbia's interest and that the government of the Republic of Serbia, unlike how the European Union does it, is taking care of the interests of Serbia's economy. It's a fundamental thing and it's a fundamental problem. We are talking about the European Union having to force the government of the Republic of Serbia to take measures that are of interest to the citizens of Serbia and the functioning of the single market. We're not talking about Montenegro doing anything. Well, of course Montenegro cares about getting as liberal customs rates as possible, to keep them as low as possible, given that "the economic power of Montenegro" is not the result of industry but everything else, but rather it is based on tourism. She's got a couple of failed combinations and that's why some customs rates have been put in to protect those combineds. The point here is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced provisions to protect the economy and these are customs, as you say seasonal customs rates. There's these 56 products. But all I'm saying is a fact. So we don't even know today, today when we're discussing this, we don't know what the Action Plan is going to look like. So he's still changing, he's still subject to change, and we may not get the final text until tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or maybe in five or six months, or maybe never. Maybe it'll all stay on paper. If we look at only differences, say in customs rates, we had 30% for cattle and pigs, Montenegro - zero. So, this should have been harmonised in a way that does not damage our country, and that Montenegro is approaching some standards, i.e. external trade and customs rates at all, at the level of the entire state. Of course that wasn't easy at all. What I'm saying is, that's the fact that you need to take care of Serbia and the functioning of the state community, because if you have a solution that's at the expense of a larger and one member of the state community, you can't harmonize relationships. So, when concluding these agreements, it was not necessary to do what Milo Djukanovic or someone in his environment wanted, but to draw the line, see what the intentions of the European Union were, and that is, first of all, to harmonize relations towards these provisions from Copenhagen and Mastricht, which I was talking about, to become members of the European Union as soon as possible. We Member of the European Union cannot be in the period that was discussed here until 2007, since there will be only individual membership, individual relations. There will simply be no more collective memberships, but will be watched whether each country meets individual conditions. (President: three minutes. ) It is therefore important to respect the Belgrade Agreement, which would be a political act, which, through the Constitutional Charter and the law, has been translated into a legal act, which is fully distorted through the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, and on property and on all matters, and this is the basis of the Belgrade Agreement and the political will expressed in this assembly, to create a state union of the or joint state of Serbia-Montenegro, which will function, and not which will be a way to create two fully separated systems and to extend the state of the time of Milosevic, completely separate systems.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31884	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word has been issued by MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the SNS parliamentary group, followed by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, and then MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31885	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the very principle of trying to harmonise relations is a good attempt to finally reconcile relations between Serbia and Montenegro. But I have to say, I'm more concerned about the part that's left out in this part and the number of questions that haven't been commented on in this way at all. Those 7% of non-compliant customs rates, in my opinion, remain a serious problem for the Republic of Serbia, because, let's say, if you didn't coordinate cigarettes, cars, coffee, bananas... (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Yes. Cars? Not for 24 months.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31886	I also ask the People's Parliament and the Vice-President of the Government not to have dialogue. There's a procedural business space for the exchange of arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31887	For cigarettes, as far as I know, it certainly isn't. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: Yes. ) Therefore, it seems to me that as a state, we will have damage in that part, serious damage, because it is clear that in the past 20 years, I believe, the relationship of the firm from Montenegro to the Serbian market, imports of goods from Montenegro to the Serbian market, and the total participation in the gross social product of the common state was only 5%, wherever and where higher. I'm talking about that part. It seems to me that it is a shame for Serbian businessmen to move in order, from imports of raw materials, and there are companies in Montenegro that deal exclusively with imports of raw materials to the Serbian market, and it is known that some branches there do not function at all and do not work, and I do not think there has been sufficient harmonisation in that part. Of course, the harmonisation process should continue, but it seems to me that Serbia can no longer make any political or other concessions. I don't think it has been achieved at this stage enough to say that there is absolute harmonisation at the principles of common customs rates, or relations in which Serbia will have paid taxes in the Republic. It is known that only papers continue to operate, that goods stop in Serbia's space, that it is one of the rules of economy in Montenegro. I think that for this reason, the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia need to strengthen the control of the flow of goods. I would reach for one measure that is characteristic of the European Union countries, for those goods and for those industries, to charge taxes in Serbia, so if it comes out of the space of Serbia only then returns tax rates or returns customs duties. It is obvious that the profits of these enterprises from the Montenegro area are being kept at Montenegro's premises. Not to mention the part of the trade that works between Montenegro and Kosovo, regardless of the influence of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that there is an absolutely liberalised relationship between Montenegro and Kosovo and the Metohija, and it seems to me that an effort should be made to change this situation. I am talking, first of all, about excise goods, about goods of broad consumption, because I think the damage to the tax system of Serbia will continue to be high, because these types of importers and that part of the import lobby, it seems to me that there is still a large space for the transport of paper, the transport of goods and the uncontrollable export of capital from Serbia. It seems to me that Montenegro, as well as that part, were the generator of the external trade deficit of the Republic of Serbia to a significant extent. I don't see an action plan in which it can be resolved, except for the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or at the federal level, in another way, because it seems to me to remain unaffected by this harmonisation and I don't think that's good. Furthermore, I must say that this plan is in itself the beginning of harmonisation of relations, but I don't think it can be conditioned by large political issues, that the losses of the Serbian economy remain high on this basis, the external trade deficits are significant, that Montenegrin companies that have companies in Montenegro, but have exposures or "daughter companies" in Serbia or Belgrade, significant importers to major markets in Serbia, above all, and larger cities in Serbia. I have the impression, unless there's a real effort to stop it, that the losses on that plan will be extremely high.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31888	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31889	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has repeatedly warned almost countless times about the unacceptable pathway and the devastating results of the Constitutional Charter, the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, what new troubles this will bring to the economy and unity of the state community. This law, as well as other documents that we have received under the law and which have been presented to the Assembly for this item of the agenda on so on. Harmonisation of economic systems is a direct form of breaking up the unity of capital and economy. From the principle of these legal provisions which are subject to today's consideration, it is clear that there is neither the common market nor the freedom of movement of goods, people, services and capital. All these documents are a roadway with severe national, economic and democratic consequences for both countries, i.e. both republics, and do not contribute to our country's membership into the European Union, although so far this dosage authority has done everything to get us as far away from the European standards that are a condition for membership in the European Union, or for integration. For the past three years, the Serbian Radical Party has warned countless times that on existing grounds there is no approximation of Europe in that real and rational way, in a way that would not harm our economy and our country. I think that now, especially after the Athens summit, it is more than clear that Serbian radicals were right when they constantly warned that our country could not become an equal member of the European Union by destroying its economy, its country, by selling Serbs to The Hague and by doing other anti-economic and anti-democratic equilibrations. It should be underlined here that in the Thessaloniki Declaration, made up of old and new members of the European Union and Western Balkan countries, full co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which means working on all open issues, including the transfer of all war crimes indictees who should make progress without delay. It is now clearer why Javier Solana, after the signing of the Belgrade Agreement, has said "He is bringing Serbia-Montenegro a significant step closer to the European Union". That's what he said on 16 May 2002, and in light of the Athens summit, this statement and its sinister act on our space becomes a farce for the reversing and self-destruction of our community. The legislator of the Action Plan for Harmonisation of Economic Systems and other accompanying acts imposes economic improvisation that threatens to further destroy our economy and perspective on that basis. They condition a future membership in the European Union by adopting these acts, and they conceal and ignore the decisions of the Thessaloniki Declaration, whose content is clear and without any new promises. Once again in Porto Karas, the European Union has made it clear that Western Balkan countries will become members of the European Union once they meet the so-called. Copenhagen criteria, which are stable democratic institutions, which we still don't have, a rule of law, which we also don't have, respect for human and minority rights, which we have always had, a market economy and taking over all the obligations arising from membership. The Serbian Radical Party would warn the DOS this time to stop the abuses of our involvement in the European Union and with lies that this depends on their authority and on the affairs they persistently impose and fabricate. The people of Serbia are now more than clear that membership in the European Union needs economic and democratic preconditions, i.e. concrete results that cannot be guaranteed and ensured by harmonisation of economic systems, which are being proposed here today in the Assembly. These documents, as they look, are just moving us away from European and other integrations and world capital flows. The documents we are considering today create some normative preconditions that distance our country from the European Union and modern criteria of capital and development, creating insurmountable economic barriers by faster integration of our country into the European Union, the World Trade Organisation and other world organisations. The story of some feasibility study following the adoption of this harmonisation is one alibi practical for deepening the crisis between the two states in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The illusion imposed on this harmonisation led to a margin of authority from the Serbian Parliament, as the way the document was withdrawn was humiliating for MPs, and defeating them. I don't need to remind you, today I've already gone out to get the Rules of Procedure to advertise it. It's our own fault that the government no longer respects us. From the daily press, we were able to see that the European Commission in Brussels did not accept our harmonisation documents without putting such and similar documents on the agenda of its assembly. On June 20th, 2003, a meeting was held in Brussels dedicated to the method of harmonisation and there is an additional... I said he didn't accept it while the law was in the process, so he was withdrawn because the meeting was scheduled again in Brussels, and you gave us some additional material based on which we can draw some additional conclusions and you gave yourself a deadline in agreement with them that in the next three years, that is, after the end of that three-year period, you re-acquire what has not been agreed. Looking at the overall content of the tariff items proposed as harmonised, agreed with the assistance of the European Commission, the entirely incorrect claim that they have achieved the protection of the standards of the population and of one and the other members of the state community and the preservation of the economic potential above all. We should not forget that the two-year minus in 2001 and 2002 is somewhere around $7.38 billion, that this year's estimated to be more than $5 billion, that we have a decline in industrial production, a decline in living standards, employment and many other negative flows. We can only conclude that today's proposal for a harmonisation action plan creates conditions for unsustainable continuation and strengthening of the negative tendencies leading to further chaos in the overall crisis that exists in society, including the political crisis. (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes? Yes. The proposed tariff items definitely create import conditions for the destruction of production and exports of most industrial and agricultural products. When we look at customs rates for fertilizer, it's clear to everyone that we're saying goodbye to their production. It is also not known enough what the European Commission has ordered to do with 56 strategic agricultural products of Serbia, which are meat, sugar, edible oil, wheat, corn, flour, rye, oatmeal, etc. What is the connection with this sphere of the so-called harmonisation of the statement by the Minister of Economic Relations for Foreign Affairs of Montenegro Slavica Milacic, after returning from Brussels, that I am again quoting - the agreement between the government of Serbia-Montenegro and officials in Brussels on the abolition of quotas for imported agricultural products is a better solution than the previously established Action Plan on Harmonisation of Economic Relations, as quotas and other extra-tariff protection measures violate the principle of transparency and restrict trade freedom. That's what she said on June 28th, 2003. You could have read that in Politics. The Serbian Radical Party points out that this is exactly the measure and the best evidence that it is trying to achieve harmonisation between the two Member States, and in particular opening space and creating import conditions that will lead to a further flood on our foreign market and being an additional direct impulse to a negative external trade balance. The Serbian Radical Party is this way and thus asking the question of how and from which sources it is covered and, which is no less important, why do we contribute to this uncontrolled import chaos at customs rates, how do we oppose it? A special comment deserves perhaps the determination that electricity has a harmonised 0% rate; it is certain that modern events in the electricity sector and all that is happening in the EPS now have direct connections to this definition; the negative consequences can only be predicted, what they will really be, we will be able to do only after a certain period to determine and measure somehow. We've been asking the question for two years -- how do we import electricity, what is the role of Vuk Hamovic and others? We have also devoted several articles in our party's "Greater Serbia" list because we have nowhere else, since censorship is the government in Serbia and there is no room for Serbian radicals in any reports. What we think more daily press doesn't care, journalists, yes, but their chief editors obviously don't, so then everything we think about appearances in a socially printed party list in a limited circulation, and whoever comes under their hands, as we hear, is read from hand to hand, people can get acquainted with many phenomena and consequences of these phenomena. We also warn that electricity is not contributing to harmonisation in the field, but jointly destroys this vital complex and potential, primarily Serbia. The proposed customs rates, several hundred tariff codes that we have, inevitably contribute to the continuation of practice and greater enforcement of customs-border activities between Serbia and Montenegro, which do not know the countries of the European Union among themselves, and here a representative of the Government told us otherwise - that administrative borders will not be moved after the adoption of this action plan. So it is not difficult to conclude that the very objectives of today's proposal, which our parliament is considering, are not harmonisation, but the fastest way towards breaking together and destroying production potentials, above all, Serbia. These and other undeniable reasons are in favor of the assessment that the work done is an echo, with no economic - social justification, chaotic and partial, in one word unsuitable, wrong and unscrupulous. Of course, we will not be able to support this bill for the reasons I have already cited and which my colleagues will complete in the debate, through the three amendments that we have submitted to the bill, but above all because this law will reflect negatively on the balance of payments that will arise, and thus cause pressure on the prices of the foreign reserve and the exchange rate of the dinar. The negative effects of this law will reflect, I'm sure, and on the budget, on certain economic branches, not to mention, we'll have opportunities in further discussion through amendments to make it concrete, not to waste time on it now. Montenegro has also, in our view, protected all its individual goods that it produces in the process of harmonisation, a conclusion that is imposed, while the Serbian negotiating party has failed at all or failed to manage to take care of vital domestic production, including successful businesses in the private sector, and those who have already embarked on restructuring. As the increase in protection of products from Montenegro will affect Serbia's economy, some industries, it is already a special story, for those involved in the profession. We could do something in this sense, especially when it comes to aluminum or iron and steel, to assume, but the general impression is that the negotiating side of the government of the Republic of Serbia has failed in these negotiations to protect the vital interests of the Republic of Serbia and the economy of the Republic of Serbia, especially in those branches that I have listed, and especially for those products such as meat, flour, oatmeal, wheat, etc., and that surely these adverse consequences will reflect at the end and on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. For all these reasons, Serbian Radical Party MPs will not support this bill and we will not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31890	Before we finish the morning part of the session, notice that the session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be held today in the break room of one on the ground floor. I'm setting a break. The first registered speaker in the afternoon is MP Miodrag Stamenkovic. Thank you. [[After break - 15.25]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session in the afternoon. Please, in order to determine the quorum needed to work, insert your identification cards into the parliamentary voting units. I understand we have a quorum to work with. The word is from MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31892	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that there are none of the actors and promoters of this law we're discussing today, because I have serious objections, in the good part, but let's go in line. The New Serbia MP group warned at the very beginning when we started discussing this country, that is, when we talked about the starting basis for writing the Constitutional Charter, we warned that the state we are forming is totally dysfunctional and that Serbia will cost a lot. We didn't vote for the basics, we didn't vote for the other documents either. However, we did not make a cheap story out of it, so that we are loudly talking about Serbia's independence programme, and we are including ourselves wherever we can, in order to minimise as much damage as possible from that country as possible, as it is. Unfortunately, the last few weeks, in the course of talks on the action programme, in the press, and in the discussions of our managers, there has been no thesis at all, and that is, if we ladies and gentlemen join the European Union, and the European Union Commission has given itself six months to study the feasibility of this action programme, whether anyone in this country has taken seriously our feasibility study and how much it will cost us such a step. A week ago, a brief article appeared, where Governor Dinkic on the fifth side of a magazine in the middle of three rows said it would cost us about 300 million dollars. Well done, Governor Dinkic. But I don't know how much he knows about banking, and the economy obviously doesn't know anything, it'll cost us a lot more. And the propo of these that domination, just to quote one document of the Serbian government, which is the programme of the ministry's foreign relations reform, on page 17, is said: since we previously had a process of liberalisation of the foreign trade regime, with the average customs rate reduced to 9.5%, the same programme said that the customs rate is one of the lowest for all countries in the environment and that it places the SRJ in the Balkan area farthest away in the process of liberalisation of foreign trade. What was the price of this liberalisation of the foreign trade regime? In the same material, something lower is said - generally observed in the past period, market liberalisation has been followed by the removal of some internal price distributions, leading to a large number of negative effects and increased business costs, economic losses have increased. The trade deficit has increased. Then that review we all know is given, so that from October 5th to today we have an external trade deficit of $8.5 billion, which Serbia has not had since the beginning. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister this morning at the Finance Committee, when I asked him if the average customs rates in the new agreed programme were known, he said - 7.5%. That's another 2% down there. Can you imagine how much for the national economy is 1% off of the protection customs? First of all, for an economy that's completely unprepared. What kind of business do we have? In early 2002, there was a light at the end of the tunnel, economic growth started, the privatisation process started, and everything seemed a little pinker. However, in the second half of 2002, we have a sharp decline of interest in privatisation, the privatised companies have not produced any effect, and the main effect should have been the growth of production. And over the course of this year, we have even, and I could say, a drastic decline in production and in the first three months of 6.4%, and at five months it's ironed to 3.7%. In this year, we certainly won't achieve the growth of a 5% gross social product that is necessary for us to be able to service our debts. You know what debts are like. Now, on top of that, there's another burden coming on such an unprepared economy, an arrest that's only by some percentage, and not to say that it's more effective if it's done by privatization, we're taking down customs rates. No one was damaged, everyone was satisfied. I didn't intend to discuss it any longer, but the vice president irritated me with one statement today, which probably followed my discussion on the Finance Committee here, for this speaker, said that ours was specially protected. Now I'm going to tell you what a miserable protection that is. In the structure of our not only textile, but complete production, complete industry, we have few finalisers and many large capacities which, if they are in the form of combinations, do not make final products. When it comes to textiles, of 125,000 textile workers, 80,000 workers work in segments; although they are huge enterprises, they do not finalise finished products in the form of finished clothing items, but they finalise the yarn and fabric. These are precisely products that, according to these now harmonised customs rates, fall to the lowest level, up to 5%. The answer was, and why would we repromatter, and the yarn and the fabric are now repromaterial, protecting, so we only protect the finalisers. Do you know which finalizers we're protecting? Here's another document and a report from the Chamber of Commerce. I don't want to read you any other items. You've had enough of "Todor" from Vrnjaka Banja. During 2002, he imported three million 707,000 dollars, exported a million and $280,000: a negative balance of two and a half million. Typical finalizer. We'll protect them like that. That's why we're going to put out our primary industrial production, now I'm talking about textiles, I guarantee you, with this kind of protection, not giving it a chance to restructure. I'm not in the mood for an unlimited protection, but all customs rates that are consistent with textiles to come into force in August. Our industry is completely unprepared. (President: Are you using the next 10 minutes? I'll use the next 10 minutes. Couldn't we have given textiles two years to catch air, to privatize, to restructure what could be privatized, which is why it needs to be. It's not the textile branch of this economy and this country, ladies and gentlemen, and it's not the textile perspective in Korea, China and Turkey. And I'm not saying anything about that, so here's the information. "District Carti" - one of the most important industrial zones in the region - Emilia - Romanja in Italy. There are 1,871 companies in the industrial zone, where they are exclusively tricots. With 10,430 employees, it produces a billion and 143m euros. Only the industrial zone exports 359m euros. In that industrial zone, finalisers can't function unless there's a "Pate" next to them. Why? Because that's where the ones we're shutting down right now, like "Letex" from Leskovec and all the others who need to be the backbone for forming industrial zones because they're producing repromatter. Therefore, unfortunately, this country disowns one industrial branch. It's thrown into the trash, 125,000 people, and it's going to survive some confectors and some tricotazers, but the cluster of industry that should be the backbone of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, it's just the period ahead, it's going to be very fast with a lock. By the way, this government is under the impression that it's not communicating with itself. I don't have time to tell you about the data, what the Ministry of Science, Technology and Economic Development wrote in the industrial development strategy, what was done in different strategies, it has nothing to do with this law today. This government is acting like we don't have any general strategy and we don't know what we want tomorrow. One more thing, I think it reflects the essence of not only this law, but completely our reforms. Today, Minister Djelic told the Finance Committee that our law, i.e. the action programme, has an operational-technology level. That's right. What's the point? It seems that the Serbian government's problem is that part, which is more than half of Serbia's jobless, poor, debt-stricken, works or doesn't work in firms ahead of the liquidation. Imagine luck if there wasn't that part. We could go to Europe tomorrow. If we were to carry out the operational-technology part, or the law level everywhere, that part as a cancer wound you cut off and discard. But where are the people? Our reforms already resented the lack of human beings. We are not a socialist society, but we are a society in such problems that we cannot ignore the social component. I don't know, but it seems that some of them weren't looking from the window the other day when a bunch of people were warning, that we had to turn to people and their problems, otherwise the transparents would be left with nothing but sticks, but seen.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31893	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31894	Ladies and gentlemen, the other day I got like all of you a bunch of paper, a thick list of everything inside, which I didn't read. It was clear to me that if the printed textbooks were from that paper, then many poor children would get at least one book for free. That's our reality, but for me the only thing that's normal, which is if we have a state called Serbia-Montenegro, it's that customs is paid only at the external borders, and there's no customs in it. Since this is not what the current government in Montenegro wants, we have nowhere else to go but to act in such a way as to make some arrangements, customs regulations. What comes to me and to all of you was a recent good article in "Politics" what that administrative customs line looks like. Administrative customs line, it's a real state border. It's nice to describe what's going on there, how long it's waiting for a truck of goods to pass, how customs are charged, and when a man shows a document that he paid customs somewhere in Serbia, how some freighters are charged, etc. services. It's simply said you have to pay for a favor like that. People don't know why to pay for it. So the thing is far more serious than when we look at it together like this. I'll follow this debate and I'll probably vote for this bill. I will decide whether to vote, but I will probably vote only because of two people, and that is Mitsunovic and Kostunica, who sincerely wanted this country to form and if it can be maintained. In doing so, significant deviations have been made since the Belgrade Agreement. The Constitutional Charter itself and the law on its application have failed the spirit of the Belgrade Agreement. Some even give up their signatures, etc. The two politicians are still trying to keep that state going, to develop if it can, that one day there might be some harmonisation that I think customs are only paying at the external borders. However, if there is no change in government in Montenegro, our chances are very weak in the proposal, because Montenegrin current politicians do not hide what their ultimate goal is. And if there's no change there, they'll probably achieve that goal and it'll all fall into the water, and we've done it all for nothing, but like I said, it's our reality, we've got nowhere to go, we'll try and figure out how it ends up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31895	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is that it is best that such a legal proposal has never been found in the Serbian parliament, to talk about it. Because, in any case, it produces two negative consequences; one is political and the other is economic. This political is that Montenegro, with such laws, is rounding its state system, its secessionist policy, and, if we can't stop it, I don't see any reason why we're helping it, to create another Serbian state. The other consequence of economic nature, which also has its weight and its consequences, all of what the promoter wrote, all the way to this part -- the area of harmonisation, the third title, and what is actually harmonized, is hiding from the real one. The real reason for a law like this is customs. I listened here to Mr. Jovanovic, Deputy Prime Minister, and I'm surprised that the Deputy Prime Minister can talk this sort of thing about his economy, his economy and his workers and citizens whose interests he is obliged to protect. First, a statement that the state will no longer protect producers who cannot finance themselves with their customs policies, but are supported in a certain way by constant donations and donations from the budget. In that case, as a member of the government, he does not accept his own personal responsibility for the situation -- why is that so, so he listed that agriculture and industry -- the IMR, the "dragon", the engine industry DMB, etc. I have to say, one of the reasons for that is the policy you're running. You gave up our markets where we were present for decades and turned to the Western market, where we have nothing to look for. Our industries aren't compatible, they're way ahead of us on that. We are left with countries of the former Soviet Union, countries of the Middle East, which you have declared hostile, fundamentalistic, there is China, which you have also given up, meant for our economy and industry a significant market, on which we could work. I am also surprised by his statement in the textile industry; so he says - we will no longer protect their high prices in the textile industry, when import textiles are much cheaper. Yes, Mr. Jovanovic, but yet you have your share of responsibility. We understood each other well. Ask yourself first why the price of domestic textiles is higher. It's bigger because our capacities work with 10-15% of real and it's normal that the costs for such small production are enormously high. It's that problem that simply our economy doesn't know what to do with market surpluses, then it doesn't produce them, there's a pile of commitments, payouts to workers. You know it's very difficult today to reduce labour in social enterprises that are privatizing, etc. And yet I must say, the other part of responsibility is from where the state does not grant subsidies to exporting companies. And that foreign textile is cheaper because the country from which it encourages pays its manufacturer to take it anywhere. That's right, don't nod. I remember from the time before the wars and these ugly things that old SFRY paid 5% of the premium for every item that was exported. Yes, it is. And you don't pay anything. Or, if nothing else, they had at least tax breaks on profit tax, so that the profit achieved by export does not go to the basics of taxation. And this government, so the only priority is to talk and represent the people that are improving democracy, how we go to the European Union, how we push into it, and basically blur things out in front of our own public and avoid our own responsibility for what happens to our economy. We can't expect to live like a lon of states, so we're importing raw materials, making a finished product and exporting it out. The only thing left to do is produce domestic raw materials, a domestic final product, that's what fills the budget, Mr. Jovanovic, not loans. This is what gives the people standards, not promises for the European Union, and one such law can only tell you that Montenegro has received the maximum of what it asked for, and that Serbia has achieved a minimum of what should not have been realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31897	The word has a folk MP, Zeljo Huric, followed by Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31898	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, when it comes to this action programme for harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's economic relations, there is really no dilemma with me: on my part, it will get maximum support. But when it comes to implementing everything that's been said here, I have an obligation, and at the same time I feel the need to say some things, since I'm a man from that very border area, so someone who's personal and also through what the citizens are telling me is very well aware of everything that's going on. So, it's what Professor Simonovic said, the administrative-carinian line. You all know that it is installed in the village of Brodarevo and, which is particularly difficult, right in that most urban part of the village, so on the very road, where both on the one hand and on the other, close to that road are houses at a very small distance. The streets leading towards these houses were connected with the main route and when setting up the administrative customs line the sidewalks were broken, asphalt also moved, both on the right and on the left is macadam, which makes life of nearby citizens significantly difficult and complicated. Trucks that stop creating clouds to the sky, something similar to what I read, and according to the Croatian border, there is no wet knot. There's a lot going on in that long wait, so citizens' approach is very uncomfortable, not to say extremely difficult. So, Mr. Vice President, I appeal, I am obliged, I have a request from a larger group of citizens, 200 of them signed, they handed it over in the form of some petition, although I realized from talking to them that they didn't realize it anyway, they didn't want to, but they were looking, really justifiable, for this administrative customs line to be dislocated. A team before it requires no large funds, on the one hand, and on the other hand there are really far better conditions in the immediate vicinity of that place; it is a neighbouring place, which is four to five kilometers from Brodarev, according to the border of Montenegro, called Gostun and believe it has extremely better conditions than that place itself. If I didn't, that's why this is the purpose of my address to you, so I'd like to appeal once again, Mr. Vice President, to do everything possible on your part to resolve this issue, and that problem and the question of those citizens is once removed from the agenda, so that there are and what good conditions for it. All it takes is a little goodwill. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31899	The word has a folk MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31900	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Vice President, are breaking up about the Action Plan, I would say, continue today. It was withdrawn from the government's decision procedure, a legislative proposal, by correspondence in the government itself between the Vice-President and the Government's secretary, again in the assembly procedure, which indicates enough that it is now clear that the roles of the Government and Parliament have been changed, and that the government has, in fact, taken the role of Parliament. As this session was called for, for which we did not receive material, we MPs from the interior, so it continues today, and we do not have definitive material again, valid and agreed, about which we can conduct a qualified debate, because changes are possible during the day. It just proves that the government and the negotiating team don't care to hear the opinions and reactions of the businessmen on this action plan. If the government cared about this, it would, instead of today's accelerated debate, allow businesses, MPs, to at least hear through regional chambers of commerce the opinion of the businessmen on whose behalf this alignment is being conducted, and whose head it will finally be raised. Negotiators from the government as if the only goal was to make papers. What negative consequences will make these signed and approved documents for Serbia's economy in the assembly home appear to be of no interest to anyone. Gentlemen of the DOS, Europe is certainly looking for papers, but implementing papers that will bring Serbia's economy closer to Europe, not papers that will speed up its decline because of its content, as will certainly happen when we adopt this action plan. The title and content of the document to be adopted today seems to have fooled political leaders that it can quickly enter the garden of prosperity and the privileges Europe offers. We who have started the working century and worked for more than 30 years in a successful economy know well what negotiation and negotiation is, and all this must ultimately be crowned with good business results. With this document that we are to adopt today, we are certainly not going to get to that basic goal, but we are going to get away from it more and more quickly, and even go backwards from the starting point, because I am sure that, despite the effort that has been put into this document, there are many party interests in both sides, much more unacceptable concessions by the incomparably stronger Serbian sides, so this very burdens this document. It has been proven that Thessaloniki was not to be or not to be, as it was said last week for Serbia-Montenegro. It is not the dates that are crucial to produce the necessary document to present ourselves to Europe, but its content. The Thessaloniki could have been the beginning of Serbia's Europeanisation, but by this document it wasn't, so I'm afraid that even after all, Rome or another Italian city, when they take over from Athens, they're not some new strategy that Europe is going to ask us to change this paper that we're about to adopt today. To make another serious principle comment on this paper that we're adopting today. What will fellow Members of Parliament and you, Mr Jovanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and fellow MPs think about how one day Europe, including the Constitutional Court of Serbia, will react to this document, if adopted by this House with 126 or 128 votes, and the document, which remains as a permanent document in the Assembly archive, will be crucial to your vote, the voice of the second Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Kasa or Minister Sabic, etc. Imagine, you were the chief negotiator for this document and your vote has a crucial impact on its adoption. It will be a very interesting opinion of the above-mentioned evaluators of this act, not to mention another congregation majority to be made in this home, even next year. The third principle question, and I want, if possible, the vice president to answer -- will tomorrow, when this plan is adopted today, we reopen the principle debate on this document? Now something quite concrete, as time allows. I'm really surprised there hasn't been a single word here from the president of the Republic Chamber of Commerce to agree on the rate of customs duties for the leather and footwear industry. It is also known to the Chambers and the president that the rates of customs duties that were in force in both Serbia and Montenegro were very low, from 1% to 3%, and the Chamber agreed them on a much higher level, to protect the skin and shoes industry as a branch with a convincing lowest standard and per income in the country. They are in the Chamber at 18 to 22% level. The 15% customs rate, which we are to adopt today for the leather and footwear industry, is significantly lower than that agreed in the Chamber, and is even below the level for the European Union, which is 17%. If we adopt the proposed 15% rate, I think you, Mr. Vice President, and the Government, as a negotiating team, and we as a Assembly, will significantly compromise the interests of the skin industry and shoes. I am sure that the European Union did not specifically require us to lower the rate of customs of the leather and footwear industry below 17%, how valid the rates within the European Union are. When it comes to reducing customs rates in general, which are present in this action plan, it must be noted that, if they are accepted in such amounts, the annual loss of customs revenues at the level of the Republic will be 100 to 130 million dinars per year, which will significantly reduce the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget and will certainly reflect the country's external trade balance. Since I come from Leskovec, the city of textiles, cosmetics, pharmacies and metals, I must also state that these branches of industries that, apart from textiles, were bearers of the development of Leskovec for the whole 30 years before, this action plan was not sufficiently seen, i.e. They're negatively observant. The reduction of textile customs duties, as well as the discrepancies between the customs rates for raw materials and finished products in the metal complex, will negatively affect this part of the wood export industry, as further exports of ploughs, connected land-processing machines and laminated lime in "Lemind" and the Plant of Plastified Lims are at stake. In textiles, however, the reduction of customs duties will only increase competition from imports, and will not in due course force textiles on faster exports, as the long-term sanctions markets are lost, so the return to them is a painful job, which requires both time and a lot of cost, and the textiles so far have no money for this accelerated job. The notion of stimulation for exports, which is necessarily present throughout the European Union for a number of industrial branches, is something that does not exist for now, and this will certainly be a serious obstacle for a number of industries and a series of industrial branches in our country, starting with textiles, to the processing of agricultural products. That, as the most drastic example, only those products of the woody food industry that contain sugar, which are not stimulated at all. Unfortunately, due to the shortness of time, I am not in a position to make this clear to the end, but I am sure that my countrymen from Poreč - Wolf and Tomak - Leskovac must understand me well and agree with me, because these are the attitudes that I express on their behalf. For these few reasons that will continue to collapse Serbian economy, the SPS will certainly not be for this action plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31901	The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, the DSS parliamentary group. The following is MP Milos Lukic, a member of the Soviet Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31902	The President-in-Office, respected fellow MPs, the Action Plan and the law on its implementation should be the final document of the process of building Serbia-Montenegro's state union and, more importantly, the initial document, i.e. the initial plan for our accession process to the European Union. The importance of this document is great and therefore this atmosphere in which it is being passed, as well as everything that follows this law in the Serbian Parliament is not good. There should have been more seriousness and given greater importance to this law in the Serbian Parliament, especially since the whole process, as we can see, is not over. I will remind myself of the legal procedure, i.e. I am the course of this law in Parliament. We received the first law and action plan in the first version, together with customs tariffs and certain information, government regulations in the first section ten days ago, and it was seen that there are many irregularities, which the European Union, or the Commission of the European Union, has normally noticed. There has been a request to withdraw, and after that abandonment of that requirement, a justly technical error and what is most important today, we have received three documents: the minutes from the government's June 26th meetings, from the Serbian and Montenegrin governments' meetings in the form of a proposal, and we do not see that this is the conclusion, but the minutes from the meeting in the form of the proposal. What is strange is that we also received amendments to the DOS of 30 June, related to the very minutes, i.e. the proposal for conclusions from the Serbian and Montenegrin government meetings, and the end of the action plan in the second version, which includes the DOS amendment in the second version. It's a unique case so far that we're getting a law with already included amendments. I don't know if it was a technical mistake or if it was intended to give up the amendment. We have two options: that an action plan has been withdrawn and that we have received a new version of the action plan after the Serbian-Governmental government meetings and the possibility of having the first version of the action plan, including the DOS amendment, which we will discuss and vote for them. It is likely to be adopted, at least our opinion, the Democratic Party of Serbia, that this is a step forward from the first version. There's something wrong. It remains questionable whether an amendment can be changed as the action plan itself is not the law. The law is what's given in three points and it's not controversial, but the action plan is the addition of the law itself. What is also controversial in the DOS amendments is probably the position of the Serbian government, and may I remind you that on June 30th, they were admitted to the National Assembly, so Chapter 4 is said in Part III. The planned harmonisation measures, paragraph 37, are amended and read: "In the field of relations with the European Union by 20 June 2003, the Action Plan will be adopted in the legal form". So, the amendments say the action plan in the legal form will be adopted in the Serbian Parliament, the Montenegrin Parliament and the common state by June 20th. (Kedomir Jovanovic: July. June. (Kedomir Jovanovic: printing error. I'm not sure it's a mistake, but it shows the speed this is given. Tonight we have a meeting with the European Union and since there have been major changes in the Action Plan itself, I do not believe that we are discussing today the final version of the Action Plan. The Action Plan itself has its parts related to certain liberalisation regarding the flow of people, goods, services and capital. He is good in his form and it is seen to have been given as a domestic task of the European Union. There are also certain things that have been done so far, and these things are not even related to the action plan itself, and above all to the area of free flow of people, or even capital, while those things that have yet to be done are given with certain long-term deadlines. So, for example, we have these deadlines for three years, and it's even said that by the end of the year, a strategy will be adopted to coordinate certain things, for example, related to the flow of capital. Point 77 states: "The money market area will be established by 31 December 2003 as a common coordination strategy". Listen to what it sounds like -- a common coordination strategy will be established by December 31st. So six months will be necessary for a common strategy. The direction is good, strengthening the common state, but speed is controversial. A greater effort was needed by the government of Montenegro and the government of Serbia, and above all by the government of Serbia, because, as we know, the government of Serbia is the DOS, which in its pre-election principles had the preservation of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, which is normally not the case with the government of the Democratic Party of Socialists, and we as MPs of the Serbian Parliament, and above all our government, had to make greater efforts to make this action plan tighter and faster. Obviously, this is what the European Union is helping us to do, and that's a good thing. It is a good thing we are finally on a strategic definition, on a common line with the European Union. It's a good thing we heard today that all parliamentary parties are for Serbia's accession to the European Union. It means that we, as the Serbian Parliament, have a consensus on this, but again I say that the bad thing is this dynamic that doesn't give hope that things will go the way they're supposed to. Regarding certain parts and areas regulated by the Action Plan, I would like to point out that the most important thing was the economy. In addition, the part about social activities has been given, and above all, in the area of free flow of people. These are things that are acceptable, not controversial. There is only one problem left that was inherited from earlier, which is that we now have a more liberal situation in the labour market than on the flow of goods between Serbia and Montenegro, but that is the inherited situation. The most important thing is about Serbia-Montenegro's economic coordination, meaning what has already been said in public, about customs, customs rates and what is most important, and what is particularly addressed in these changes to the action plan, that is, the issue of the administrative line, or the customs line between Serbia and Montenegro. It is indisputable that we, as a country, were late in transition and that we had an extremely high level of customs protection until the change of 2000. Later, in 2001, we had quite a liberalised issue of customs duties, decreased customs rates and were somewhere at 9.4%, i.e. some level that was in 2001. On the other hand, the separation of its customs service to Montenegro has reached an extremely low level of protection, i.e. an extremely low level of customs rates in general and is practically among the lowest in Europe, especially the lowest in the surrounding countries. But Montenegro, on the other hand, had an extremely outdated protection mechanism, which is a system of contingents and quotas, so it was certainly not an easy job to harmonise these two systems, one liberal in terms of how customs were calculated, such as Serbian, but with a high level of customs protection, and another quasi-free, where they were small customs protection, but with an extremely outdated system of quotas and contingents. In this action plan, Montenegro has tried to protect 56 products of the strategic commitment to Montenegro and, above all, food products, by retaining quotas and contingents, and I don't know how the government of Montenegro could allow it to go ahead of the European Union with such a plan. Normally, the Serbian government had to remove it from that first version of the action plan, because it is really inadmissible to stick to the contingent system. Namely, the government of Montenegro has given these 56 products to be imported under current tariffs with a quota and contingent system, and when quotas are met in a year, it then moves to that unique customs rate in line with Serbia. The reason for the protection of the standards of the domestic population does not stand, because the standard is not protected in such a way, it is possible to do so by increasing customs duties, in this case it was an increase in customs duties on these products, and the dedicated spending of the funds obtained through the collection of customs duties to target subsidies for these food products. Now the new solution given under the pressure of the European Union to exempt these products from harmonised customs duties is one of the amendments that says these goods will continue to have different customs duties by the end of three plus two years. That's not good, because I think in that field, it was supposed to be more insistent and at least go with shorter deadlines. The fact is, and I am fully aware that these are products that are important to Serbia's economy. When it comes to food products, a certain level of protection was needed. There are around 5-6% of customs duties removed, from 30% to 24-25%, depending on the product, but could have gone with another percentage of the decrease, but that we have single customs duties, because that would lead to a greater volume of trade between Serbia and Montenegro. It's so uncertain how much that store is still going to live on. A particularly important thing is what colleagues have already said, he set a concrete example of his colleague Huric, about the customs line, the administrative line. She's not directly related to the action plan. It, unfortunately, as such a reflection of loyalty and has already been introduced into the Belgrade Agreement. But the whole story that the European Union has imposed on us as Serbia-Montenegro is that the customs line is unsustainable, that the common state cannot have it. It must have taken more courage and more to advocate even in the period of adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on Implementation to reach a solution to the single customs, however, this has not been done. The European Union is now continuing to insist on this and is seeking to strengthen the joint office, i.e. the office of Serbia-Montenegro customs offices. The fact is that customs between Serbia and Montenegro do not exist, however, the administrative procedure for the transfer of goods between Serbia and Montenegro is inadmissible, especially given the relatively small market for Montenegro compared to Serbia and the administration for the transfer, the export of goods, for trade with Montenegro, is extremely large, the cost of the expedition and the rest, so that surely, when these negotiations continue, and I think they are certainly continuing, it will be necessary for the Serbian delegation to insist on the full abolition of the administrative line for the flow of goods. It is unacceptable to give such solutions as are given in the amendments, which do not clearly state that this administrative limit will be abolished. A lot of the public has also been said about the fiscal effects of the action plan, however, there will be a reduction in customs-based revenues, but one country that is to enter the European Union, and a world trade organisation, which must have its small economy liberalised, certainly cannot expect that fiscal revenues based on customs are something that will be significant for the budget. On the other hand, I think critics of that part of the action plan, especially those who come from the ranks of the signatories of the Belgrade Agreement, are absolutely wrong and that part cannot be an argument for not adopting the Action Plan. There are other arguments that suggest that the Action Plan should not be adopted. What is the problem, I think, is that the European Union should insist, although it may be too late, I suppose it will be said about it, it is a failure to comply with Serbia-Montenegro's tax system. In fact, Montenegro is in front of something, and it's late in something. She thus came up with the idea of introducing value added tax on April 1st. It is not disputed that the value added tax should introduce all countries that are not, that is only Serbia-Montenegro, that is, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo, but whether it should have been so hasty, as we know Serbia will introduce the VAT as of 1 January 2004. On the other hand, Montenegro has some anachronisms such as the accounting and payment service, it is unique in Europe with the para-state institution, so we cannot talk about some liberalisation of the government of Montenegro. There are a lot of technical problems on this issue, especially when crossing goods from Serbia to Montenegro, and vice versa, when crossing goods from Montenegro to Serbia, because goods coming from Serbia to Montenegro are automatically taxed on the basis of value added tax, while these goods from Montenegro practically enter as a re-promaterial, so later in the final phase they charge sales taxes. Also, that part requires harmonisation. All in all, the Action Plan is going in the right direction. Like I said, I don't think this is the final version, and I hope we have a better version tonight and the next few days. That's why I don't think this action plan should have been discussed today and that it should have been withdrawn from the agenda, to wait and to adopt the final version. The final version would be better and likely for her, the Democratic Party of Serbia, hypothetically, would have reason to vote. This version isn't enough yet. We are in favour of preserving the common state, and in this direction we will do everything possible to get a better document, as I said, action plan and a starting document for our accession to the European Union, it is also the crown of efforts to preserve the common state and therefore it needs to be more efficient and enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31903	The word has been made by MP Milos Lukic, a parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party. The following is MP Milorad Mircic, a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, declared as saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31904	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, we have before us an action plan to harmonise the economic system of the Member States, the state union of Serbia and Montenegro, in order to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital. The very name of this plan speaks a lot and imposes a number of questions. The first question is, what are we adopting? One seemingly simple question, but the answer must be difficult to find, because it is about harmonising relations between the two members of the state community. The answer to this question is hidden somewhere in events from a year ago when the Belgrade Agreement was made, when we were actually deceived in Serbia and when we were told that we were still living in a country. Montenegrins know what they're doing, they know where they live, they live in their independent state, they act that way, they protect their interests and they do it in a very principled and good way. We are again in a situation where we have to negotiate with them, as with someone outside this community, and on the other hand, to hold them as our own, to rock them in the lap, to cultivate them, to pet them, and to see that we don't anger them, not to go away, don't give God like all those before them from this community. What exactly is harmony? Is it possible to harmonize Serbia-Montenegro's economic system? These systems are so different that this expression is very unskilled, since it is almost impossible to harmonize these two systems. What Montenegro needs to protect with customs and excise duties. What are their products? What products are known on the European market? What is it they're famous for, and after all, on our market? On the other hand, one important question arises: What is their interest in protecting what we produce, in pushing for our work to be valued, in our economy to work and to create an surplus from whom both this country and this people will live? When it comes to harmonisation, it is divided into several areas and at first glance it looks very acceptable, and it is about areas of work and employment, then health and education. However, when you look a little bit better, we have the harmonisation of regulations, the harmonisation of standards, the harmonisation of practices, etc. We don't have that kind of co-operation in these areas. When it comes to work and employment, it is about harmonising regulations; when it comes to health care, basic and secondary education, as well as higher education, too. But there's something between the ranks that most of you probably didn't notice, when it comes to education, we have unconditional flow of users of student and student standards. You remember very well that we had a very heated discussion here, in this assembly, and in the media, when it came to the obligation to receive Montenegrin students under the same conditions to live, under privileged conditions to enjoy privileges in Serbia. We've been offered to do it on the basis of reciprocity. At that time, the Ministry of Education and the Government established the criteria that Serbia can study under these privileged conditions as many students and students and high school students as ours in Montenegro. Now in this way it is deleted and said, unconditional flow of users services to student and student standards. That's how I interpreted it. If I'm wrong, you deny me. When it comes to the free flow of goods, it is the regulation of the procedure of crossing goods across the existing customs line. The very expression - the customs line, and everything that happens in Brodarevo, is something that must be spoken of openly, something that, according to those who cross that border with various goods and who try as passengers to cross that border, is actually one of the hardest borders in Europe. I wouldn't say any dramatic examples, but it's an example of putting a vehicle under a customs seal at the border, and if that goods are unloaded in several places in Montenegro, there's a lot of shipping to be paid everywhere, they're being re-dispensed, customs, etc. Those people who export to Montenegro and those who drive that goods certainly earn less than those Montenegrin officials who simply fill out a few forms and take you, for God's sake, big money. When it comes to the harmonisation of the customs procedure, then the definition of the joint procedure, i.e. the procedure that should be uniform, there would be nothing to add or subtract. In fact, this whole procedure should be unique for the community of states, not for each country individually. When it comes to the mention of a single customs protection, it's a question I'm going to explain to you on a drastic occasion. It is that goods produced in Serbia-Montenegro should be protected in the same way. I'll try one case to prove it's not the same. We have an example, say, of concrete iron that appears in annex 13 and concrete iron that appears in annex 17. In fact, we have an example that the concrete iron produced in the nickel iron mill, which is 10 to 14 mm, is protected by 18% customs and concrete iron that is valid in Serbia, for example in the Jagodina cable factory, with only 1% customs protection. It is discrimination that brings absolutely no benefit to the Montenegrins, because they don't actually produce this product, but it does us great harm. In Appendix 17, you have a hot-rolled concrete wire, and a customs rate of 18% is foreseen, and see annex 13, page 155, where you have hot-rolled concrete iron up to 8 mm, which is imported from the Association of Independent States and is actually charged only with a 1% tax. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: It is a second product. ) It's the same product. I'm going to ask the Deputy Prime Minister to clear this up. I'm sure in this case the same product appears in two different places under a different name. It's absolutely the same product. There's Mr. Shabic a little bit more in the matter and he'll be able to help. It's the exact same product with different rates. I'm telling you one more time, if the rate in the annex 13 applies, the strawberry rolling stock is actually going to be in a subordinate position. Not to mention further repercussions, which are raw materials prices for that concrete iron on the Ukrainian market, and from there it is mainly imported. It's about recklessness, but I have a very specific proposal to delete this in Appendix 13 and apply Appendix 17, where it says: a wire hot-rolled for concrete 18% of customs and imports from the Association of Independent States. So absolutely for the same species, 14 mm and less, means 6 mm to 14 mm. This is an example where practically one interpretation can protect domestic production. It's that a large number of workers will be employed, our market will have high-quality concrete iron and some production costs will be covered here and these people will have something to live on. The question is quite serious, and we can talk about it. It's a mistake that's been subdued in writing these attachments. I note once again, the interests of Serbia-Montenegro firms are not opposed and they are complemented, as Montenegrin firms produce larger profiles, and smaller profiles are produced in Serbia. It's just one example. In any case, it is unfortunate that we are talking about harmonising the economic system and economic relations between the two states, as if they were two independent entities. Maybe someone, like the vice president of the government, should have the courage to come out and say that we still have an illusion about this common state here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31905	The word has the People's MP Milorad Mircic, and the following is MP Zoran Angelkovic, a parliamentary group of SPS, declared for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31906	The action plan is just a continuation of what started with the Constitutional Charter, and even when it comes to the personal composition. Here we see a name that has recently been devoid of DOS - Serbia's Reform, called Miroljub Labus, who was sitting here when the Constitutional Charter was adopted. Then he praised the Constitutional Charter and its advantages. The full mouth was praised for this action plan, and now that the DOS dumped him, or when, by someone's order, formed that "gay 17," now attacks this action plan. It's the best proof of how good this document is when it's being attacked by the creator. The fact that Cedomir Jovanovic, as the newly elected Deputy Prime Minister, is a force of opportunity. He's a man, not guilty, not in debt, trying to save what he can save. The basic foundations were struck by Miroljub Labus and his "gay 17 plus". These were the basics of all negotiations. It was then said that there were two separate markets, two customs and two coins. So that Mladjan Dinkic would now rip his hair only on the media, that the Central Bank of Montenegro does not allow business banks from Serbia to work. It's part of the deal. Nowhere in these mutual agreements has it been mentioned that the same importance can be found on Montenegro's dinar market, such as the euro's valid currency on the Serbian market. That's what they agreed. What about this action plan now? Before the Thessaloniki conference could be interpreted as a wise political move, as Serbia's will, Serbia's maximum will to meet Montenegro, in line with the nadal charter to preserve the single market as much as possible. It is only until the Thessaloniki Conference, where it has been made clear, DOS gentlemen, thanks to your democratic authority only in 2013 we have a chance to apply for entry into the European Union. You bid on each other, when Prime Minister Zivkovic says 2007, and another government member named or named Zarko Korac then says, no - 2013. It's too insecure. After the Thessaloniki Conference, after a meeting in Thessaloniki, it had to be sat down, this opportunity had to be used to say before the European Council that we showed maximum will, but that the corrections had to be carried out, with maximum will to show the Montenegrin authorities. What have you done, gentlemen? Simply, you made everything that the Montenegrin government wanted possible. You gave them quotas, you allowed them the territory by recognising the administrative customs border. It's the territory of Montenegro. Now they're going to invent their own language and there's their country. They finished the job. How did they end up with that? By taking advantage of the unpreparedness of the first negotiators, or at the very least, there is room to suspect that it was all deliberately done. Now, as we expect Javier Solana to help us, it will help us as much as Vojislav Kostunica, who is now being naive and says: I knew it was wrong. When you knew why you were signing. He always, as they say, has an ex-wise mind. You make the same mistake as the Socialists did. The Socialists made a mistake in the fact that when Milo Djukanovic rebelled, strained little relations, ran to Belgrade immediately, and in Belgrade at the time Milosevic's regime was giving him money, he returned; and now I'm doing the same to you in Montenegro. It's a tight relationship, so he says, gentlemen, you'll have to respect our terms. Look how far we're going. A colleague just said, he is about to read this action programme to the end, we are even introducing reciprocity when it comes to studying in Serbia-Montenegro. As many students from Serbia there, so will Montenegro to study here. How do you plan to keep your union together? How do you think to preserve the consciousness of these people in Montenegro, that we are one of those same people, only through education. What's the matter with you? More and more people came from Montenegro to Serbia to study. Here's an example: you leave even this action programme to Montenegro, its leadership, to review all international contracts, so Montenegro itself will decide whether it is a favourable contract with Russia. It's at federal level signed. The community is a legal follower of the federal state. What we will sign with Russia again, then Bosnia and Herzegovina, so don't forget, as Vice President Jovanovic said, will respect this new government's action programme. You don't respect this act anymore. You do not respect the agreement on the parallel relations between Republika Srpska and Serbia. You're putting him out of control. As soon as you give Montenegro the opportunity to review it, that means Serbia must re-sign with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is how things are now politically, Republika Srpska wants to join Bosnia and Herzegovina at any cost. Keep an eye on what you're doing, it's not too late, we can postpone, not like this with the amendments. The amendments resulting from some informal talks become an integral part of the law. You don't know what's worse - amendment or basic text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31907	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31908	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been several concrete remarks, so I would like to comment on them, as I think the consequences of the really serious work on Akca's plan are. As for reciprocity, it does not deny the right of Montenegrin students or youth to school in Serbia, but defines the measure of reciprocity to protect the budgets of both republics. We think it's necessary at this point to do it, and of course one day when we have more resources, we'll think about that kind of stimulation. It would not be fair because of the domestic students we limit, while respecting Montenegrin students in such a way as to allow them to study here uninterruptedly at the expense of the Republika Srpska budget. It's only reciprocity for students who are funded by the state. As many students from Serbia clash in Montenegro, so much will be paid from our budget at Belgrade University, with others able to study here, but will have to study according to rules that are characteristic of self-financed students. As far as the Free Trade Agreement is concerned, of course it stands in the Action Plan. They'll be respected. I cannot dispute the agreements concluded by the SRJ, but we used, since it was a project of the Stability Pact of Southeastern Europe, one of the clauses on which the pact rested and allowing Montenegro to protect those special interests that were not treated with this document through the annexes of the agreement, within a time-defined period of three months. So, since the federal government has conducted free trade negotiations and without the participation of the government of Montenegro, then the federal government has not taken into account the interest of Montenegro that raises no question about the document itself, which should be further protected through the annex and that will be done. That's not a problem. That doesn't put us in a position to renegotiate. We will not negotiate, it will be an annex deal, and the Montenegrin government is obliged to complete the deal within three months. They will only talk to Croatia and Albania, as these are the only two countries with which we have such a thing regulated, with which it is necessary to further protect those specifics of Montenegrin interests. There's nothing else to argue about. All other international agreements will be respected and that is the obligation expressed in the Constitutional Charter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31909	The word has a People's MP, Zoran R. Angelkovic, and the next translated for the word is MP Dragan Lazic, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31910	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, these few months since the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, we are in fact constantly adopting some documents, some laws that should harmonize relations between Serbia and Montenegro, to resolve the issue of relations between Serbia and Montenegro, to adapt it, to be done in a common state. Unfortunately, as the law and how it comes to us, we are increasingly deharmonizing, dividing, dividing, and we are increasingly showing that we are closing the relevant continents in special state communities. This action plan today, when it stands before us as an action plan, without this supplement, of course we could say okay, it is logical, we need to make an action plan, we need to solve something that will be on the platform of what was said here when the Constitutional Charter was adopted, when the basic code was adopted, when there was a claim that a new path would be made and that harmonisation of relations between Serbia and Montenegro would absolutely be resolved. But when you look at the list of tariff codes that are here in the contribution plan given, it's completely different. This has nothing to do with harmonising relations, then it has more to do with not even legalising existing relations and different customs, but strengthening the barriers between Serbia and Montenegro, but also what has been tried to harmonize. And here the Deputy Prime Minister said that this is, in fact, to the economic damage of the Republic of Serbia, that the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be lower by 70m euros, but it is not just that. This is about a new fact, which is evident from these documents, that there were fewer experts, businessmen, or that they were not working at all, and that politicians were doing it, in a desire to bring the largest number of customs rates in line, whether it is at Serbia's expense or not. And then we come to the fact that not only do we have a minus in the 70m-euro budget, but we are actually increasing the debt lobby, that we are becoming larger debtors, more specifically, to strengthen the import lobby in our country. Importers are now becoming powerful, because in many industries it is in fact that our economy will completely die or cease to exist. Of course, it was said here that even with those 56 goods, which were spoken of in agriculture, it was clear that Montenegro was ultimately defending its interest and that they were not interested in what is thought here or there, but what is the interest of Montenegro. Although I think it's the wrong approach. The way they think, but still, look at Milo Djukanovic's latest interview, both in Dan and in Victory, he clearly says this is the rounding up of Montenegro and that he is not in fact interested in the common state. Look, it says clearly. It is clear, in fact, that what was solved when it was spoken to customs rates in agriculture that it was actually decided on the damage of agricultural producers. I know, there's a reason here that seasonal customs rates are being introduced, that this will solve the fact that Serbia's economy is being saved, but if we now have more than 2.5 billion deficits, with these customs rates, how long after the end of the year, after the adoption of this action plan and these customs rates will be increased deficits in Serbia compared to other countries in the region and in general in the world. Therefore, I think it would be necessary, in addition to the action plan, to rush to Thessaloniki and it was calculated that something would profit from it in Thessaloniki, by adopting an action plan to Thessaloniki, and of course it didn't happen, and plus they told us from the European Union - wait, it's not this kind of agriculture that's being solved by subsidies, it's not done by reducing customs rates but by subsidising, then it would be better to do so. to endure another 15 or 20 or a month of negotiations and to get better positions in terms of providing conditions and increasing the number of those customs rates that are common, rather than how we have now obtained them. And, of course, we will now get legalized six customs crossings between Serbia and Montenegro. What we just heard from DOS MPs and this demand from citizens there is a real mess. I passed that customs crossing the day before yesterday. There's a hundred trucks standing there. You don't even know who's drinking or who's paying, and after this action plan, you'll know who's paying. Serbia and the citizens of Serbia will pay, and how much of it will be useful we will see. Unfortunately, the action plan is another proof that the Constitutional Charter is not working, that nothing is being solved on that plan. The story is that this will be harmonised in three years and another two years, and on the other hand there is a statement that Montenegro will go, simply going in the same direction, which is further destabilisation of Serbia from Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31911	The word has a folk MP Dragan Lazic, and the next is Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31912	The strange ways of the gentleman, Mr Jovanovic, are eight days ago we discussed the prison days of Dusan Spasojevic, and today we are already talking about harmonising the economic relations between Serbia and Montenegro. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, I will not be maligned, as one of our Montenegrin parliamentary counterparts, who called Serbia-Montenegro's harmonisation an agreement by two cartels. To me, it is much closer to the conclusion of Professor Miroslav Hadzic, who said it was more of an agreement between the two political elites from Podgorica and Belgrade than is, in fact, the protection of the interests of both the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and Montenegro and Serbia individually. What is missing in this whole harmonisation story in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is honesty. Unfortunately, we are here talking about the economic stabilisation of relations between members of the state community, but no one is referring to one exceptional fact, and that is the political aspect of this state community. I'll remind you -- in the DOS programme itself, in that original sense, it was under point one of the preservation of the state community. That's what all the political factors at the time signed. Who was holding up? Our party president and country president, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, has since the very beginning, since the first day insisted on the common state and on preserving the fluids of those common states, precisely because it is in the interest of both peoples and both states. Unfortunately, these other cynics did not support it. I don't know what reason. I guess it came from Dr Vojislav Kostunica, not from themselves. When did it start trading with the common state? The moment President Kostunica came down from the post of president of the state; well, then it began to be quite different behavior. Suddenly some new actors appear who, for God's sake, are interested in preserving and such common states. When I say that there is no honesty, I mean first of all the way it works in the federal assembly, that is, the Serbian-Montenegro Community Assembly. Unfortunately, there's no such thing as a little political will, not to mention honesty. We simply couldn’t form a program of work of the congregation, we don’t have a rules of procedure, we’re dealing with a semi-worker or a temporary Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, there was a stumbling block at the very beginning and around the seals of the state community. This is highly unacceptable, and we now need to discuss something called harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's economic relations within the state community. When we say obstruction at the very beginning, after the charter, the signing of the Belgrade Agreement and the formation of the Council, there was a flagrant violation of the state charter. I will remind you only, in the Charter, that for two resolution ministries, this is primarily meant by the defence and foreign affairs ministries, the minister cannot be from one member of the state community. Unfortunately, you have seen for yourself that these two resolution ministries have fallen to Serbia, and in the next cycle will belong to Montenegro. How, then, can we talk about some far more serious economic aspects when the Charter of the Common State is in breach at the outset? Secondly, how serious it is to see for yourself, we don't have a constitution. We have the Constitutional Charter. That's what starts with the brakes. So none of the political elites put themselves in the position of thinking about why they didn't bring a single constitution, so we're holding back on the back, on the anthem, on the flag. Here, the day before yesterday, reportedly, we have made a final decision that the flag color of the state community will be and whether it will be a dove blue part of that flag or whether there will be some mixture between Montenegrin and Serbian blue. It's extremely unserious what's being done. And when it's all seen, how it's done in the federal parliament, it's no wonder this is how it happens at the negotiating level. At the level of negotiators, it goes to that point, and now it is quite understandable for which reasons, because it is simply being obstructed to reach next year, to hold regular parliamentary elections next year, although the crisis in Serbia is so deep, and we are pushing for these elections to come as soon as possible, by the end of this year, unfortunately you do not accept it, but someone will surely get hit on the head. When it comes to the harmonisation of the economic system of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro itself, it should be observed in a two-way manner: in terms of external and internal harmonisation. Unfortunately, we are at the beginning making a big mistake not to worry that the European Community is very interested in preserving this common state, not in a polarised way, as we are served, but of course with a single monetary system, with a single market, with a unique flow of goods. Of all these, there is only some kind of single labour market, and that is what everyone who knows the situation a little better and realizes. At this point, we only take care of the internal part of harmonisation, only at Serbia-Montenegro level. As all of this will look at the level of the European Union, Mr Jovanovic did not explain it to us in his presentation, as I could understand. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: First, to pay back the money, the money you took for false travel. Well, that's what you're going to travel for me. In any case, the DSS will not vote for this law for the reasons stated by Mr. Mihajlov and Mr. Petrovic. Hopefully, at some point, there will be an improvement in this harmonisation, this action plan, and then we will certainly vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31913	The word is from MP Milovan Radovanovic, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31914	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the whole project, the idea of creating a state union between Serbia and Montenegro is without perspective. And this bill shows the senselessness of the existence of such a state community that, starting with the Belgrade Agreement, through the Constitutional Charter and a series of laws and acts that have been passed under the Agreement and the Constitutional Charter, monitors your efforts to preserve such a state union, as is nowhere in the world. This kind of state community serves the U.S. administration just to help control you more easily in running state policy. This was the role of Javier Solana, who was with you during the long-term process of creating and adopting the Constitutional Charter. When the period of time is due to survive this state union, which is three years now and less, there is now a re-regulation of mutual relations, coordination of economic systems, etc. But these economic relations, unlike what you are now doing in the form of self-government agreements, will have to be regulated, as you are now to do, bilateral, bonded trade and any other type of co-operation, of course, with the ratification obligations of the competent state authorities. Today, a member of the Democratic Centre said that only Vojislav Kostunica and Dragoljub Micunovic sincerely imagined a project of this state union. I don't want to doubt their honesty, but all I know is, if they were creating a community like this, it's like they were building a bridge across a river that's going to cross trucks weighing 50 tons or more. It'd be all right if it wasn't for that bridge of wood. It's probably how they pictured this state union and its existence. First, you advocate, DOS parties, the state union, and each party -- DHSS, Gay 17 Plus -- for independent Serbia. Is there any difference between this document and bilateral agreements? The meaning and importance of each other are the same, absolutely the same, only otherwise called, action plan or bilateral agreement. It would be realistic for you to bring agreements on mutual regulation and coordination of economic systems. In the part of the Action Plan and in the field of work and employment, you say you will bring in certain legal projects later, by 31 December of the current year, in co-operation with the US dispute resolution service. Is this American service an NGO or an institution of the system? Let's do this first, then it'd be an institution of the system, and it'd be a service to settle disputes peacefully. Well, you know that since World War II America has been involved and directly involved in 273 armed conflicts: Southeast Asia (Laos, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia); Central America (Nicaragua, Panama, Costa Rica, Cuba); Yugoslav bombing; Afghanistan and Iraq occupation; Korea and South Africa's intention. They've been committing crimes everywhere and violating human rights, causing chaos, misery and poverty. Co-operation with the US for DOS parties only makes sense because you're being held in power and traveling around the world. In the work - establishing a working relationship with foreign citizens, it makes sense, but first you need to regulate work relations and employ a large number of people in Serbia. Nearly a million people are out of a job. In Serbia's Elektroprivred alone, you predict 22,000 people to lose their jobs. Set up a border line, as you say in the bill. People, these are border crossings, borders in the right sense of words, between the two independent states, such as between Serbia and Hungary or Serbia and Romania. The affairs of the customs procedure, customs rates, excise systems; in the area of finance you mention the regulation of all these relations. The National Bank of Serbia; you have no law on the National Bank of Serbia. In the true sense of the word, in accordance with the law, there is neither the National Bank of Serbia. Serbia-Montenegro pays 3m dinars a month, of which Serbia has the full amount. How will economic systems work in the Member States in real terms? As two economic systems in two independent states, Serbia-Montenegro, with the existence of free market value laws, supply and demand laws, etc. In the end, two little things. Why do you use the draft law of the Ichak language area and what does the signatures on each page of the Action Plan proposal mean? I barely decoded it, I think it says Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31915	Right on line, MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31916	Just one short replica. Both Micunovic and Kostunica wanted a much better state than it was made, but failed to do so. They wanted it to be a bridge not of wood, but of concrete and they could pass the hardest trucks, but it couldn't. Therefore, we remain in favour of this country, to make it better, or it will disappear.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31917	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic, a member of the SPS group, and then MP Dusan Budishin, a member of the DSS (not present, justified the absence). Then, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, MP of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31918	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you spoke of this speaker a few months ago that Serbia-Montenegro gave up a common name to preserve the common state. According to the adoption and adoption of the Action Plan for Harmonisation of the Economic System of the Member States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, we have lost Yugoslavia on behalf and now without a common state in reality. This is a country to start with - we are neither a state nor an alliance. A solution without a solution. When you look at the economic agreement, you can see in fact, it's quite clear that a state with two central banks, two currencies and two customs cannot be one state. The state involves a single economic space, freedom to establish businesses and banks, one currency, one central bank, a single customs system, one tariff. This is where we have the biggest disagreements in the functioning of the common state. It is almost certain that Serbia-Montenegro will not be able to fully equalise the level of customs rates. A miracle should occur, so that the Serbian and Montenegrin sides and under pressure from foreigners find a common language for certain customs positions, such as the protection of the metal complex and agricultural production, where both sides have different views on the level of customs rates. It is known that in the principle of harmonisation, Serbia has lowered the level of customs protection, while Montenegro has raised, in order to have an average, but not arithmetical, but weighted by trade flows. It's not the same if you shoot down a 5% customs rate for importing 3 million tonnes of goods or raise customs duties at the same rate for importing 3,000 tonnes of the same goods. In my view, the problem is that, from Serbia's point of view, in the metal complex and agriculture, there is hardly enough room to knock down customs rates at a percentage that would lead to convergence, because we already have enough foreign competition through signed free trade contracts. Montenegro has a maximum rate of 5% in these sectors and 30% in Serbia. Additional import competition, which would have led to the fall of the customs rate, would be a dangerous threat to Serbian milk, meat, fruit and vegetables producers, and so far the signed free trade agreements prove. The metal complex employs a lot of people who are difficult to cope with foreign competition and the current level of customs protection. Serbia cannot, nor must, go to the drop-off of customs rates because it would violate the concept of industrial and agricultural development. If there is a solution in the Action Plan on Harmonisation of the Economic System, a quality solution, hardly anyone can be satisfied, especially in the part of the external trade system and customs protection. From Serbia's point of view, it will open prematurely, with budget revenues cut from customs, bring new difficulties and now uncompetitive domestic producers. A three-year loss in Serbia's $320m budget is projected, but greater damage will be an increase in the external trade deficit and pressure on foreign reserves, exchange rates and prices. Some harmonised customs rates will not apply until after the end of the 18th month or 24 months since the adoption of the action plan. At the end of the period of 18 months, new customs rates will apply, meaning significantly lower than those in Serbia. For example, shoes from 12% to 15%, brick 10%, glasses and other products of crystal and glass 8%, telephones and fax 5%. A significantly longer list of goods to which new harmonised rates will be applied only after the expiry of 24 months. Teled, junada and meat 20%, new passenger cars 10%, used 12%, tractors 10%. These rates are significantly lower than those in Serbia, but more than those in force in Montenegro. So a compromise solution has been reached that will be applied, if applied in general, only in the second half of 2005, and the question is whether there will be a state union then. The Action Plan identified strategic products for Montenegro's needs, which account for 56 positions of food products. For imports of these products to Montenegro, quotas corresponding to the balance needs of Montenegro, to which the existing low customs rates to the balance-rates will apply, while harmonised significantly higher rates would apply to the surplus imports. Strategic products for the purposes of Montenegro are pork, wheat, rye, corn, pork fat, oil, margarine. The balance of needs and the determination of import quotas has nothing to do with the liberal market economy, but it has to do with strengthening the role of the state and increasing the volume of administration. Is this a way to curb the entry of cheap import food products from Montenegro into Serbia. It can be an idea if you know the example of sugar. Over Montenegro, where import burdens are significantly lower, 50,000 tonnes of sugar entered Serbia. How did this happen if there was customs control between Serbia and Montenegro. This suggests that it is possible only with the consent of the Serbian authorities or at least its customs service, without new customs duties. The objective of the Action Plan for Harmonization of the Economic System is the free flow of goods. This means no customs controls and customs at the border between Serbia and Montenegro. This is not realistic in such a state community as Serbia-Montenegro. Serbia-Montenegro's economic interests differ. Montenegro's strategic interest is a fully open economy. In Serbia, it prevails on the need for high protection of its own agricultural and industrial production, as this will allow faster development. The reduction in customs rates for Serbia may have a negative effect in future negotiations on entering the World Trade Organisation, if it is known that it is not known by now that a country has reduced its rates to this extent before the negotiations begin. What happens after adoption of the action plan will show the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31919	The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31920	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the MPs to withdraw from the procedure the draft legislation on the coordination of economic systems of the state union member states of Serbia-Montenegro, followed by a correspondence between the cabinets of Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic and Secretary-General of the Government, which was divided by the President of the National Assembly to the MPs as an explanation that it was not a matter of withdrawing the law from the procedure, but of delaying the debate on the law over the obligations of the proposing representative, i.e. the official path of Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic, talks on harmonising relations in the government. As a harmonised relationship in the government is between different services and ministries, so this government is working in the state and doing so to its people. From Mr. Jovanovic, Deputy Prime Minister, we heard big words. The action plan opens the door to Europe. I guess that's why we couldn't bring the action plan ourselves, and I guess that's why someone has to interfere with us, give us the final versions of this plan, and it's our only job to carry out the obligations that we make with that plan. It seems easier for warring parties to come to a peace treaty than for two republics, in which nations of the same or similar origin, once lived in a single and large state. Mr Jovanovic further says this gives life to the state community, which we have formed. Minister Batic often has the custom of saying - that the coat of arms is born time does not correct. You don't give this law life to the state community. She's already born a hump, badly ill and, unfortunately, it seems to me that after the end of her earliest childhood, after three years, that country will disappear just as quickly as it was created. This law gives artificial breathing at the request of Europe, to give time to Montenegro to continue on its own path. Mr Jovanovic says it is an exceptional honor for this parliament to discuss this law, which we can discuss. To me, as an MP of the Serbian Radical Party, it would really be an honor to discuss a law that will talk about an orderly state, a state that will have only one common anthem, a common coat of arms, a common flag, one criminal law, one customs law, that everything is common to us, and this is how when we work to break up the state, in the further decommissioning of the state, it is really not an honor for me to discuss this law. It's said to be true that we have two customs laws, but they're identical and they don't make differences. If they're identical and they don't make any difference, then why do we have two laws and why is it not one single law? It is said further that there will be less revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget due to a reduction in customs revenues, but that will be compensated in next year from donations. What happens when that year goes by and if you can live off donations and charity. It is said that this law rests on the co-operation of the two governments, respecting the representatives of one government and the other government, the government of Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but since it is certain that there will be elections in Serbia by the end of this year or at the beginning of next year, and it is certain that there will be a change in the mood of the citizens, the change in Parliament's composition, and thus the change in government, will it then rest on the lack of co-operation of the government of Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Let's do Jovo again, and it's clear we're going to have to do it again. Anything at all, the job is obviously done with Montenegro. The only thing scares me is that you don't start harmonising relations with Vojvodina, harmonising with Raska, with Nisavska County, and then Serbia remains harmonised, but to Belgrade Pashalu. It does not become a member of the European Union by destroying the country and its economy, and this law does exactly that. I thought it was entering the European Union by increasing the standard of living, reducing inflation, developing economies, economics, making citizens safer, making the state stronger, stronger and more organized. It is already clear that simple lies are that only DOS can lead us into Europe. After all, if that is true, that only DOS can bring us into Europe and the European Union, and the citizens of Serbia will live as they do today, then neither Europe nor the European Union are certainly necessary. Serbian radicals have repeatedly warned of all the dangers the Belgrade Agreement carries with it. This time we warn you that the implementation of this law will lead to the further breaking up of the Serbian state in Montenegro, the Serbian state in Serbia, that it threatens the great danger for citizens to lose the common market, as they have already lost their currency, so that there is no more free flow of goods, capital, no more common state, and it is clear to all that the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31921	The word is made by MP Ljubomir Mucic, after which the MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31922	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would ask only for time, since there are two more reported, how many MPs are there?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31923	A Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group is available for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31924	Thank you. Here, it's been a year since you've harmonised us, not to put it in Serbian, and that's why some people might get angry, given that we're these jobs, or that you started these jobs on June 24th last year. We still don't have official confirmation until we get to that job. While 15 sovereign countries of Europe have already harmonised and accepted the European Union's common principle, and a dozen are in a further phase of preparation, Serbia is struggling to reconcile its relations with a small brother, making sure that he is not offended or accidentally angry, as if we were not one country until yesterday, a nation. Our people said wisely, "Eat and drink with your own food and don't push." When I mentioned to one of the neighbors what I read, the Action Plan on Harmonization, says -- about harmony, I've seen, I've heard -- it's a real accordion, one holding DOSs, another keyboard, and the Mech between nowhere. It's either gonna continue to salt, or everyone's gonna play for themselves, it's time to decide which empire to agree to. Whether Serbia-Montenegro's Economic System Harmonisation Action Plan should be adopted as a fundamental issue and the answer is at this point - no, for several reasons, which I will point out to this point and also because of some unresolved issues. First, the very name of the plan is rogue, as well as this nakarad state needs to be named, on behalf of the plan, something affirmative, which leads to a specific goal and is called e.g. a plan for harmonising the economic system to join the European Union, not to prevent and remove obstacles. In Article 13 itself. The Serbia-Montenegro Constitutional Charter has been declared free movement of people, goods, capital and at the same time prohibited any prevention of their free flow between Member States. He's also a member of the 12th. The Constitutional Charter provides for the establishment of a common market in Serbia-Montenegro, and in the position of the 2nd member and the responsibility of the Member States for its smooth functioning. Secondly, we do not have any official confirmations of the consistency of this text and whether this will be accepted by the other side, or by the Montenegrin government. The proposed deadlines for alignment are too long, 18, 24, 36 months and even up to five years, which means that there is nothing since the accession to the European Union before 2010. The subsequently agreed deadlines of three, five years are longer than the deadline for the use of this form, called the state union, and who guarantees that in two and a half years Montenegro will continue along this common path. The same question is for Serbia. Maintaining low customs rates for 56 strategic, agricultural, food products, for the next five years, towards Montenegro's insistence, is devastating for Serbia, if it wants a product-oriented economy, or the Serbian economy will also be based on consumer society, without domestic production. Today, we read data that Serbia is currently importing three times more bananas than it used to import for the entire SFRY market. This means that the consumer lobby still has a great advantage in the business of our economy. While Europe has abolished or abolished customs borders, we are making customs territory of the two countries and withdrawing administrative customs lines, which will only be abolished in three to five years, or the market should function without internal barriers. What kind of state with two separate monetary systems, two central banks, two different currencies as legal means of payment? The euro is Montenegro's official currency. This remains, and we know that the largest number of EU member states has accepted the euro as an official currency of payment. Is ever going to re-enlive payment traffic like it used to be. At this point, even the post office is not working towards Serbia. The shipments arrive with a few days delay, later compared to those sent and returned to Serbia, while Swiss and other countries are being smooth and postal traffic. The biggest damage per Serbia is the agreement to represent Serbia-Montenegro's state union in international and financial organisations, which signed two finance ministers and did not verify the Council of Ministers. Why Serbia did not get jobs from Serbia-Montenegro's fiscal agent in the World Bank, but in the IMF, perhaps as the finance minister implements the agreement and the IMF torture, and it is also written that Montenegro and its central monetary institution do not have a World Bank certificate for carrying out financial transactions, even for Montenegro. How will he represent us until he gets the certificate? On what grounds? Serbia-Montenegro's assembly provides guarantees for loans when the state community has no property and cannot be in debt. It was written in this action plan, and we have an example that Finance Minister Boza Djelic was chasing MPs for the Federal Parliament, or the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, to vote on certain guarantees of borrowing, i.e. giving guarantees for the borrowing of individual members. Will the European Constitution be brought before Serbian and will we accept the basic principles of the European Constitution and of the European Union? The last issue and the comparison, and more to the question, how much the Serbian economy and the Serbian budget cost this harmonisation and whether this part of the funds, based on reduced customs revenues and customs revenue, will be a blow to taxpayers in Serbia, or will the issue be as foreseen by the 2003 budget, or a memorandum for next year. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31925	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. He's not there. After that, National MP Natasa Jovanovic was reported, followed by MP Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31926	The remaining time for the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party of Serbia and the rest of the DOS for the Serbian Radical Party is five minutes. That's not even the hundredth part of the time it takes to comment on a part of what contains so-called. Action plan, because the key thing is not the whole process and this work task for governments so-called. Member States, already customs tariffs for all branches of our economy and what is most painful for a completely ruined economy in the past two and a half years, or its collapse since the DOS has been in power. What are the comments after such a campaign by Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic and the other leaders, which DOS authorities, which your separatist brothers in Montenegro, which has served you at this violent political moment for you, and especially for you, Mr. Jovanovic, as a springboard and as some reason to be strong, to be at the centre of attention, etc. However, as for the comments made by those whose answers you wait for and on whom you depend, to carry out this so - called. The action plan, and especially about the dispute with the 56 items with the Montenegrins, is not at all favourable for you either, and above all for Mr. Zivkovic, still the current prime minister, with whom you have or do not have any conflicts, I will not enter into that. You see, you've been here today, I've seen, I've been through most of the daily press, but I assume you've skipped the comment that comes from "New Zurich newspapers," and it's not just about those, but many other professional and economic magazines, which deny Zivkovic himself, and you and everything you've been saying in the past few days, and it's about so-called. Harmonization of relationships. First of all, tossing dust into the eyes of a completely impoverished people of Serbia that we will enter the European Union in 2007. They estimate as a certain race of regattas, as they said, and that as a completely unrealistic deadline, because the conclusions in Porto Karas are something that is too much to eat for such a government of the Republic of Serbia as it is, and especially because it is time for all these items to be achieved within a very short time, given that they are so-called. The Belgrade Agreement, and then the Constitutional Charter, served and now serve, we could hear it during the inauguration of Filip Vujanovic, Montenegro only to promote their statehood and for the quickest separation, unfortunately and separation from the so-called. Serbia-Montenegro state unions. Unlike Vojislav Kostunica, the cabinet former president of the SRJ, and often mentioned here today, and about President "gay 17 Plus" Miroslav Labus and not to speak, Prof. Vojislav Srešelj, the distinguished professor of Law School, and above all an expert in the field of knowledge of overall opportunities and at the former premises of Yugoslavia, and also now in the last country war, the behaviour of the authorities in Montenegro and yourself is immediately, when the adoption and discussion of so-called so-called. The Belgrade Agreement, he said that the very points of the agreement and the Constitutional Charter, and in particular Article. 12 and 13, only certain transactions are declared to be free trade in goods and services, and that this will not be easy at all. We were, at a time when you were in and out of Belgrade streets and were in various coalitions, associations, etc., very seriously involved in Serbia's political life. That, I remind you, was the period when our country was exposed to the worst possible sanctions of all time. international communities. For your information, Mr Jovanovic, your brotherhood of separatists from the DPS and others who follow them, never took an interest in Serbia's economy, and they never wanted to bring customs rates into SRJ into the committees in charge, whose participant I was for four years, the committee was called the Committee on Economic Relations with abroad, to protect the economy and any business branch in Serbia. It has also been shown now that you have had trouble with them, and that you have not heard from them to protect strategic industries, those that have now fallen asleep, which are to be recovered in the coming period. As an illustration of this, I will tell you that political mentor Milo Djukanovic, a certain Damjan Sekkovic, was the chairman of that committee, no, you did not hear, of course, you are a young politician, in front of you or there is no perspective. So, in four years, Mr. Jovanovic, that gentleman from the DPS, Milov's mentor, didn't come to the board meeting to chair one time. You see how quickly these five minutes pass. Therefore, I will not have the opportunity, but I believe our views will be expressed by these three MPs of the SRS, who have submitted amendments with some more concrete objections to customs rates. No farmers, no employees in the textile industry, no car factory, no metal complex, no good to expect of all this. After all, there is an ever-increasing downfall in your government, and you are extending it from hot summer to uncertain political fall. What is a fact, which is that some future government will have much more understanding and much more efforts to make the item a precise definition of customs rates and to protect the most vulnerable branches of our economy and those with perspective. You had to make a lot more bills than my Sumadinians would say, beating empty straw with Montenegrins, as well as contracting free trade with the Russian Federation, so don't run away from it. Much greater benefits will come from our economy. We are proud and ratified and signed at a time when we actively participated in power, and with you what will be, I have already made my forecast. The forecasts of these experiments... (President: seven minutes. I'm finishing up... from the European Union which do not foresee a bright future for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31927	The People's Messenger Marko Culibrk has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is certain that we who support the common state were expecting and it was necessary to adopt such an action plan on harmonising the economic relations of the two countries, because we believe that this will in any case strengthen the common state. It is certain that the legislator was in one problem, because this action plan should have been carried out in a very short time, and that is why we can see through his fingers that has not reached a greater consensus of all political parties in the Republic of Serbia and that no consensus has been reached on professional matters. Maybe some things were meant to be in public debate and in the Chamber of Commerce in the professional public. However, since we know that this action plan should have been presented until the Thessaloniki summit, we can say that we can kind of look at it. At that rate, we believe that certain damages will occur, above all for our economy and our businesses. By liberalising the market, as customs rates descend to an average of 8%, we believe there has been a sudden drop in customs rates, as still states that have moved further away in the liberalisation of markets and customs, such as Slovenia and Croatia, still have an average rate of 15%. Maybe it was supposed to take these customs rates off twice, as it was tried with a 24-month time distance, three years, etc. It may have been necessary to lower customs rates by one lower level, then only through this office, which is established together by Montenegro and Serbia, with the help of the professional public and the insight of the situation in practice, in life, to correct the rates for a certain percentage. It has already been said here that Serbia's budget will be damaged between 70m and 200m euros. We think it can be compensated in many ways. What is harmful to businesses and the economy of Serbia is a rapid blow that they will surely feel. It was also said that, above all, the debt lobby would have an even greater chance of importing as much goods into our market as possible, and those we need and which are not. Exports will sort of shrink. We can have the understanding of making an action plan. At the same time, however, we believe that the promoter had to propose some other action plans here to avoid the harmful consequences he was aware of, but in some ways, because of the speed of adoption, he had to propose it. First of all, to adopt an action plan to curb the grey economy. I think the government should adopt an action plan on curbing the grey economy, because it would increase budget filling, and that would also help the domestic economy, which pays all taxes and contributes to its business. Also, I think that the government should establish one group or make an action plan for exporting domestic goods and above all to see the National Bank about the dinar course, which we have been talking about for a long time, how much damage monetary policy could and how much would increase exports. In these surrounding countries, above all in Croatia, there is today a 10% stimulation of all export invoices that go abroad. I think that might be one measure for us that will affect the increase in exports. Also, it might be good to reduce the mandatory level of reserves of business banks that monitor and credit exports. That's what they're called. credits on factoring. So where would business banks follow export invoices, but for that amount, the National Bank would reduce their mandatory deposit which is very large. We believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia, apart from supporting liberalisation, should also set up certain groups that would open certain markets for our businesses. These are primarily Russia's construction markets, also in Libya and in many other countries. I think our government thinks that the market economy can solve all the problems of our economy, but without the organised assistance of the government and the state, above all, in performing abroad, we will certainly not be able to achieve this effect. Finally, we expect the government to propose, in support of this maximum plan, an action plan to stop the decline in industrial production, which lasts for a long time, as well as an increase in the number of employees. I believe that the government has the power to make these action plans, above all for the needs of the Serbian economy and that then this action plan between Serbia and Montenegro can make sense. Until the government does, I don't think we can support this action plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31929	The People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević has the word, and after him, the MP, Jovan Todorovic. The People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević is not present. National MP Jovan Todorovic. The time of your parliamentary group is two minutes, but you have time as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to say a few more important SPS arguments at the end of this debate, when it comes to its relationship with the proposed action plan law. I'd like to ask Mrs. Chairman to allow my few minutes to be heard. If we ask in principle whether such an action plan is needed, then I am quite sure there is no reasonable man in this hall who would say that there is no need for an action plan for reconciliation, particularly economic relations with Montenegro within the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Obviously, the very economic segment of the need to agree relations between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro attracts the greatest attention, which cannot be surprised, because in fact this segment depends on the possibility of bringing everyone else into line, including employment, people flow, health care, education and education, etc. I have the impression that when Mr Jovanovic speaks on this topic, I am sorry that he is not present right now, that he really thinks that this will happen exactly as it is written in the action plan and that it is in some way agreed with the European Union and the Republic of Montenegro. Unfortunately, the life and reality this country is going through are completely different. First of all, I would say that both our delegation and the people representing the Republic of Serbia have fallen to the European Union's promise that due to the general fall in customs rates and the protection of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, the deficit will be calmed down as a negative effect in the budget of around 70m euros. But that's not all that matters. There are at least three negative effects that can be done here as conclusions. First, by reducing the customs rates from about 10% to about 7%, we will actually reduce the competitive capacity of our economy in correlations with the UN and with countries in the environment by one third. Is that right, I have no doubt, because even those productions that are now doing something that show any activity in the last week or two days will simply be like the wind. We will not be able to withstand competition, because everyone will be more calculating and economics in the business to import something, but to produce or encourage domestic production. There's no doubt that's exactly what's going to happen. We are now trying with one story, which is fully in line with the neoliberal concept of building a society, to say that our economy must be exposed to that competition and the patient must stand up and run in that economic game with Europe, which has, in all things, gone away. As a result, we will inevitably have an increase in the number of workers who will lose their jobs. The reduction of any possibility, the creation of new jobs is a whole story and must not be vulgarised on how much we will lose in the budget based on the lack of customs duties for 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and possibly 2007. Another negative effect that inevitably stems from an increase in the external trade deficit. We now have about five billion projected external trade deficits for 2003. It simply raises the question of where this country will serve and the increased imports and obligations on the basis of the loans we receive from the international community. I say all this will last and the European Union will support this concept until as long as our citizens have these five billion euros in straws. Those five billion euros when we spend on imports, and what we don't need and on debt service, then we'll know we're at zero. When we're at zero, then the question is, will we be able to do anything serious for our economy? The second consequence that arises is positive, but only for Europe. I claim that in the coming months, after the application of this agreement, we will have on our market more and more goods from Slovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary. From those countries that have joined the EU. The European Union's goal on this occasion, when it has forced us to accept such an agreement, is to drain those four or five billion euros through the placement of its goods on our Serbian market and thereby return the capital it has invested in production in those countries. I don't have any dilemmas that this is exactly how it's going to happen, because when you don't have domestic production and you have an incentive for imports, not exports, which would be natural in the countries of the economic situation as ours, then it's an unsavory consequence. Thirdly, we talked about it, the budget deficit based on the lack of customs revenue is only one indicator. It is said here that we expect that by means of increased consumption and sales tax on those goods that will be originating in imports, we will replace the lack in the budget. The objective question is who will be able to buy it in the future when these 4.5 billion euros are gone that we have in our pockets. The theme is darkness. Four years after 70m euros or 80m euros is equal to 320m euros. Recalculated about $400 million. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2002, we had revenues based on privatisation about that amount. What does that mean? That means we're going to have a budget hole, that we're going to have to sell twice as much into the depravity of our social and state-owned enterprises to replace that hole. To finance those social functions that are present here in this program. There are people from the Democratic Party who, by the nature of their programme, have something that is slightly left-wing, have this social component in mind, should not agree to such a concept that clearly imposes Group -17, that everything must be exposed to that market wind, so who survives, and after that we will see what we will do. Nowhere in the world has this concept prevailed, has not produced any results of this monetary approach to things, this approach that everything is exposed to the market. There is no country in the world that at least in some way does not defend itself. Look at the text of the agreement and you will see - within a year or until the end of the year we will also have to abolish quantitative restrictions on imports. So it's not just the height of customs, it's the amount. There's no country in the world that's going to expose its economy that way. Take Switzerland, when you want to produce chocolate, then you have the quantity you can produce, imagine a country that has no restrictions on imports. Take any agricultural production within developed countries. You have the minimum and maximum that you have to produce. If you produce more than that, then the State does not guarantee adequate benefits, subsidies or prices. So, you produce at your own risk, but if you want to get help from the state, then you can't do more than what's agreed and prescribed. Well, it's not like someone put in their own quota and quantity. You can't import everything and everything, like the banana story, and then you can sell our apples or some other fruit for nothing or throw it away. We can't import rat manure in this country, and we can't talk about how we're protecting, say, skin production because it's a strategic product by introducing customs. On the other hand, we allow uncontrollable imports of both the amount and the height of the price of shoes and leather products. If you want, finally, and sugar. So these are some paradoxes that are present in this programme and I'm surprised that DS people, first of all, have allowed Mr Jovanovic to fall into that trap that for the promised 70m euros, which the European Union is supposed to replace in the budget, loses a billion euros, and the worst loss of one perspective from which this economy would have to start, from the relationship that would be applied on the basis of the action plan, without talking about subsidies and export incentives. Comrade Culibrk said something about it. I can, for example, suggest one solution, because I'm not selfish in thinking, exporters can be stimulated not only by course or by some stimulation that would be determined at 10%, so that now someone can smell that money. It can also, for example, be replaced by the release of a part of the tax or part of the contribution to the earnings of those workers working in export-oriented production, that this thing is balanced at a level of one year or one month, if you will, and to the extent that the lack in the real course of the dinar is replaced by the release of the obligations of these export-oriented productions. And, of course, we, the text that was proposed, cannot be accepted, not because we don't think we should agree on relations between Serbia and Montenegro, but if in three years, plus two years, so in five years, we're going to get to what we had five years ago, then the question is why did we have to do all this in the first place and this way to do it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31931	The word has been issued by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31932	Dear Mrs Comic, dear fellow MPs, on the basis of Article 81, I propose that we continue our work until the debate is completed on these agenda points and ask the Assembly to declare this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31933	Please, before the vote on the proposal of MP Sinisha Mitrovica, we would like to establish a quorum for the vote. Here you go. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting forward a motion to extend today's work to the end of the debate in particular and in general on all points of the proposed agenda. Here you go. For 110, against 57, six out of 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to extend the work today to the conclusion of the debate on all the proposed agenda points. The word is given by MP Sladjan Mijajlovic, followed by Milan Radulovic, and this is the last registered speaker according to statements for the word in the principled search. Sladjan Mijalovic is not present. The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic. Time available for the DSS parliamentary group 29 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31934	Dear People's MPs, let me remind you of the exact title of the file we're talking about today. The title reads this - Proposal for a law on an action plan for the harmonisation of the economic systems of the Member States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital. In today's debate, we heard very detailed and serious, professional economic analysis of this file. Instead of such expert analyses, I could deal with the language and logical analyses of this legislative proposal. In doing so, I am sorry that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister is not present because I wanted to ask five or six questions; therefore, instead of any comment, I wanted to ask a simple, non-professional one, but I still find it logical and common sense issues, those questions that the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro ask. The first question would be this: Do Serbia-Montenegro really have two different economic systems? Are the differences in Serbia-Montenegro's economic systems so large and the similarities so small, we need to talk about two systems? You can see from the title of this text that this is a single system. What system? It is an economic system that is autarchical, an economic system that places obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital. And that is what is common for both Serbia's economic system and Montenegro's economic system. Another common feature of these two economic systems is that both are inefficient. Serbia's economic system is inefficient, Montenegro's economic system is inefficient, with gross social product in the two Member States, as they are called here, at an extremely low level, among the lowest, if not the lowest in Europe. The third common feature that makes these two economic systems one system is that capital does not want to enter into such an economic system. Why doesn't foreign capital want to get into such an economic system? Why doesn't domestic capital enter that economic system? Probably because we don't have institutions that guarantee the rule of law and because we have a closed (autarchical) economic system, an economic system that isn't defined. The one economic system that has Serbia-Montenegro is a mutant system, a system that draws very strong socialist economic relapses and fully inconsistencies the principles of market and competitive economy. Such an undefined system is not an environment in which it wants to enter foreign capital; neither will domestic. (When a debate is being held and the governor of the National Bank is being attacked, it is not a political issue, but indeed an economic issue. The economic question is why our people won't invest in our economic system. That's the problem, first of all, economic and political. And now, the real question for the Deputy Prime Minister is this -- does that so-called meaning make sense? two economic systems, which, as we can see, are closed, inefficient and reluctant to competition and capital flow, does these two systems (or that one system) coordinate, or does this system need to be improved? People are not interested in whether and how Serbia-Montenegro will comply with its customs rates, how much goods will be in Montenegro in the free flow, how much import permits will be. People wonder if, when this bill is implemented, our economy will be more competitive, will our businesses be able to compete with foreign businesses, will there be more businesses, will our capital enter the state, will our citizens live better -- or will they still live as they live on this degree of gross national product? That's what people are interested in -- is it going to be better, are we going to get a better system, or are we going to have a better system like this? The other thing that I think is also very interested in the citizens of our country, is whether we of the two states, of Serbia-Montenegro, are making four, three, two independent -- or one joint. The Constitutional Charter and the Belgrade Agreement laid the foundations of a common state. The governments of Serbia-Montenegro are in charge of negotiations, agreeing and implementing the Constitutional Charter so that, on the one hand, it speaks of the existence of two independent states, but, on the other hand, it is very dangerous and that the citizens of this country are very irritated, the government of Serbia and the government of Montenegro, in addition to the existing states: Serbia, Montenegro and the common state, creating one para-state. A tour is taking place in the following: the authority to implement this Action Plan is not the Council of Ministers of the common state. Look, the Education Committee for International Cooperation of Member States is formed in education, culture, science and technology. The members of the Committee shall be representatives of the competent national authorities of the Member States. The area of work and employment: the competent authorities for implementing measures - the Ministry of Labour and Employment of Serbia and the Ministry of Labour and Social Ageing of Montenegro. On page 6 you have a very interesting finding, which says, "In the field of customs proceedings, Member States' governments have signed an agreement on customs co-operation and mutual assistance, as well as an agreement establishing the Office of the Office of the Customs of Serbia and the Office of the Customs of Montenegro". I'm merely illustrating these examples. Then, on page 15, you have the following: that the authorities responsible for implementing the measure (it is about insurance) are the Ministry of Finance of Montenegro and the Ministry of Finance and Economy of the Republic of Serbia. "In order to agree on the implementation of these measures, a joint expert team of Member States is formed without delay. "I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, although he is not present here, who will control these various committees and committees. Whose organs are these? It's the government's organs. They're not formed by the Parliament, they're formed by the government. There is no jurisdiction over them, there is no federal parliament. They belong to the government. Parastate bodies are being created, something which is the fourth state, which is neither Serbia apart nor Montenegro apart, nor the state community, but is something fourth. In the end, I'd just like to ask one more question, and that's also a question common people ask. I'm not an expert on economic issues and I'm not going to deal with customs rates, but I'm asking what most people who deal with the economy are using their own skin method, or people who feel economic legality in everyday life. Almost all these measures are prescribed to bring economic systems in line with the principles of the European Union. Will we, as fortunate as we are, come into the situation that we have all economic principles in line with the principles of the European Union, that we have all the regulations formally in line with their regulations, that we have the entire legal infrastructure built at that level, and that we do not have what the European Union is resting on. The European Union rests, gentlemen, on a certain, very high level of gross social product that must have every state to enter that community. It is not enough to have laws, it is necessary to have competitive businesses, market economy and gross social product at least five times as high as we have today. And have, of course, less debts than we have today. About, we owe a whole year's gross social product. It's such a degree of duty that with such debts you can't go anywhere. No domestic economy can be launched, no gross social product can be raised and therefore cannot be entered into the European Union. In doing so, both the government of Serbia and the government of Montenegro, via the Council of Ministers -- and that is the only place where the Council of Ministers respect it -- continues to owe the state. Whoever wants to lend them, they'll borrow from him. Is that a smart economic policy? Is it wise to be in so much debt? Perhaps at the beginning of this century, as at the beginning of the last century, we come as a society and a state in danger of being mastered by so-called. Bankocracy. The only interesting business in this country is money transactions, whether it's borrowed, whether it's coming back, whether it's being cashed. There is no borrowing to invest in economic development. This is all borrowing for borrowing, i.e. for certain banking transactions. These are some questions that I was going to ask the Deputy Prime Minister, confident, since he is dealing with economic issues, that he would be working and willing to answer them and also convinced that this for a man who deals with such problems is not difficult issues, but rather very simple, logical, I think, simple questions, issues that are asked by the citizens of Serbia. Until we get answers to these simple questions, we cannot agree that the two governments are dealing with some sophisticated issues, to lead for days and months to negotiate some fundamentally irrelevant economic issues -- rather than sit down and define a single economic policy through the Council of Ministers. If we don't have a single economic policy, then we'll always have problems like this, we'll have something to coordinate, and no one will benefit from that coordination, especially the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. And they, I repeat, are not interested in whether Serbia-Montenegro's economic systems are one system or two systems, whether they are mutually coherent, but whether they are effective, whether they are economic systems that enable citizens to have economic prosperity, or whether they are economic systems that keep us at a low level of development and which, basically, I think, are justifiably doubtful -- serve financial and political oligarchy, not the widest part of society and state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31935	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right? The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31936	Dear MPs, harmonisation, above all, should mean harmonising our economic relations and, they say, in the very reasons for adopting this plan, harmonising with European Union regulations, in order to get closer to the start of the process of accession talks with the European Union. The Copenhagen document, which I quoted, primarily speaks not of economic relations, but of the stability of institutions, the rule of law, the independent judiciary, the free media. If we only take these criteria we will see that Serbia, to be able to be a member of the European Union today, could not possibly be a member of the European Union. We don't have institutions, we don't have a parliament that respects the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, we don't have a parliament set up in accordance with that decision, we don't have a president who would lead this Serbia into the European Union, we don't have institutions that can guarantee freedom of the media, we don't have a tip for broadcasting, we have one, we better not have one. We do not have a constitutional court, whose decisions will act mostly on those bodies that create laws in Serbia. Serbia, if they told us today to join the European Union, it couldn't be and could not be. Whose responsibility is it? As is the responsibility for a poor action plan for harmonisation of relations; for an action plan in which the interests of citizens of Serbia, the state of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro are protected by the European Union and the European Commission, while the government of the Republic of Serbia (which one of our MPs would say, is this a two cartel agreement or what it is) is shutting down those interests. In such relations as the harmonisation we can talk about here, when the European Commission must tell you to lift quotas for agricultural products in Montenegro, when the European Commission must say that we must protect our economy, especially agriculture. Are we talking about a responsible authority that is making an act of harmonisation that needs to inhale the life of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro which will solve problems now, if you are already full of mouths that you are the ones who are solving problems. Solve the problem between Serbia and Montenegro's two systems. Solve the problem of the monetary union, two separate markets, foreign trade relations. You're postponing these questions by three plus two, so five years from now, and then you're going to solve these problems. What problems do you solve here? This is how you solve your personal problems and your personal relationships. You charge old debts. You solve these problems, ladies and gentlemen. You do not solve the problems of citizens of Serbia, citizens of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, who want to deal with harmonisation, who want to do something when they want to do something about the Bar for Belgrade, that they have no administrative borders and that no one should examine them, who can go with the dinars to Podgorica and buy for the dinars, who will not change their currency at the border and who wants to cross the border between Serbia and Montenegro, the administrative border, that no one asks them to open the trunk to see what they are wearing. That's the state the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro want. Not a country where they will pass the procedure like they are going to Hungary, Croatia or another country. Moreover, we hear that the border with Croatia, since visas have been lifted, is crossing faster than the border between Serbia and Montenegro. Is that the state you're making and what kind of relationships you're harmonising? Did we promise that state to the citizens? Of course we're not; this country has and this harmonisation has a period of time while you're in power. It should serve as a form that you want to respect, so that your ears from the European Union won't twist because you haven't done anything. That's exactly the harmonisation we're talking about here today. If we, as citizens of Serbia, should wait for the European Union to protect our interests and through the European Union we can realise our interests, which advocates that these relations be stronger, that these relationships be better, that communication is more accurate, then what we are talking about here, what intentions we are talking about here. We, as representatives of Serbian citizens, should simply make these citizens protect and give these citizens the opportunity to show that this national community, which has been on trial for three years, can function, but not as a political creation, but as a real need for citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, as a real need for businessmen in Serbia-Montenegro, as a real need for stability in this region and as a real need for our faster integration into the European Union. That's what we have to show for the next three years. With this action plan, we delay any issues we may have to resolve. You who have taken responsibility have transferred that responsibility to those who will be in power in three or five years, because you know that you will not be in that power and that is why it is easier for you to transfer it to those others, you who have taken responsibility for the future of this state community and do everything you can to keep it from working. Why? Because you won't be in power for three years, when that period is over and there will be whether or not there will be a referendum. That's how you delay solving the problem. When solving the problem is delayed it becomes bigger and bigger and in this way we do not contribute to the construction and harmonisation of the relations of these two countries. This way we do not contribute to our faster integration into the European Union. If we agree on our relations within five years, we will only be able to start thinking about membership in the European Union and go with them to conclude agreements in five years, because we have to be a single market, one country to join the European Union. If you looked at a little conclusions from Thessaloniki, you could see it, that countries would join or join the European Union individually. No more collective membership of the Western Balkans or a number of countries from our region. No, it's individual. The false promises you make to the citizens in 2007 are true, because nothing on this issue can begin until the work we were supposed to do today is over. According to you, this job will end in five years and in five years Serbia's future will be significantly different than it can look today. Serbia's prospects in five years, if we don't do the job we're supposed to do today, it's going to be much worse than it is today. If you are talking about such a state and if you are talking about such harmonisation to us, then you promise Serbian citizens to join the European Union in 2015, 2020. You promise them that Serbia will remain isolated here and that it will not have a state with which it will be able to trade uninterruptedly. That's what you promise us and them. Is that what the Belgrade Agreement says? It's not. Did we, like those who supported the Belgrade Agreement, advocate it? No, we've advocated a functional state that will have authority in the area of the economy. You violated the Constitutional Charter in the first step by selecting the Council of Ministers. Your responsibility is that all economic functions in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro are left to the members of the Council of Ministers from Montenegro, external economic relations and internal economic relations. It is your responsibility that through the Council of Ministers we will not have the opportunity to influence the harmonisation of Serbia-Montenegro's relations. You have crossed the Constitutional Charter and some balance that was planned by that Constitutional Charter to share economic relations with one Member State for economic relations with abroad and another Member State for internal relations. You gave it all to representatives from Montenegro to settle your political debts to Boris Tadic, Goran Svilanovic and Rasim Ljajic. We have received an incomplete, dysfunctional Council of Ministers, as Montenegrins lead the most interest in Montenegro, Montenegro's economy and this action plan shows that Montenegro has achieved everything it wants. When Banovic or someone from the Social Democratic Party of Montenegro, which advocates secession, tells me that the action plan is exceptional and extremely good for Montenegro, then I know that there is something wrong for Serbia. If separatists in Montenegro tell me this is good for Montenegro, it means it is not good for Serbia-Montenegro and for the citizens of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, what you're going to do by voting this action plan without accepting the European Union's suggestion to come today or tomorrow, I think something is wrong... (President: 10 minutes. )......................................................................................................... and that something that will only cause conflicts, confrontations, and will not contribute to real and fundamental harmonisation of Serbia-Montenegro's relations, we are primarily referring to customs, foreign trade and the union of the single market, primarily the monetary union. Let this vote serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31937	I hereby conclude the search in principle and in agreement with Article 136(3). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill and Article 1 of the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic submitted. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not there. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment to Article 2 was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The next article 3 was submitted to the amendment by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On the Action Plan, which is an integral part of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Cedomir Jovanovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, want a final word? He's not there. I am concluding a review of the draft law in particular, and as we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day, set for today, on the draft law in principle, in detail and in general. I am informing the MPs that we will begin the vote at 18.45 p.m., when the chairman of the National Assembly, Natasa Micic, will chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31938	I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to elect a member of the Government of Serbia - Minister of Agriculture and Water Management Dr Stojan Jevtic, before moving to a decision, remind you that, according to Article 187 paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal to elect a member of the Government by a secret vote unless the National Assembly decides to hold the vote publicly. Since it has been a practice so far for the election of government members to be held publicly, I propose that the National Assembly on a proposal by the Prime Minister to elect a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia vote publicly - using an electronic voting system. I'm putting a motion to vote. For 130, against 51, six of the 187 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided to make a proposal to elect a minister of agriculture and water economy to vote publicly, using an electronic voting system. I remind you that, according to Article 92(2), paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure, the decision to elect a member of the Government, is considered adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. I put to the vote the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Agriculture and Water Management Dr Stojan Jevtic. For 130, against 54, he did not vote one out of 185 MPs. The SRS are leaving the O.R. [[Applause]] ) I ask the Minister of Agriculture and Water Management, Mr Stojan Jevtic, to enter the hall. Here you go. Allow me to congratulate Mr Stojan Jevtic in his election as Minister of Agriculture and Water Management on your behalf. [[Applause]] Now we will approach the oath, in accordance with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia; I will read and you will repeat. "I swear that in my work I will abide by the Constitution and the law and that I will perform the duties of a member of the government with responsibility and security. "
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31939	I swear that in my work, I will abide by the Constitution and the law and that I will perform my duties as a member of the Government responsibly and securely.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-01-0.u31940	Congratulations again. I'm asking the elected minister to sign the text of the oath and hand it over to the Service. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State AUTHORITIES IN THE SUPPORT OF ORGANISED CRIME I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the control of organised crime, in principle. For 153, against six, nine out of 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic on 1st. Against 123, two abstentions, not 41, out of 166 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Marko Culibrk on 1st. Against 120, it did not vote 45 out of 165 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after article 1. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Against 117, 49 of the 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dragan Todorovic in the same text. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Against 122, 45 of the 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Bogoljub Zecevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 125, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 39, out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 44, out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, in general. For 158, it did not vote nine out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – I am putting the proposal for a law supplementing the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia to vote on the draft law supplementing the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia in principle. For 160, it did not vote seven out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 43, out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The MP, Zivodarka Dacin, submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after Article 1. which is followed by Article 54. The law adds a new name for a new crime and new members of 54b. and 54v. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For one, against 116, there was no vote of 50, out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Ljubojevic and Miomir Ilic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Against 126, 41 of the 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Toma Busetic submitted to the 3rd amendment, in the same text. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Against 126, 42 of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MPs Milovan Radovanovic and Ljubomir Mucic in the same text. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For one, against 121, 46 of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Stevan Kesejic and Marko Culibrk. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Against 123, 45 of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 160, a abstention one, did not vote seven, of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the Predicate Law as a whole. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Violence and Insufficient Behavior in Sport Events Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the bill on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events, in principle. For 161, eight of the 169 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that in the course of the review of the Bills in particular, the peoples of Đura Lazić and Vukosav Tomasevic, in the name of the amendment applicants, withdrew the amendments to Article 18, which they submitted together with the MPs Sreten Mitrovica, i.e. Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and Dragan Šormaz. An integral part of the Bill's proposal became amendments of the People's MPs: - Nebojje Lekovic to Articles 2, with legal and technical regulation of the Defence and Security Committee, 3, 7 and 15. - Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Šormaz and Vukosav Tomasevic on Articles 7, with legal and technical editorial of the Defence and Security Committee and Article 23. We propose to make a decision on the amendments. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Against 127, it did not vote 41, out of 168 MPs. The People's Republic has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted together by MPs Toma Busetic, Momir Radoicic and Sreten Mitrovica. Against 125, it did not vote 42, out of 167 MPs, the National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted jointly by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Against 125, he did not vote 41, out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted jointly by MPs Milan Jankovic and Rade Bajic to Article 3. Against 119, 46 of the 165 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic on Article 3. Against 121, 43 of the 164 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Radojko Petrovic and Nebojsa Jovic. Against 122, 42 of the 164 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 4 by MP Natasa Jovanovic for two, against 122, did not vote 40, out of 164 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radeta, for one, against 118, abstentioned one, did not vote 44, out of 164 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted together by MPs Rada Bajic and Rajko Baralic to article 7. Against 122, 42 of the 164 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 7. Against 119, 44 of the 163 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Nebojsa Lekovic to Article 8. For 35, against 106, a abstentioned one, was not voted 22, out of 164 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic on Article 8. Against 109, 53 of the 162 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted jointly by the People's MPs Golub Rajic and Miomir Ilic. For two, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 45, out of 163. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which were submitted together by MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Šormaz and Vukosav Tomašević. For 32, against 118, 14 of the 164 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic to article 9. For one against 120, it was not 42, out of 163 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted jointly by MPs Miomir Ilic and Dragan Jovanovic. Against 120, he did not vote 41, out of 161 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to article 11. Against 117, 45 of the 162 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Colic on Article 12. Against 117, a abstentioned one, did not vote 44, out of 162 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted together by MPs Joca Arsic and Zivanko Radovanchev. For one, against 119, there was no vote of 43, out of 163 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to article 13. A representative of the government has accepted this amendment. For 134, against five, with three abstentions, was not voted 22, out of 164 MPs. I find that the assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted by the MPs Nebojsa Lekovic, Zlatan Jovanovic and together Branko Ruzic, Djura Lazic and Dragan Jovanovic. For 38, against 104, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, out of 163 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Marko Culibrk and Djura Lazic on Article 15. Against 117, a abstentioned one, not a vote of 45, of 163 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Blazic to article 15. Against 112, 50 of the 162 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic on Article 16. Against 110, it did not vote 53, out of 163 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Nebojsa Lekovic to article 17. For 44, against 102, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 162 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote the amendments tabled together by MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and others. For 38, against 114, 9 of the 161 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 18. Against 119, 43 of the 162 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Kesejić to the title above Articles 19 and 19. Against 121, he did not vote 41, out of 162 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Hranislav Peric and Dragan Todorovic on Article 19. Against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 43, out of 162 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Milovan Radovanovic as member of the 20th. Against 118, it did not vote 44, out of 162 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments, which were submitted to Article 20 together by the MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic and others. For 38, against 117, there was no vote of 8 out of 163 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to article 21. For one, against 111, there was no vote of 50, of 162 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments tabled together by the MPs Radojko Petric and Golub Rajic on Article 21. Against 121, 42 of the 163 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted to article 22 by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Against 117, 46 of the 163 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski to article 23. Against 112, he did not vote 51, out of 163 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. We approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to vote the bill on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events, in general. For 158, six out of 164 MPs were not voted. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – I am putting to the vote the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders, in principle. For 159, five of the 164 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic on behalf of the law and the title of the Head and the "Introductory Provisions" Article 1. For two, against 116, there was no vote of 46, out of 164 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Todorovic as member of the 1st Parliament. I conclude the vote: for one, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 46, out of 164 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic on Article 2. Against 116, 45 of the 161 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Gjorge Mamula and Dragan Jocic on Article 2. I remind you that the Government has accepted this amendment, or a representative of the Government has accepted this amendment. For 149, there was no vote of 14 out of 163 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of the amendment tabled by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Djura Lazic on Article 3 of the same text. Against 120, it did not vote 43, out of 163 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Gjorge Mamula and Dragan Jocic on Article 3. A representative of the government has accepted this amendment. For 146, against two, abstention one, did not vote 14 out of 163. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put on the vote for amendments to the title of Chapter 2. "Organization and jurisdiction of state authorities", the title above Article 4th and Article 4 submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Against 118, there were no 45 votes, out of 163 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Hranislav Peric on Article 4. Against 117, 46 of the 163 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MPs Branislav Blazic and Joca Arsic on Article 5 of the same text. For two, against 114, 47 of the 163 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic on Article 5. Against 115, it did not vote 48 out of 163 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MPs Branislav Vakic and Rade Bajic on Article 6 of the same text. Against 108, it did not vote 50 out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote of the amendment tabled by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Rajko Baralic on Article 7 of the same text. Against 116, 43 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the title above article 8 to the title of the amendment by MP Slobodan Janjic. Against 118, he did not vote 41, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Nebojsa Jovic to Article 8. Against 113, 46 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments, which was submitted to article 9 and to the title above article 9 by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. For one, against 113, 45 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Joca Arsic to article 9. Against 118, he did not vote 41, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendment to the vote on the 10th People's MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Dragana Jovanovic. Against 113, a abstentioned one, did not vote 46 out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MPs Petar Jojic and Ljubomir Mucic on Article 11 of the same text. Against 121, 39 of the 160 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the title of article 12 above article 12 to be put to the vote by MP Stevan Kesejic. Against 114, two abstentions, no 44 votes, out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Sreten Mitrovica to article 12. Against 117, there was no vote of 43, out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of Chapter 3 to vote. "The Rules of Procedure" and on Article 13 submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Against 117, 40 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Djura Lazic on Article 13. Against 116, 41 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MPs Dragan Ljubojevic and Radojko Petrovic on Article 14 in the same text. Against 117, 40 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Gjorge Mamula and Dragan Jocic on Article 14. For 33, against 111, a abstention one, did not vote 14, a total of 159. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the same text in article 15 together by MPs Lazar Marjanski and Dusan Cvetkovic. Against 115, it didn't vote 44, a total of 159. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Dragan Jocic on Article 15. For 32, against 113, abstention one, did not vote 13, a total of 159. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Pavlovic on Article 16. For two, against 105, it didn't vote 52, a total of 159. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic to the title of Chapter 4. "He pays other labour-based rights" and Article 17. Against 105, it didn't vote 54, a total of 159. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Branko Ruzic on Article 17. Against 111, there was no vote of 48, a total of 159. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Vitomir Plužarević and Golub Rajic on Article 18. Against 108, it didn't vote 52, a total of 160. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the amendments to article 19 and the title of Chapter 5, submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Against 110, it didn't vote 49, a total of 159. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic to article 19. Against 110, abstention one, did not vote 46, a total of 157. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 20th vote together by the MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Joca Arsic. With one, against 109, there was no vote 46, a total of 156. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21 and to the name Glava 6 tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic. . For two, against 113, there was no vote 41, a total of 156. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Dragan Colic to article 22. For one, against 109, there was no vote 46, a total of 156. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision in detail, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders, in general. For 153, abstention one, not three, a total of 157. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Action Plan on Harmonization of Economic Systems MEMBER STATES OF THE COUNTRY OF SERBIA AND CREDIT I am putting to the vote the draft law on the action plan for the harmonisation of the economic systems of the Member States of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital, in principle. For 124, against 29, five, a total of 158 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has passed the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Cedomir Jovanovic to the Action Plan, which is an integral part of the bill's proposal. I would like to put to the vote the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic, by the name of the bill and by Article 1. For one, against 119, two abstentions, did not vote 36, a total of 158. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 2. Against 116, abstention one, no vote 39, a total of 156. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet, on Article 3. For one against 120, it didn't vote 34, a total of 155. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft legislation on the action plan for the harmonisation of the economic systems of the Member States of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro in order to prevent and remove obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital in general. For 125, against 27, it didn't vote three, a total of 155. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for an action plan in general. Since we have completed our review of all the points of the agenda and the decision on them, I am concluding the session of the Ninth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003. Thank you for your cooperation and pleasant. I'll see you tomorrow at the 10th extraordinary session.
