ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27260	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. According to official records, 120 MPs attend today's session. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert your identification cards into the MPs. The use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that, unanimously, the decisions on the declaration of state of emergency and points 1 and 9. There will be no direct television transmission of this session, but journalists from the gallery will be able to monitor the course of the session through internal transmission. Another announcement -- you have been given orders by the acting president of the Republic of Serbia on special measures in the area of justice, which are applied during the emergency. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Milan Radulović, Vukosav Tomasevic, Borisvoje Draculaovic and Slobodan Pavlovic; (before noon) Miodrag Stamenkovic. The president, vice-presidents, ministers and the secretary of the government of the Republic of Serbia were invited to attend. Having obtained the conditions, I suggest that I establish the mandate of Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Committee, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament were met, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Dragan Ljubojevic, Milovan Radovanovic, Vjerica Radeti, Branislav Vakic and Dragan Pavlovic, elected from the Serbian Radical Party's election list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Dragan Ljubojevic, Milovan Radovanovic, Verica Radeti, Branislav Vakic and Dragan Slavko Pavlovic. Since we have a quorum to decide on, 163 MPs are present in the room, we are moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 18 and 19 March. Since today's session, as I have observed, has been attended by enough MPs to be able to decide and since the review in the Bureau of the Affairs of the Administrative Board found that none of the MPs delivered in writing an objection to the minutes of the previous session, I am voting on the minutes of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2003, held on 18 and 19 March of this year. For 109, one abstention, 70 did not vote, out of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Since there was no proposal to consider acts of urgency, nor to amend and supplement the agenda, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 102 against 13, it did not vote 65 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft agenda in general. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27261	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS Group, I advertise the violation of members 169 and 229. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to the SPS, the example of breaking the Rules of Procedure is that, since there are no transfers of these sessions, there is no public security in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I read very closely what the powers of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are regarding the state of emergency. Article 229 discusses the place of sitting, the way in which the MPs are invited, the handling of the draft laws, etc. You're not even talking about the right of anyone to shut down the transmission. I believe this is the injured Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If it could possibly be understood why there was no transmission during last session, because of the possible abuse of this tragic murder of the Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic and the insinuation related to the introduction of the state of emergency itself, I don't think there is any rational reason why there is no direct transfer of this assembly today. Namely, in the Order on special measures to be applied during emergency, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia called for points 1 and 9. They read: "1.This command limits certain freedoms and rights of man and citizen established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and determines the special competences of state authorities during emergency; 9. Public information, press disseminating and other information on the reasons for the declaration of emergency and the application of measures at a time of emergency is prohibited, except for the transmission of official statements by the competent state authorities." Please, today we are considering an extremely important, system-based law on pension and disability insurance. This law has nothing to do with the state of emergency, nor do I believe there are any MPs who would try to abuse the cause in the debate on this law and talk about the reasons for the introduction of an emergency. I don't think there's any rational reason why there's no transmission. The story is that the public in the work is provided by the fact that journalists will be able to track through cameras, or these TV receivers within the Assembly, it's a story for small children. It is known that media editors were at a briefing in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that they were told exactly what they could and could not inform, but all this is paradoxical in relation to the very occasion and today's agenda. It is a law on pension and disability insurance, which is extremely important for a very large number of people and has no rational reason why there is no direct transfer of this session of the National Assembly. If that's what you want, then you just have to say - it's forbidden to tell anyone else the right to say anything other than the government's statements. Because in recent days, we have seen more examples of abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27262	Please, time and theme, you're just misusing the pay phone and talking about a state of emergency. I'm warning you both on time and on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27263	Time is another thing, and as far as abuse is concerned, that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27264	There is no violation of Article 169, which actually determines that the sessions of the National Assembly are public. The secret session is when the National Assembly declares it, then we wouldn't be able to have journalists following the session at all. So, they have the right to attend the gallery, they can record parts of the session, and they can also monitor through internal transmission. There is no violation of Article 229 which clearly states that the President of the National Assembly, in the case of war, immediate war danger or emergency, decides on how to work and carry out the tasks of the Service and the National Assembly themselves. Since you are not satisfied, the Administrative Board will respond to the remarks you have made. There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group (by Business).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27265	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would remind you, and I have a concrete proposal, and for that I have come out for a pay phone, that the National Assembly, however, in another assembly, has made a decision and has pleaded that the sessions of the National Assembly are public and that they are directly transmitted. As a result, this congregation would have to declare the issue, to put the decision out of force, it had nothing to do with the state of emergency and the powers of the V.D. The President of the Republic, therefore prohibiting the direct transfer of the session of the National Assembly. In no way can we, as MPs, representatives of the people, endanger the security of the state, and that just shows that the state of emergency is being misused. I ask you to put on the vote to put out the power of earlier decisions, if you feel that the sessions should not continue to be transmitted directly; or otherwise to formulate the proposal, whether they should be transferred, so that the Assembly can declare it, because you cannot assume the prerogatives of the Assembly itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27266	It would be completely pointless to put aside the decisions of the National Assembly if the sessions were public, and this is public, it is a complete difference, except that there is no direct transfer and therefore I will not put such a proposal to the vote. I made the decision, and I said it was under Article 229. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you are not satisfied, the Administrative Board will also respond to your observations. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Pensions and Invalid Insurance (Principles) You have adopted a Bill on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Dragan Rafaelović, Predrag Stojanović, Gvozden Jovanovic, Radoslav Veseinović, Živorad Raković and Bogoljub Zečević; together Dragan Rafailović and Predrag Stojanović; Marko Đurisić; jointly Novica Đurašković and Bojan Kostreš; Leila Ruždić-Trifunović; together Nebojša Jović, Joža Arsić, Toma Bušetić, Golub Rajić, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelović, Rada Bajić, Đura Lazić, Momaža Radović and Žažar Radović; Sretić, Miomir Ilović, Miloštović, Miloš Nešović, Duš Nešković, Dusan Cvetović, Živar Živar Živar Živar Živar Živar, Živar Živar Živar Živar Živar Živar, Živar Živar, Živić, Živar Živić and Živar Živar Živar Živić, Živić Živić Živić Živić, Živić and Živić. Živić Živić Živić Živić Živić. Živić, Živić Živić, Živić, Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Ž. You have received amendments from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Government's opinion on individual amendments. By written amendment, MPs Dragan Rafaelovic and Predrag Stojanovic withdrew to members of the 10th position 3, 13, 16 and 16a, which they submitted on 19 February 2003. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Petar Cvetkovic. At the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Issues of Opinions, MPs Zlata Djeric, Toma Busetic and Đuro Popovic were singled out. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for discussion, shall be five hours and shall be allocated in proportion to the number of Members of the Parliament. I would like representatives of the parliamentary groups to present the lists of registered speakers for this agenda item. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a principled search and ask if the proposing representative, Dr Gordana Matkovic, Social Affairs Minister, wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27267	Ladies and gentlemen, before you there is a bill on pension and disability insurance, which, as it says in the light of the law, is actually the beginning of a reform in this area. If we wanted to start by saying why reforms are necessary, at this point anyway, but also in the last two decades, the demographic reasons dominate -- actually because of them, are constantly working on changes in the pension-inhabitation system and in countries far richer and more developed than our own. Economic reasons have varied over the past decades depending on whether they are related to different domains and movements, not only in the gross social product, but also on the different rights that this law has actually covered so far. First of all, very short on demographic reasons. I think it's known to all ladies, actually, since the mid-60s, we've had a rate of total fertility that's not enough to simply restore the population. As a result of demographic inerts, the consequences of this could not be reflected immediately, but on a long period of time we are in a situation where our ancient pyramid has no form of a pyramid anymore. The relationship between a potentially sustainable population, for which funds should be allocated, in this case, and the working-age population is becoming increasingly unfavourable, and in such conditions they must also be changed in the pension system. I would like to remind you this opportunity, which is extremely important to understand, that we have a current way of funding, which is not the specificity of our country, it exists in almost all countries, but in other countries it represents only one part of the pension system. The current way of funding means that we are now employed for pensions of current pensioners and that is why it is called liquids. There is, in fact, an effect of a flow water heater here. In this way, we today are employed and necessarily insured one day, when we arrive at the appropriate age or if disability occurs, we gain the right to be supported by future taxpayers. Pensioner maintenance, which of course does not mean social protection, involves insurance, but on the current principle. My deep belief is that such funding must remain as one of the pillars in the pension insurance system, and I think I will best illustrate to you the reasons why such funding should remain as one of the elements in the system if I say what is the alternative. The alternative is that there are funds, what some professionals would call real funds, means that we allocate funds to our individual savings accounts, and then, when we come in the right year, if it's about the risk of age, pensions are paid out of those funds. In the meantime, of course, these funds are invested, invested, they increase, and when you gain the right to retire, you withdraw money from your individual savings account. The elements of solidarity in that system do not essentially exist because you withdraw as much as you invest. Secondly, much more importantly, it is that such a system does not allow absolute security in age. Why? In the meantime, these funds can go to waste. I think the best example, like there are in other countries and not just us, is what happened to us in the '90s. If those funds existed in some special accounts, they could have been ruined during hyperinflation years or due to some of the wrong investments. So the current way of funding, as one of the pillars of the system, is necessary to have this absolute security at our age. There will be employees, out of their total earnings, pension funds will be allocated and current pensioners will finance. This system, if compared with other countries, provides relatively minimal but secure income in age, and besides, there are other pillars in that pension system. It is voluntary insurance, which means that you are now really putting money on these individual savings accounts and then withdrawing from them, but it is your free decision whether you will voluntarily secure yourself or not; there is so-called. additional compulsory insurance that exists to a lesser or greater extent in certain countries, to which we will return later. Let's go back to the reasons why reforms are necessary, leaving the view that the current funding system is very important to us as one of the pillars of the system. We have a very high share of pensions in the gross social product. Only to Slovenia's so high separation in the gross social product, in most other countries in transition that share moves between 6% and 10% - I don't think comparing with developed countries is adequate simply because there is a small share in the gross social product because they have other pillars in the system, such as voluntary insurance, where we can't compare. The second reason is the long-term deficit in the Fund. The deficit at the Pension Insurance Fund existed in the '80s and in the 1990s. So we could say what was legally supposed to be covered by the Fund was practically impossible to cover, and then it was the subject of the budget payment or so on. wild matching, where different solutions are found or not all pensions are paid in the course of the year. I think it's extremely bad, first of all for pensioners, because pensioners with low pensions can't survive with 11 instead of 12 pensions, and then they're the biggest losers of such wild coordination. I think that's why it's so important for this area to be arranged so that there's this security. The fact is, we've had a very rapid increase in the number of pensioners. When we look at the relationship between the number of pensioners and employees, it is very unfavourable for demographics, but much more for economic reasons. Not just because we have a small number of employees, even though it's a fact today. There are a relatively small number of people who make contributions to those numbers that are supported from these contributions. Also, the fact is that there were numerous institutes in the system that allowed early retirement, retirement with so-called. the high participation of these young pensioners and there were many benefits in the system, not entering whether they were abused or not. But the question is, what does mandatory insurance have to provide, when you force someone to be compulsory as a state, what does he then need to withdraw from that fund? The fact is, we're almost the only country in the world, according to the data I'm discussing, which has one-third of the disabled pensioners. So there was corruption in the system, and of course you're all familiar with it, but especially in the '80s, even in the '70s; it was very easy to decide that someone could go into disability pension. These liberal retirement conditions have extended throughout the decades and are an important reason why we have such a high percentage of pensioners. Also, it's very unfavourable that there's a high payload. Due to all these obligations not only to pensions, but also to health insurance, tax obligations, payloads are high and therefore the workplace is expensive. As we have seen in the current way of funding, if the job is expensive you are in a situation that employment cannot grow quickly and thus closes the source of pension security. In our terms, it's an extremely high rate of replacement. We've been doing an analysis on 100,000 people who've retired since 1999. On average, their last salary was barely higher than the first pension. It's an unsustainable system that no country can stand. We're moving on to the market economy. This implies, above all, the important difference between the system itself: you no longer have state and social enterprises as dominant and are not relatively small pay gaps between people in different places, regardless of what they were, but today we are facing and we will only face dramatic pay gaps between individual places. We'll see why that's a very important reason to change the system. There is a need to determine what is the subject of pension insurance, social rights and employment, especially disabled people; to distinguish different corpus of rights, given that we are building a market economy, where there are a large number of entities, small enterprises, etc. One of the important reasons for the change is the existence of a gray economy. You are now putting into an unequal situation different "players" on the market by paying mandatory contributions for some types of engagements and not for some. On the other hand, by taking only 10 of the best years in the previous system, you have practically encouraged people to just matter to them how much they contribute for those 10 years. That's what's wrong. This is an attempt to include motives for making contributions throughout the entire working century. Finally, the reason for everyone here is important, it's a sustainable way of funding pensions, which means that when we have low pensions, like today, it's very important that these pensions are funded, that they arrive on time and that they can be paid off. The law before you is the first step or one of the next steps in the system of change or reform of the pension system. At first, I would say what remains unchanged in this law. Pensions of existing pensioners and ways of harmonising them are not changed by this law. Also, it does not change the age limit for retirement; it is 58 years for women and 63 years for men; it remains the possibility of leaving even before reaching the age limit, with it being a full-time job for women 35 and for men 40 years. What remains unchanged are elements of solidarity in the system, starting with a minimum pension and some elements such as compensation for physical damage. According to the previous law, when calculating pensions, women had privileges over men. Women of 35 years of age, provided that the other work characteristics were the same, had the same pension as men who worked for 40 years. If both women and men worked for 35 years, the woman with the same pay and contribution characteristics had 15% higher pensions. This privilege has also been reserved in this bill. I have to say two things: First of all, this law has been the subject of a large number of meetings and reconciliations with the social partners. Social partners, and mostly men in solidarity with women, insisted that this privilege remain. We have accepted that this privilege remains, although we are aware that pension insurance should not solve the problem of women's inequality by ultimately giving her the privilege when she retires, because today, with all that privilege when retirement gets 15% higher pensions than men, women have an average of 20% lower pensions than men. This is because they worked in less paid jobs, which had shorter working hours on average or lower qualifications. If we consistently move to equalising men and women in terms of retirement, the pensions of women for all of these reasons would be significantly reduced according to the new system compared to the previous one. And that wouldn't be a problem if it was a concept and if it was right. The problem is that pensions are now relatively low. That's why these 15% or 20% today can mean something to someone about survival. In line with the poverty reduction strategy, we felt that this request should be accepted by the economic and social partners and that this is not the time to end this privilege of women, but it is important to understand that. An important change in this system is the introduction of a new formula for the calculation of pensions, and means the introduction of a system of points. The personal coefficient for each individual, for each year he worked, is now determined, which is the ratio between his salary and the average salary of all the employees in that year, and this is multiplied by the number of years of internships. This is how the product obtained is multiplied by the value of the general point. The value of the general score practically allows new and old pensioners to remain the same on average, which is one of the constitutional requirements and represents a corrective factor for the fact that instead of 10 best years, an entire working century is introduced. What are the reasons for the extension of the accounting period? The first and important reason is the element of righteousness. In the current system of these 10 best years, it is practical and essential to be overrun by those who have only worked for 10 years in some very good form or who have had some marked career rise, and that is unfair. As you can see, the share of pension in the gross social product is always somewhere on the same level around 15%, so you understand that this must mean spilling. The second is the alignment with other countries and the European Union, and I hope it's not disputed for most of us here that we should go in there. The third important reason is the fight against the gray economy, in terms of incentives for payment of contributions throughout the working century. So we don't think for 10 years before we retire that it's important for us to have the contributions paid. The fourth, in our terms very specific, but it's so important that the maltenes themselves are enough, these are the irregularities that occurred during the 1990s. If you were to ask people who retire now, since the Fund has an obligation to calculate the ten most favourable years, you would see that 90% of them turn out to be the most favourable 1990s. This is essential because these revaluation coefficients in some way contained that element of their own salary ratio to the average salary. Because of the inflation of the 1990s, because of the change in methodology in the calculation of average earnings, what is in the famous forms of M4 actually shows what your salary was and what recorded statistics as average earnings. It turns out that everyone who worked there had a much bigger profit than the average. Of course it must be so, if the average profit of one moment was calculated as the ratio between the total profit mass to the number of employees receiving salaries. Then one minute we said no, the average profit is now a mass salary to everyone, who receives and does not receive wages. Of course, those who received salaries then had to have three and four times the coefficients in their forms compared to the average earnings recorded by statistics. If we look at these two elements together, we can say that this method for short term is financially neutral. On the mid-term, it brings an increase in the difference between the last salary and the first pension. Also, to a much greater extent, it connects the internship with a later pension, even with this internship over 40 years, increasing the amount of pension. Then, much more precisely, it determines the difference in pension levels depending on the work history of each individual. We think he's also incentivized in terms of the gray economy. What does the reckoning show? The simulation was practically carried out on some 100,000 pensioners who retired under the old law and compared their pensions to make them look like new laws. The calculation has practically shown - and don't forget that there is this corrective factor that practically irons that translation so that the pensions on average don't decrease, because if someone loses, someone has to and gets, it's very important to remember - pensions are lower for those who have had a marked rise in career and high earnings, but only in one part of that career. On average, they are lower for those who would have a pension somewhere almost 50% higher than the average. There are individual situations where a man, both old and new, has the same thing, even old, there are 20,000 and new 22,000, because in the course of his entire work history or most of his work, he was at jobs where his salary was much higher than the average, and then it is reflected in the same way in his pension. The second change, also significant, is that mandatory insurance has to be paid from now on for everything that is income from work. So, including the obligation to pay when it comes to youth cooperatives; indeed, only those at regular schooling and up to the age of 26 can be released. It is paid when it comes to contracts for work, copyright fees, with the fact that, of course, there is a ceiling that does not have to be paid. This is essential because it also reduces incentives for the gray economy. As long as there is some group of employers cheaper, he will, of course, try to avoid paying off such contributions. This essentially leads to discrimination of certain forms of work, from the aspect of social security. Visa many people are not socially insured and engaged in a gray economy. This balances all costs for all forms of work, and it is also extremely important now from the aspect of creating equal conditions for employers on the market. It reduces the grey economy and more evenly allocates the funding burden to all insurance companies. When it comes to disability pensions, there is also a major change in the criteria for obtaining disability pensions, which in this law set the concept of general disability, on the one hand. On the other hand, those rights relating to wages for the reduction of working ability, practically as rights, are no longer present in the law, by safeguarding and introducing a regular revision of the right to invalidity pension due to major potential and essential abuses. I think that's one of the questions we're going to discuss most during this principle debate, given the amendment. There's got to be a chance to say more about it. When it comes to farmers, it is also one of the topics that has been discussed in both the public and the MPs. What the government eventually accepted and amended is that only one member of the household is required to be provided in agriculture. There are, of course, the opinions of many MPs that this insurance should be voluntary. When we analyzed, both earlier and now, the biggest poverty in Serbia today, and not just today, it is when someone over 65 is and if there is no income. That's a fact. We thought this was security, that at least one member of the household had a pension tomorrow. After his death that there are rights to a family pension, which is important in the long term and in the face of poverty. Of course, the big problem was the accumulated debt in this system, which is why many farmers have practically not paid their contributions, because once you get into a debt trap, then it's hard to get out of it. We have proposed that these debts be paid off, i.e. farmers cancel out of insurance back in 1996 when these debts occurred. Of course, in return, they don't count on that period as an internship. A simple thing that hasn't been paid for can't be counted on as an internship. By making sure that everyone else, including those who want to cover some period of their internship, can do so voluntarily at the current rates and bases. The concession for farmers is to set footings and foundations once a year, so that they know exactly what they are in the course of one year, so they can plan their commitments more easily. The amount of pensions in this insurance is determined in the same way as in other insurances. What's also a newspaper is that there is a possibility of so-called voluntary entry into security. A whole voluntary insurance complex must be regulated by a special law, because it implies the entry of new private funds, capitalised savings accounts, financial markets and so on, but this law gives the possibility that those who wish to be voluntarily provided can, on election grounds, do so by making contributions back from 1999, when there are these minimum bases that can then be used to make contributions, i.e. pay. The main objective and expected effect is a stronger link between the contributions paid and the pension level, as well as the equalisation of the positions of all those in the system, the separation of the social protection Corps from the employment rights corpus. Everyone is also expected to have an important effect - stabilising the system in the long run and allowing pensions to actually be paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27268	Do the representatives of the committees want a word; the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( b) Do the MPs who issued an opinion on the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Đuro Popovic, and after that, MP Toma Busetic, as MPs, who held opinions at committee meetings.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, I have issued an opinion on the proposed legislative solution on pension and disability insurance, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to us for adoption. In particular, the proposal to adopt an emergency procedure is, at the very least, inconclusive. According to Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the law can be extremely passed by emergency procedure, if the law regulates issues and relations arising from circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of laws by emergency procedure, could cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the safety of the country, the work of organs and organisations. However, in the light of the proposal for a law, the reasons why this law is proposed by an urgent procedure, and they do not justify it. It said: "The changes in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia (in the areas of labour relations, financing pension and disability insurance and the tax system), it is entirely an affirmed gross earnings system instead of a net profit system. The introduction of gross earnings necessarily requires changes to the pension and disability insurance system that has so far been based on the principle of net earnings. "It does not indicate that the adverse consequences would cause this law to be passed by an emergency procedure. The Soviet Parliament Group will not give the green light to the proposed legislative act, which has given us the Government of the Republic of Serbia for adoption for the following reasons. This legal act abolished a large number of rights; the possibility of exercising any disability rights other than the right to a disability pension, which can only be achieved by an insurance company with which a complete loss of working ability arises. This means, in practice, that all rights on the basis of a reduction in working capacity, i.e. remaining working capacity: 1) on requalification or qualification; 2) on the allocation, i.e. on other relevant work hours; 3) on the corresponding number of cash charges relating to the exercise of those rights, which have been established to provide material and social security for disabled workers while using these rights, or until they are re-scheduled or re-occurred, or until they are entitled to a disability or retirement pension. All rights for the risk of disability have been abolished and that: 1) to requalification or qualification; 2) to deploy to another relevant full-time job; 3) to appropriate cash benefits in relation to the use of those rights. In the transitional provisions of the Law on Founded Users of those Rights, as well as for users of the rights on the basis of the so-called other disability, part-time work, if those rights have been achieved by 1 January 1997, solutions that are unacceptable in our opinion are proposed; instead of guaranteeing the rights already achieved, it provides for their translation into new rights, in part a disability pension, that is, Article 224 or temporary cash compensation, Articles 225 and 226. The reasons do not show whether these rights are more favourable or unfavourable for users. These solutions are contrary to the principle of protection of rights acquired, i.e. they are contrary to the provisions of Article 24. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which rights acquired under the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act cannot be taken away or restricted. If the proposed solutions, which certainly correspond to employers, were adopted from the date of entry into force of this law, they would not have had any new insurance workers with disabilities, or even in cases of injury, or injury to work or occupational illness. A new formula for determining the height of an old disability pension has been proposed from the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of the Republic of Croatia, and it is particularly important to stress that profits are taken to determine the amount of these pensions, i.e. the basics of insurance starting on 1 January 1970, instead of the current pension insurance, where they form the basis of earnings, profit benefits, i.e. the basis for ensuring the consecutive ten best years of insurance and starting from 1 January 1970. Given the reasons set out above, as well as many others who are not mentioned, given the limited time we have at our disposal, the Assembly Group will not vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27270	I am obliged to remind the MP that the draft law, which is currently under way, is not an emergency procedure. The government has taken off the mark urgently, deadlines have run for the weekend and, when adopting the agenda, the National Assembly president stressed that there is no proposal for an emergency procedure, a stenogram and a fact-finding process. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word. Are any of the other MPs, who have issued an opinion at committee meetings, reporting for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since there is no TV transmission, I am thinking of contributing to the discussion, and there was no Minister Matkovic. However, since the minister is here now, I will give it up and I will say why I voted out my opinion on the Committee on Labour and Employment. We have before us a call for reform law. DOS calls all these laws in the field of labour and social legislation reform, of course, in these other areas. According to us from the SPS, there's nothing reform here, not in those other laws, like the Labour Act, the Privatisation Act, and there's nothing reform law on pension and disability insurance. There are a number of restrictions, restrictions, suspension or abolition of rights everywhere, somewhere workers, employees, this is about pensioners, present and future. This law, first of all, applies to future pensioners. However, current pensioners have already experienced a reform of previous legislative activities both by the ministry and the finance ministry. I would only remind you that the famous formula is the god of Djelic, so-called. The Swiss formula, according to which pensions are coordinated three months with 50% wage growth and 50% of the cost of life growth, led to the situation that today's average pension is 60% compared to the average salary. If this system continues and is applied in the future, we will most likely be in such a position that the average pension is below 50% of the average salary. These are the major reforms that are very restrictive for current pensioners. Here, Mrs Matkovic said that nothing changes when it comes to retirement conditions. Well, that's already changed. We've sharpened those conditions in three years. I don't know when it was, maybe a year ago. He shouldn't have been in such a hurry to sharpen those conditions. In all these called reform laws, even in this, there are some crucial provisions that de facto and laws are passed. This provision is crucial in Articles 61 to 70, which refer to the way and the system of pension accounting. According to these solutions, we'll have such a reckoning to consider the entire working century instead of the 10 most favourable years. There is no logical explanation that this system is more favourable or even fairer. In each factory, there are 10 most favourable years in each institution. And for workers, for engineers, for directors, for cleaners, for professors and doctors, there are ten of the most favourable years. This solution can't even be fair, because what are we going to have after this law? Whoever has a small one will be left with pensions like that, and who currently has a medium or higher pension -- 15, 20 grand, even though we know that these funds are not God-knows-what -- gets significantly smaller pensions. That's the essence of this law - to cut the funds needed for the Fund. What is important and what has to be said, each current pensioner has received 10,000 dinars in this accounting system, this Djelic formula, on average in 2002, that's what careful analysts calculated. The minister and government must know that these solutions will not improve the situation. To improve the situation of pensioners is not an exit to the adoption of such laws. The way out is, first of all, to start production, to hire people, to have new jobs. The bottom line is, even in 1995, we had the original funds of contributions. The participation of the original funds was 86% and the participation of donations was 14%. Now, by the way, we've got half-and-a-half, and we know what donations are. Donations are from the budget. Yesterday on the board, I spoke to the minister and said there was a situation in some countries where the IMF, which dictates everything, said no more budget donations when it comes to the pension fund. Then we get to the situation: how much money, how many pensions. Then we will come to the conclusion that future pensioners will have nothing, since production has fallen, there are no new jobs. I'm a little longer. I've got five minutes. So there are a number of restrictions, this law is very bad for everything, and we won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27272	The word has the minister of social affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27273	I'd like to remind you of a few facts. In January 2001, the first pension amounted to 3,000 dinars. I'm talking about average pensions, it's so low today, and it's an average of 8,000 dinars. So if we're looking at the average pension in 2001, it was 4.350 dinars. I've got a retirement pay-out table and anyone can get it. In 2002, it was 6,500 dinars, up from 50%. It can't be said that the pensioner's standard is compromised. As for the coordination and movement of pensions, our deep confidence, as responsible governments, is that these parameters must be consistent with our capabilities. As I was saying at the outset, it's the worst, because the poorest pay the most, if we have so-called. Wild alignment, thus we will have irregularities, non-payments or payments less than 12 pensions a year. As for the IMF and the budget donations, we talked about it yesterday. It's not about how far out the budget is, as much from the contribution. It's about the total public expenditure on pensions. They're too big. Every third dinar that is collected on any basis in this country, whether they are total taxes, wages taxes or health contributions, is going away for pensions. That's what this is about. Finally, is 10 best years the best for everyone? If the value of the general score is determined so that the mass of pensions remains the same, then if someone loses, someone has to win. According to a new reckoning, those who were on average low.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27274	I would like to thank the representatives of the proposer. Do any of the other MPs, who, at committee meetings, have issued an opinion, want a word? He doesn't want to. ) We continue the principle debate according to the application for the word of the president of the parliamentary groups. MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, first registered.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27275	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mrs Matkovic, the Serbian Assembly today discusses an extremely important system law on pension and disability insurance, which directly affects and defines the quality of life of a very large number of people in Serbia. The pension insurance rights in different funds today are around a million and a half users, which in itself speaks to which attention must be given to reforming the pension and disability insurance system, because it must be taken into account first of all the life standard of the oldest population, which has created all of this and what is surrounding us, but also the means needed for pension and disability insurance users and their savings, if possible and as much as possible, and of course not to be at the heart of the user's standard of living. When looking at the content of the proposed law on pension and disability insurance, the solutions offered by the law, assess the consequences of these solutions per user, then it can be concluded that the proposed law is not good, that it is unfair by character, restrictive, in part of the provisions contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that it reduces the level of consumer rights, that it retains last year's solutions which proved to be poor and unacceptable for pensioners. Then, his sole and ultimate goal is to reduce the resources that are allocated to pension and disability insurance users, and beyond their backs, which is unacceptable for us SPS deputies and we will not therefore vote in favour of this draft pension and disability insurance law. For the promoter, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the reduction of funding for pension and disability insurance is the main motive for introducing a new method for determining pension levels. According to the Government's assessment, the share of pension expenditure in the social product is unacceptablely high, it needs to be reduced, as the government says, by reforming the system; it is necessary to reduce or abolish too many liberal elements in the system, which is the average of receiving from the best of any ten consecutive years of work, as the formula for calculating pensions; it is not possible to return the method of monthly harmonisation of pensions with earnings, although the impact of the existing provisions for pensioners has proved extremely poor, catastrophic. The government of the Republic of Serbia itself acknowledges that the difficulties of providing pension funds began decades ago, that the permanent deterioration of the relationship between the number of employees and the number of pensioners in Serbia, from six to one in the early 1960s, to 1.6 employees per pensioner, is what the situation is today. Whether this relationship is going to change better, it's hard to expect. One reason is demographic, the minister mentioned, the ageing population of Serbia; the other (many more important) is economic, and this is an economic picture of Serbia today. The government will not say that in the light of the bill's proposal, but knows that the economic situation is extremely bad in Serbia and therefore proposes new restrictive solutions. Economic poverty and the social uncertainty of citizens are increasing, economic activity is stagnation and all indicators do not suggest a near exit from the crisis. In January 2003, a fall was recorded in all sectors of production by 21% compared to December last year. The biggest concern is the 28% drop in production in key sectors of the economy, whose participation is in the creation of a total social product and the largest. Business debt amongst themselves takes on the general indifference situation. Last year's deficit reaches $4 billion, the state and economy owe foreign creditors about $15 billion. When this data is taken into account, it can be concluded that the economy is rapidly losing its reproductive capacity and society in general economic independence, which directly affects the reduction of the inflow of the funds needed to operate the pension and disability insurance system. According to statistical indicators, about 2 million people live below the existential minimum, due to a steady and inappropriate increase in electricity prices, housing costs, transport, treatment, basic living needs. Nearly a million people, according to the labour market records, have no employment, and according to government estimates, about 700,000 more people are fictitiously employed and they represent new overnumbers that will be the first to be hit by transformations, i.e. transition processes to come. For the problems of this vast army of unemployed governments, there is no solution. New jobs only appear in plans, projections of future development, for which there is no real basis. It is, in fact, a condition for the successful functioning of the pension and disability insurance system. Development, the creation of new jobs, an increase in the number of employees, an increased inflow of employees' salaries, which is not now available, therefore it is no wonder that half the population lives under 18 years in poverty, that 1.2 million pensioners exist in poverty, affected by the existing pension coordination system. The existing pensioners are extremely difficult, the new ones will be even harder. A new methodology of pension accounting, where the accounting period extends from ten years to a lifetime of work, if the bill is adopted, and all the opportunity to, will, we are sure, in a more unfavourable position of future pensioners than pensioners under the applicable law. The existing solution provided an opportunity for anyone to spend a good part of the working century in a bad or low-paying company, if at least a decade has a better salary, to get a better pension. Now it's over. The objectively, it will be very difficult for generations from the 1950s and 1960s, after they skipped the 70s that were considered golden years, if they had just started working then their wages were low; if they lived and worked in the 1980s, when the economic crisis had already begun to shake the former Yugoslavia, of course, Serbia. Especially difficult, continuously, will be to those who worked in the 1990s when we had: economic sanctions by the international community and, as a consequence, the termination of the work of a large number of enterprises; then, the reduction of capacity utilisation, the number of employees, the payment of low earnings; and then wars in the environment, inflows of refugees, bombings, etc.; means, an extremely difficult economic situation and certainly a bad retirement base. I am convinced that even the first decade of the 21st century, which we are now experiencing, will be difficult economics, and that the only reason for this situation will be transition. For the generations I mentioned, retirement, if they reach it at all, will be a social category, not a way to ensure a safe age. It'll be more important where they worked, in public enterprises, EPS, NIS and so on, than what, how or what they did. It is known that some branches are already chronically in a difficult position, I would mention textiles, people from education, too, in scientific and research centres. They'll certainly be the part of the population that won't have a good pension. The SPS does not accept a new way of calculating pensions, based on points and where the accounting period extends to the entire working century. We therefore do not accept the proponent's explanation, especially the appeal to the principle of justice, because there is certainly no place for him here. The government uses the principle as it suits it, depending on whether something should be criticised or supported. It is also fair for employees to own the capital of the companies they created, so the Government put them aside by the Privatisation Act, not only when it comes to the majority capital of the company, but cannot affect either coma or at what price their company sells. For the SPS, it is not acceptable to agree in the law that pensions are in line with the cost of living and the movement of earnings in relation to 50:50, instead of, as previously, just the movement of profits. In this way, pensioners are severely damaged, as despite the constant price growth, statistics show a low cost of living, which retains pension growth. As a result, an increasingly unfavourable relationship is being established from month to month between average earnings and average pensions. Retirement is not the right from the social protection system, but the right acquired by work and by work, so the pension has to be tied exclusively to the level of earnings. The cost of life is no impact on the level of profit, so they can't be of an impact on the amount of pension.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27276	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27277	Yeah. For pensioners, it is not good for pension coordination to be performed three months, because this is also the way to keep pensions at a lower level. In 2002, pensions were aligned with profit and cost of living compared to 50-50. In addition, coordination was performed three months, not every month. The cost of living by statistics did not grow, or grew negligiblely, so they did not significantly affect pension increases, and profits affected with one half of their growth. If pensions were in line only with profit growth, and every month, pensions would be much higher today, so in December 2002, which is the basis for reducing pensions due to lower average earnings in January, would ensure that pensions are no less than pensions in December 2002, regardless of the reduction. Since earnings will certainly grow in February and March, pensions would be higher by the system of harmonisation each month and according to the growth of earnings, not the cost of living, than they would be if they were aligned according to the existing system. These claims can prove a simulation of pension growth towards the previous and current solution, and then there will be a justification for the need for monthly pension coordination with profit developments. The best proof of the value of monthly pension coordination, without any simulation, is real life, trade, prices and what anything can or cannot be bought for a certain amount of money. Let each of us go to any market with a certain amount of money, so let's ask ourselves what he could buy a year or two ago and what he can buy today with the same money, therefore he will also get an answer on how to adjust pensions. The poor restrictive solution in the bill, which we are considering, is also the one relating to disability pension, which practically eliminates all rights based on reduced, or residual work capacity. What is the fate of workers whose hard working conditions have led to a partial loss of their ability. A chemical industry worker, who, due to various chemical resources and their influence on man, can no longer work on these jobs, is an example of being allergic, but he can work on other jobs; or a mine worker, ironworks, construction industry can no longer work at the place where he worked, in the underground spear, in the oven, etc., but he can work on other jobs -- it would be logical that such workers, if there was no complete job loss, could and should work on other jobs towards the remaining work capacity, because these jobs do not result in further deterioration of the health status of workers. Under this proposal, the law does not provide for rights based on reduced working capacity. That's the opposite of Article 40. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is prescribed that, in addition to other things, compulsory insurance by employees under the law provides themselves with the right to reduce or lose their workforce. So the rights based on the reduction in work capacity are constitutional categories. The Labour Act of Article 78 provides that the employed person is to be employed in accordance with the rules on pension and disability insurance, the employer is required to ensure that the work is carried out according to the remaining work capacity and, on the basis of the risk of disability, to ensure that another relevant job is carried out. Since this proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance no longer provides for rights on those grounds, although it is provided for by certain international conventions ratified by our country, which should therefore also be an integral part of our legislation, it frees the employer of those obligations. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that pension and disability insurance should retain the right to financial compensation for assistance and care, as insurance companies had the right in the existing pension and disability insurance system. The removal of this right from the pension and disability insurance system in the Social Protection Act is unacceptable because it is not a social category. This is because active insurance and pension rights beneficiaries in the current pension and disability insurance system have been secured on this right and have paid appropriate contributions in this respect. Thus, when obtaining and exercising the right to cash compensation for assistance and care, insurance and pensioners and beneficiaries cannot be equalised with categories of citizens covered by the Social Protection Act, because this is a right to work, i.e. not a social category. Denial of these rights, based on the remaining work capacity, on the financial compensation for the assistance and care and others I did not mention and contained in the law, is contrary to the provisions of Article 24. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that the rights acquired under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act cannot be withdrawn or restricted, means that these rights should be exercised even after the entry into force of this law, but under conditions and in a manner established by those regulations, and not by this law. The law is restrictive in cases of disability caused by illness and injury outside work for young insurance workers up to 30 years of age. When disability is created until the age of 20, a person is entitled to a disability pension only if he has a year of insurance. So far, that condition has never existed. When disability is created up to the age of 25, the right to a disability pension is obtained only if it has two years of insurance training. An earlier condition was a nine-month insurance service. When disability is created up to the age of 30, the right to a disability pension is obtained only if it has three years of insurance training. Back in the day, it was a year of insurance. If these conditions are compared to the number of young unemployed people and the inability to employ them, due to the difficult economic situation, they will be seen to be practically invaluable. There are other examples that confirm that this law is not qualitative, neither consistent, nor systematic. Let me mention another example in favor of that. This is an extension of insurance coverage by compulsory insurance by including work through youth and student cooperatives, except for under 26 years of age who are in regular schooling, including work contracts and others. The 26-year-old limit should be deleted so that the standard laid down in Article 11 applies to all students. When it comes to the procedures for reporting and checking-out of data for the parent records of the Pension Insurance Fund for cases of labour engagement in occasional and temporary transactions, the labour contract and the like, this obligation is irrational and constitutes unnecessary costs and administration without a positive effect for insurance and state. It is more rational to prescribe that the application and check-in of the Fund for these jobs is carried out periodically and cumulatively for the past period. Contributions could be paid on a regular basis on each payment, only the records need to be rationalised. A contribution for pension insurance for a member of a youth and student cooperative is paid twice. Once on the burden of the insurance company and for the second time on the burden of the employer, i.e. the cooperative as a payer. While only one contribution to the burden of the insurance undertaking is paid for operations carried out through a contract of work. The level of contribution to the work of members of youth cooperatives should be reduced or levelled with contributions to the specific labour contract. The application of the provisions should be simultaneous and not so on. Dear fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have presented several systemic and other reasons why we believe this law is not good, that in application it will cause bad consequences for pension and disability insurance users. I have provided a number of reasons why we believe that this law has not shown its values in practice and why the SPS MPs will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27278	The word has the minister of social affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27279	I'm going to try to answer those questions that I haven't asked before. When we look at the ratio of average pensions and average earnings, since you've commented on how this relationship is getting worse, I'm just going to ask you when you're looking at the average pension -- these are people who've worked full-time for only 15 years, 20 years and a short period of time, whether it's normal for the average pension to be like the average salary. When it comes to synchronising, I must remind you that the adjustment to the profits went down when the profits started to fall, when more of these profits couldn't withstand the pension burden, so it had to be said that when the profits were cut, pensions had to be reduced as well. Finally, the thing I want to pay attention to, too. Article 40. The Constitution says - to compulsory insurance (not retirement but compulsory), employees, in accordance with the law, provide themselves with the right to health care and other rights for illnesses, pregnancy, childbirth, reduction or loss of employment, unemployment, age and the right to other forms of social security, and for members of their family - the right to health care, the family pension, as well as other social security rights. So it's about the entire compulsory insurance corps, what the Constitution is talking about. When it comes to reducing their ability to work, these people have reduced their ability to work, but they can still work. The question arises which law should regulate their rights, no matter how we formulate them? Should this be paid from the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund or should those rights be regulated by employment laws, employment of persons with disabilities and others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27280	Thank you. Do MPs want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27281	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unfortunately, here are only MPs of the opposition and a very small number of the ruling majority, who should take up support for the government's bill. In order to understand the reasons for the adoption of a new pension and disability insurance law, we have come from the arguments given by the government, listened carefully to the Secretary-General's exposés, and therefore concluded that the current pension and disability insurance system is an important obstacle to the country's economic recovery and progress due to high burden on contributions, as the system is based on the ongoing financing of pensions. I cannot agree with this, nor Serbian Radical Party MPs, that the pension and disability insurance system is an obstacle to economic recovery, because it is exactly the opposite case - economic and political opportunities affect what the pension and disability insurance system will be. The current pension financing system exists almost everywhere in the world, in Europe for sure. And we've been adopted so-called. Central European or Kaiser's system, which has shown certain shortcomings, although not only in our country but also in all those countries where there have been persistent economic disturbances or there has been a war environment. And that's the drawback. There are other systems in the world. In America, we have this so-called. individualist system. In China, we know that companies pay their pensions, so the state has nothing to do with it, not even the insurance companies themselves. In Japan, there is this feudal concept, where particular value is given to the loyalty of a particular company, the company went up or down, workers from generation to generation work, remain loyal to that company, and this is reflected in pension and disability insurance. There's a feeling that the government wanted to take someone's concept and apply it to our terms, but that concept probably didn't get it right, because it's best for our chances to accept some combined concept that would give the best results. The resolution minister here is more involved in demographics than in pension and disability insurance, at least when it comes to reasoning, and also in exposure to the fact that the problem arises from the ageing population, when the number of pensioners increases faster than the number of taxpayers. Even though life span is extended. That's what science told us, and that's not what we or the government deserve. It is also true that people start doing everything later, both because of economic opportunities and because of the desire for full and higher education. But the reasons for that are multiple, and as we can see, the consequences. It's a good thing people live longer, just to have and to create conditions for them, which is the obligation of the state, to live through that age and dignity. Because of general economic and social opportunities, and I would say political opportunities, in a country where there are millions of unemployed, where the health insurance system is such that it is necessary to transform, therefore this law cannot be considered on its own. It is not individualistic to look at it, but online to all laws that regulate social issues, contained in the rights set out in Article 40. The Constitution. We're told 30% of all pensioners are disabled pensioners. We can assume how much part of their pensions pensioners single out for treatment and medicine, and often, unfortunately, they are in a position to support their already grown children with such low incomes. We're getting information that the share of pension expenditure in the gross social product is up to 15%. You don't have to complain to us but to realize that the gross social product is small and that there's something in the state to do, to bring some economic measures, to make the gross social product bigger, so it wouldn't have that much importance, and that percentage would fall. You're saying that in the '90s there were 2.5 employees on one pensioner, and today he's 1.6 employees on one pensioner. I don't know why you're taking a parameter in the '90s, I'd rather take 2000 or 2001, and I'm wondering why this material isn't the Government or the Resort Minister delivering a study, which would allow us to monitor the pension-inhabitation movement from year to year, at least since 1970, of which a pension internship is starting to count, or for which period pensions are being calculated. Salaries are burdened with taxes and contributions. That's what we told you when we were passing a package of tax-problem laws. The government argues that they, without changing the pension and disability insurance system, would still have to increase. Perhaps if the government is sure that there will be no increase in employment, that the economy will not start to grow and develop, we will also have a further dubiosis in the economy and an even greater number of unemployed. It's a causal-consequential relationship, but we shouldn't have system law to pass for today, for tomorrow, for the next year, especially given the degree of pension-involvement insurance, but a law that would apply in the next 100 years, possibly with some small changes, additions or upgrades. When a law like this is passed, only employees start thinking about how to secure their age, how much pension they're going to have, whether it's worth it to get them to work as soon as they finish high school or finish college and then start working. Because the way pensions are accounted for and it doesn't pay a man to start working young for a minimum wage; or it's worth it, but on the condition that everything he receives pays into this investment fund, like the third degree of insurance, which we don't have yet, but it's a question of when we're going to have it. And that's where we come up with the basic question -- what is the vision of the future and whether the government has it at all; or if you've taken over something other than that, and you haven't quite understood it, and you've called it a system law. I claim responsibly because I have compared legal standards with existing republican and federal law, that the existing law could be corrected with 20 new members and that there was no need to pass such a law. This isn't a system law. There is also a need for certain rights to be transferred from pension and disability insurance rights to other areas, such as health insurance or any other form of social security, but before that should be cleared up and found an answer to the basic question, whether pension is a social category or is it a right arising from a working relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27282	Do you want to use the next ten minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27283	Yes, in continuity. We, Serbian radicals, believe that retirement is a social category and that it should then monitor the cost of life, that is simply logical, not a labour relationship right, which would mean that it should then monitor the average profit. There is no concept here, and we have heard from the minister that this is rather a labour relationship right, but a social category, because if we look back at Article 15, we will see that a man can and can not be in a working relationship, and that he is paying contributions and then exercising his post-retirement right. The second crucial question to be answered, in order to have a clear vision, a clear situation and then immediately offered solutions, is the property issue of the PIO Fund. That's what I'd like to hear from the minister, what is the position, whether the PIO Fund is an investment fund, some specific investment fund or something else that we don't know what it is. Is the state (Milka, I do not speak to you, I speak to the messengers) so we do not know (Milka Marinkovic: what you have stolen. Is it an investment fund? Is the state at its disposal? I'm in the way, please, will you warn her...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27284	Please don't throw it to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27285	I'm talking about very serious matter here. If anyone wants to talk to me in person, they can talk to me in the hallway later, if I do so. The promoter thinks, that's at least an impression, when you go from member to member to member to classifying this bill, just about how much income, what obligations are and how much the state doesn't have to add anything. It was the basic idea of a guide in proposing ovaxacone. It is true that the state has an obligation and that it is guaranteed, but how it will provide these funds, it is entirely her business, given the constitutional provisions, even from taxes, can even be regulated. We're gonna tax everything, I don't know what rate, all the money goes into the state budget, and we're taking on ourselves to pay off our pensions. We obviously didn't, nor did the government define ourselves as such, but still retains the PIO Fund and we accept that, we just want to know whose money it is and what kind of property it is. I think it's been missed at this point that this PIO system develops this mixed system, because it's obvious that the urgency was to develop a degree and a mixed PIO system. The way he's imagined, he won't know for sure I'm never gonna live. This third degree of insurance isn't even worked out. It was left to some special law to elaborate and regulate. When? We really don't know that. He would also have how important it would be and it would be perfectly normal for it to be discussed in a package with this law. It's about a long stick, and I don't think you'll have time to deal with that problem this year. All year long they will only talk about changing the Constitution and nothing concrete will be done. In some ways, it goes to damage both current and future insurance companies, which is already not enough for themselves to provide insurance in case of age or disability pensions. We know that some alleged funds exist in Serbia right now, there's some insurance, I don't know exactly what it's called, there's some Winner Broker insurance, so now there's some Danube TBI. We see that they're postering and they represent it as a PIO fund, but it's not and it can't be it; if it is, by what law. It's life insurance, but it shows that our citizens are interested in that third degree of insurance, and that's why we had to offer them, if we wanted, a system-wide solution to that problem. The promoter also has an impression, does not understand what is mandatory pension and disability insurance. Mandatory insurance is provided by employees with resources for age, illness and unemployment. That's not the case here, and I'm not going back to Articles 39, 40 and 55. A constitution that guarantees it, especially when it comes to disability pensions. It is a minimum that must be provided through the commitment of the state, a minimum of derived rights that do not fall within the elemental human rights, but is derived from a group of human and civil rights. Therefore, the state should stimulate supplementary forms of insurance, regardless of the rights of every citizen to social protection in the event of age and disability. The law knows mandatory social security, and necessarily insured persons under the bill are employees, self-employed insurance and farmers. We Serbian radicals are absolutely against the obligation of farmers to pay contributions and to become necessarily socially secure for these cases. They must leave this possibility provided for in Article 15. It means they decide whether or not to engage in mandatory social security. Article 16 on voluntary PIO has not been worked out at all. It's just the three attitudes they're talking about. In an explanation, the minister did not say when the state plans, i.e. The government is planning to suggest that this problem be settled as well. In Article 18 of the Law of PIO, the case of age, disability, death, physical damage caused by work injury or professional illness. What about those who have physical damage or injury that has not been or have not happened at work, if it is not the result of a professional illness; therefore, a man is sick and unable to work, what will happen to him. When it comes to disability pensions, it is only because of changes in the health condition caused by work-related or out-of-work injuries that cannot be removed by medical rehabilitation, but it does not respond to what to those with reduced workability. There is now an expression of the weakness of the Labour Act, which does not actually protect any rights of workers. No more deployments to other jobs or anything like that. All those who are not absolutely healthy can expect cancellations, because employers do not need them, and they cannot be attacked from the point of view of private property and rental labour. The state has to find a way to provide minimum protection, if not through the pension and disability insurance system, then in some other way. We can't get a private owner of a corporation to get a worker to schedule some other jobs, and he's no longer capable of doing his job. It's clear, but the state has to think about it, it had to exist in the Labour Act to solve the problem and those people. The right to compensation for physical damage is reduced, only in case the physical damage is caused by work injury or professional illness, and there is an expression of the inequality of the insurance company. Here, I end, chapter eight - Establishing the height of the pension disability insurance rights - we have requested the amendment to be completely deleted, that it is a complete failure, in the hope that we will thus put additional pressure on the government to withdraw such a law, to define and that this vision of how it should regulate pension and disability insurance in the future offers a completely new solution. The MPs of the SRS have tabled 30 amendments, because they felt that amendments could not be fully corrected, it is a conceptual failure, and in particular we will tell you everything we have regarding this law, but we will certainly not vote in favour of such a proposal from the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27286	The word has the Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27287	Very briefly, it is a social pension paid out of the budget for everything, unrelated to whether or not they paid insurance, because it is a serious issue and it implies that everyone over 65 is actually paid out of the budget. So, the moment you fill out your age, and if you don't have any income, then you have the right to a social pension. That would be very good, because it exists in some developed countries, but it simply never existed in this country and for which there is no possibility of being introduced at this point. It's something other than insurance. Right in this law, as well as in the entire system of laws that regulated this area earlier, is achieved depending on whether or not you are paying the contributions. As for the Fund, of course it was never an investment fund, it was always charged by collecting contributions from existing employees and paying off existing pensions. He was never an investment fund, and neither was the investment fund proposed by this law. You are absolutely right that the area of voluntary insurance in terms of special private funds, which would now work on account principle, must be regulated. But the current companies are working under federal insurance laws and have registered at federal level. We're going as a regulator, it's brought by the Ministry of Finance and we're going to participate in that part of the terms for withdrawing such a pension. It's a question of regulation of financial markets, a rule under which someone invests, how much can be invested from these funds abroad, and how much must be invested here, it's the whole regulation that we've undertaken to do as a government in the next six months when it comes to voluntary insurance. As for the second pillar, that is, this mixed system, many countries in transition decide on it, but what does it mean? So when you introduce a second pillar, you say the following -- all of them younger, say, 40 years old, they're now just part of their contributions to this existing fund from which pensions are paid, and the other part is not paid into that, but into a special fund, to their special individual savings accounts. Over 40 years of age, they continue to invest their entire contributions in this first pillar, which is the current way of funding. Of course, it was possible for us to define ourselves as such, and my deepest belief is that there is no such possibility in our terms today, even I have reservations for the middle term, but we can talk about it. And why is that? Because it automatically means that even these contributions collected today would not all go to the pension fund here to finance current pensions. So what's that got to do with it? As a consequence, you have to reduce pensions, even slower their growth, i.e. introduce negative indexing, because simply the current pensioners have to finance themselves from something; if you have a smaller inflow in the current fund, that means that this is the only option; and the other possibility is that this pension fund is further complemented from which these pensions are financed, which is also not possible in these conditions, given how many pensions are already allocated from the pension budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27288	The word has been issued by MP Petar Petrovic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group, i.e. the deputy president of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27289	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been expected for more than a year by all employees in Serbia with impatience to the law on pension and disability insurance. They expected something new, reform new, and in fact they received this bill from the government of the Republic of Serbia only a reduction of certain rights for future pensioners, as well as a smaller pension, according to the Soviet Union. We expected that this new law would really reform the right to pension-inhabitation and, in that sense, give something new, so that the material situation, both the current pensioners, the beneficiary of pensions on any basis, and future pensioners, is improved. This is where the minister said in her opening statement that we have an unfavourable relationship between employees and pensioners. The explanation of this law says that in the 1960s, six employees supported a pensioner, and today 1.6 employees support a pensioner. Surely this is not a favourable relationship, and it has an adverse effect on the material position, i.e. on the level of pensions of these present and future users. However, here we need to ask another question: what we have done reformically to increase this number of employees from 1.6 to 2.5 or 3 employees in Serbia to one pensioner, but this is a question for some other discussions and other laws. In this law on pension and disability insurance, most importantly, future pensioners will be entitled to pension on the basis of the overall work experience, i.e. contributions and contributions, i.e. the heights of the salary in its entire past working century. This is what will immediately bring, I say responsibly, into the unfavourable position of most future pensioners in relation to current and users who are going to retire these days, using the right to the most favourable ten years. Here it is said that the solution is simulated to over 100,000 future pensioners and that very few of these future pensioners will come into a situation that has a smaller pension. That's not true, I'm responsible. Take, regardless of these corrective factors, the general point and the personal point, that most pensioners will have lower pensions under the new law than they would have under the current law. On the other hand, the question of employees who had progressed in the ministry in their working life -- they started at the lowest jobs, so they went to school, came to some college degree, and even to a doctorate -- that now their higher salaries would not create conditions for higher pensions. Is this how we destimulate people so that in their working lives they don't seek and they don't tend to go to a better place to pay, because it won't affect their pension height much? Maybe 1-2%, and once a man's retired, it doesn't matter if he has 10,000 or 10,500 dinars. So far, the most favourable 10 years, at least in most companies, were those famous 70s to 80s, when the economy in Serbia worked well, when the salaries were good. Mostly people took those averages for their pension. If this proposed solution is kept, and we in the USSR are against it, then pensioners under the current law would have a higher pension than their colleagues who for any reason could not or had not acquired the right or some basis to exercise their right to retire. So we'd have a smaller pension of 10 to 30%, depending on the individual case. The question has been raised here why there is a large number of disability pensions in Serbia. Those who serve a good memory should know that back in the 10, 15, 20 years, there were plenty of liberal conditions for retirement, that medical committees, it must be admitted publicly, did not look at those people who wanted to be disabled pensioners. Then there were cases that companies also wanted to free many 2nd and 3rd categories of people, and even recommended that commissions give them first category rights and retire. It's a fact, and that truth needs to be looked into the eyes. However, the following should also be said: in many companies, working conditions were poor, very few resources were allocated to improve, so it greatly affected that a much younger category of people under 50 had the right to a disability pension, because they were reduced in their work capacity or were suffering from some professional and other illnesses that had to go to disability pensions. So, the issue of disability pension, on the one hand, is the question of the medical commission, but on the other hand, the question of whether the working conditions were good and whether the protection at work was well implemented in all companies. I was fortunate to have worked for years in Jagodina cable industry, which spent a lot of its resources on the protection of workers, on protection funds, etc. The investment of these funds is a much reduced possibility of obtaining disability in the workplace. All in all, according to the Soviet Union, such a bill, when it comes to retirement from work relations, i.e. employees in state, public and similar enterprises, will not improve the position of pensioners. We think that pensions will be less, or percentage less than they are now. As I said, the question of disabled pensioners is particularly, where this member who regulates the rights to disability pensions and all those other rights under the bill is contrary to Article 40. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to quote it and take time. To remind you, it's a valid constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we haven't changed it yet, and at least so much we'd have to respect it, when we make a proposal like this and the next day when we adopt it. We of the Soviet Union have made an amendment to Article 18. The bill, which requires that Article 40 be applied in the existing law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it gives employees the right to reduced working capacity, the danger of disease, etc. Allow me to refer with a few sentences and to the insurance of agricultural producers. The draft law, in this basic text that we have, provides that agricultural producers must provide for one or more members of the family household. Also, there is an amendment by the Committee on Agriculture, as far as I have seen, probably the amendment will be adopted by the government, and the minister says it has already been adopted, that only the bearer or one of the members of the family household will be an insurance undertaking based on agricultural activity. We from the SSJ, as is known, in most of our discussions we have advocated and we will always stand up for a better life for farmers or, if that sounds better, farmers. At this point, we cannot support this bill, that agricultural producers are necessarily retired. The reasons are as follows: at this point, the Fund of Farmers owes farmers or farmers 17 or 18 pensions, so the question arises - if such a trend of late retirement continues, and farmers are obliged to have to provide at least one member of their family household, will they, when they get a pension, ever expect to receive that pension, if that pension is to be made at 63, or 65 years of life, as well as others. (President: Are you using for the next 10 minutes?) Yes. Another reason is that the material position of agricultural producers in Serbia is extremely difficult. At this point, despite being a small cadastrian income as a basis for paying contributions to pension and disability insurance for farmers, I am sure and argue on behalf of the SSJ MPs' club that very soon this cadastrian income will be re-valorated by several times, so the obligations of agricultural producers will be far greater than it is now, at the moment this law begins to apply. So, the fact is that agricultural producers are in an extremely difficult position, that their products today have no one to buy, no one guarantees their price, etc., so the question is, what are these people going to pay for, which is the source of income, and when you make them pay for pension and disability insurance contributions. There were speeches here, by the Minister's office, that there are many nursing households who have no one to support in the country and that this pension should provide them with some material, social, economic security. Gentlemen of power, pass the law that the children of old have to endure, such as in highly developed Western countries the obligation to support parents by those children who have something to support them from. If you think that the pension of 2,000 dinars, the minimum pension of agricultural producers, is now accepted twice a month, at this point more than a month no farm pension is paid, enough that some nursing household, i.e. pensioners and farmers live on it, you are wrong. It takes a lot more money to make sure that these people, who are able to process their country, can be supported by it, and cannot be supported by these 2,000 dinars alone. As far as agricultural producers are concerned, we from the Soviet Union are saying that at this point, agricultural producers are not obliged to pay contributions to the so-called "Secrets". compulsory insurance, but to create economic conditions to improve the material position of farmers, and then to commit to paying contributions for one or more members of their family household. At this point, I think it is an adequate solution to keep it voluntary, to assess and assess whether it is capable of paying contributions to pension and disability insurance, and to leave it to farmers to decide whether or not they want to be insured in case of age. I would particularly point out that we from the SSJ party disagree with the introduction of contributions for pension and disability insurance on the labour contract, the copyright fee, the work through youth cooperatives, etc. Why - if this is left in the law, such a proposal, and if it is paid on copyright fees, work contracts, etc., then one narrow circle of people in this Serbia, who constantly have contracts on the work, will have fees, etc. through various connections and ties, and it's known that you get part-time jobs, how you get jobs based on a job contract, so you get yourself safely in a more favourable position when you get a pension right, I mean old age, disabled. It will simply have far greater pensions than the same colleagues who work with them, in the same workplace, and not to mention that many of these contracts will be executed in jobs, that many of them will be made in jobs and using in companies, in businesses, all of them will be needed to do the work they have tied the contract to. So I think you should get it out of this law, and we also can't accept that work through youth cooperatives is committed, or that these payments are paid for pension and disability insurance. In some ways, this law will be in collegiate, I think, with the Labour Act, where it's not foreseen. In the end, if it didn't turn out to be just us from the Soviet Union critics, I'd commend Article 60. Proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, where it is said that all women who have given birth to a third child have the right to so-called. A special internship of two years, but at the same time we suggest that you consider the possibility that women who have given birth to a fourth, fifth or sixth child also have a special internship of one or two years, in order to speed up the birth of children in Serbia and to make Serbia come out of the white plague. This is a proposal from the Soviet Union. At the end of all this exposure, despite this commendation of article 60. The bill, MPs of the Soviet Union cannot vote in favour of the Bill on Pension and Disabilities Insurance in principle, and since we have submitted about 50 amendments, this is proof that we have worked very studioly on this bill. If most of these amendments are adopted and incorporated into the final text of the law, we will consider whether we will give you support in the final adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27290	The word has the minister of social affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27291	If someone on the principle of this ongoing funding contributes, when he has a lower salary, when he has a higher salary, to support the pensioner at that time, then there is simply no basis to be considered as a basis for calculating pensions for only ten years, when he is in the best situation. Second, in the '70s and '80s, they are not the most favorable. The most favourable are the 1990s for 90% of people who retire, and the reason is that they have to use this average profit parameter, which during the 1990s because of inflation and because of the change in methodology was an unreal parameter, so it turns out that they were all significantly above that average profit. That's why, for most of the people who worked in the 1990s, whenever they retired, they'd turn out to be the 90s most favourable and they'd come in a much better position than the ones who didn't work in the '90s, like the younger ones who started working later. When it comes to debts related to agricultural pensions, I would remind you that at the beginning of the debt it was 24 months, that it was reduced to 14 months, and that one of the problems is that farmers did not pay this insurance due to accumulated debts. Thus, the agricultural fund was not charged, and the same contributions were not related to cadastrian income, but were always linked to the average profit in that insurance, and according to the previous law they were related to 50% of the average earnings of the previous year. According to this proposal, they would be equated with the lowest rate and base that exists in the Fund of Employees, and not with the revaluation of cadastrian income. This will have no impact on how much their pension insurance obligations will be, since they were neither above nor under this law, their pension insurance obligations are linked to catastrian income.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27292	The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27293	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several reasons why a radical reform must be made in the pension and disability insurance system. The first reason is the demographic nature, the white plague of the government in Serbia since the mid-'60s, we are referring to an extremely unfavourable age structure and the numerical subpremation of the elderly population compared to the middle and younger population. Economic reasons are directly related to demographics, and they support that in the 1960s we had six to one in favour of the pensioners, that today this relationship is 1.6 to one, so four times more unfavourable. With all progress and an increase in the number of employees that will follow for months and years to come, it is quite certain that a more favourable trend cannot be achieved for long. Also, the injustice and certain irregularities of the existing site, which we see in terms of an unfavourable relationship between those in better businesses, which could still be determined by ten of the most favourable years, and those citizens and workers in poor businesses or in less profitable professions, is also one of the moments that need to be corrected. The injustice is also seen in the fact that we have more than 30% of disabled pensioners, many of whom have achieved these pensions without real disability, many of them with corruption, and with insufficient mechanisms to ensure equal and even allocation of disability pensions. These mechanisms, through the establishment of medical committees and a higher degree of establishing the right to a disability pension, this law establishes. Furthermore, the low standard of living for pensioners is also one of the reasons why we need to respect it, and therefore it is necessary to provide mechanisms for permanent and stable financing and the flow of pensioners' income, precisely because pensions are the only source of existence. The principles of reform carried out by Mrs Matkovic are reflected in the obligation, with the corrective factor of volunteering; therefore, if someone wants to make a higher pension, the obligation to fold, both employed and if they work on occasional, temporary jobs, according to the labour contract, in student cooperatives, therefore, is introduced through a wide range of persons who can contribute to the very type of stability and continuity of pensions in Serbia. Solidarity is also one of the key principles in this law, both through guaranteeing minimum pensions and through mechanisms to protect women's working populations as a threat, which has more unfavourable jobs, less income and, in that sense, achieves qualitative progress and manages to make this kind of corrective mechanism. Solidarity is also reflected in the fact that the principle on the basis of which current pensioners were entitled to retire, so the principle of permanent separation through contributions continues to be established; those persons who, throughout the entire working century, were still able to make pensions in accordance with the legal principles and in accordance with the principles on which they were allocated. The security provided by the constant inflow of funds is a much better principle, especially in our conditions, compared to the principle of savings accounts, when the accumulation of capital, i.e. market principles, is introduced into this area, precisely because of the risks we can see in the collapse of some insurance companies in the West over the past year; therefore, the risk of poor investment investments, wars, inflation, hyperinflation. This law allows persons who work longer, who carry out a retirement period of up to 45 years, to achieve not only that right, but also to directly read the effects and time of that work at the level of retirement and, consequently, relate to the height of their pension. What surprises me is that some respected colleagues have this kind of political courage to represent themselves as protectors of pensioners, and when they were in power in the last decade of the 1990s, they practically brought the pensioner population to the beggar stick. We know what happened to pensions in 1992, and since then, practically, the principle of giving 12 pensions has ceased. It began to give less pensions a year than it belonged to the pensioners. Unlawfully, pensions were reduced in 1994 and 1995, through electricity stamps, through inflation, through hyperinflation, which practically led, due to the preservation of social peace, to the full social threat of this population. In this sense, the law provides a safeguard mechanism for pensioners and will therefore vote for it by the Democratic Opposition's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27294	The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27295	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, we are constantly talking about reform, and this reform of pension and disability insurance should mean one thing to me -- full of pension funds and how to get full pension funds. From the legislator of the law, the resolute minister, I didn't hear anything about it, although I listened very carefully. She obviously didn't find any models to get us into the right and essential reform, and it's going to happen the moment the pension funds in this country are full. How can they fill up? I think there's one essential thing missing, and that's a good economic environment, good economic development, good employment, good pay, and then the funds must be full. I don't think reform in the area of pension and disability insurance is going to happen with this law either, because this bureaucratic structure survives much longer in this area and doesn't depend on any political options, and you can send from here various political messages and empty stories that belong to any political option, the question is who it is that it voted for and who it works for. A fundamental question is being raised, as was the problem of the PDO in this country and I think it is still going on, it is still not resolved and something is constantly delaying what is going to happen, and it seems to me that many things will remain unresolved in this area too. First, who are the insurance guys, whether they're going to search and really determine who the insurance guys really are all over these categories. It is evident that whenever a state body provided documentation to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, and it is about the insurance company that died, the following year you were re-named that person and in debt to that insurance company, because they rarely died deleted from the records. I don't think at this point we know the exact number of insurance companies, especially when it comes to agriculture. So there can be no reform of pension insurance unless there is a serious economic reform, because otherwise the funds are empty. Half of Serbia is not working at this time, to start from Jumka, so Delishes, we can go to Saturday, Gosa in Smederjevska Palanca, large Serbian companies are standing, doing nothing, not paying pension contributions for 15-20 months, and the typhondian part is not filling up. Not to mention the area of services in this country, which may be most endangered and seems to me to be an even more difficult issue in this area. I need to look at the retirement insurance of the agricultural producers. No serious reform in this area will happen. First, what happens to all the insurance companies who, by order of local services and for a certain amount of money, were determined by the heads of the local offices. Mass reporting of citizens has been carried out, from which they could not get out when it comes to pension insurance. I think it takes a lot of serious work to clear up who the insurance companies are in the area of agricultural security. There are family households where six to eight people are secured, so when you take these averages, debts in some families on that basis move up to 400,000 dinars, along with all those interest rates that run. It seems to me that it is on the income side when it comes to the pension fund as a debt, and on the real payment side, where payment on that basis should happen, it is evident that there is no income and there is no income with which it can be reconciled. Even this way that's proposed isn't good, and it's starting on some average again. Earlier, the average gross earnings of employees in the Serbian economy will now turn out to be something similar and we will return to the level of the catch. There are also agricultural households with 200-300 hectares of farmland, holding it in the arena or already owning the country, and paying for the average profit; and of course, the largest number of agricultural households, which are mainly fuelled by insurance companies in the area, have one, two, three, maximum five hectares of farmland. When it comes from the average in this area, there is a second fact: neither all economies in agriculture are the best, nor are the conditions of the farming process great. What is the price of meat at this point and how it will be sown at all this spring, how conditions will be created for the creation of new income in agriculture, it seems to me that much remains unresolved and when this law is passed. I think there's absolutely a lot left in that area that's been unsettled. I have constantly advocated that the farmer of the agricultural household be an insurance company, and that is quite enough, and that everything else goes into the basis of volunteering and that models are found according to the averages in the area. People can pay more than expected, simply if they have the income of that kind and can make an annual calculation from which they will pay that level of insurance. We can talk about what we want, but when it all comes down to practice, it comes down to the same story again. Enter any community of pension-inhabited insurance and check the number of insurance companies in agriculture and you will see that there is a chaotic situation. Check out how many dead people are still being held as insurance, and there's a pretty messy situation. What happens to the insurance that was in some previous period, let's say eight members of the family's household, where the debt is 200 and 300,000 in real, with all the interest that happened in the previous period -- is there any way to move into real debt? Is it possible to make a mark over that period and today the euro to get into the interest rates of that species and make an average, because interest has caused terrible damage in the area. It is not true that agricultural producers will not be insured, but cannot pay this level of duty. It's the only real fact. It seems to me that farmers live exclusively from their work. They don't have the opportunity to deal with anything other than their hard work. I don't think there's any reform here if all of this doesn't add up, the number of insurance companies, what happens to the previous period, how do you solve the internship of a person who won't be insured by that one anymore, wants to get out of that kind of insurance, but what happens to their internship from the previous period? Are we going to give them the chance not to have the insurance solved because they're going to have a debt hanging on them or are we going to create conditions to pay for some real figure they can really pay for? If you constantly go out and meet companies, big systems, craftsmen, cab drivers, lawyers -- because when you threaten to strike, it's the same story, nothing has changed the behavior of the insurance company -- they're always making concessions every year, and they're constantly limiting levels and reducing obligations so they don't have some kind of rebellion. Without a solution to this problem, since agricultural producers are the only ones living from their work, there is no serious reform in this area. Finally, when it comes to pension insurance for agricultural producers, you can't keep people who have 200 hectares or 2,000 acres [200 ha] and now they buy agricultural combinations and agricultural producers that have two hectares -- that they all pay the same. It's not the same income. I think it seems like a similar mistake. I understand how this is calculated. A gross model is made, an account is done, divided into the number of insurance companies and cut. When a budget is made, everything comes down to the bottom and when it comes down to an individual what can't be paid. It always goes from gross to a mass that should be calculated as an individual. The only real taxation in this area is taxation against catastar income. The average catastrian income for the country from first to fourth class, with eight in this area, is 200 to 400 dinars of income. That's income and that's what the tax rate goes to. The country's average household tax debt is up to 1,000 dinars maximum. Of course, whoever pays the tax is silent when it comes to it, and everything else is his problem. It's not well-regulated health insurance when it comes to them. The medical book is required to pay for pension insurance and all obligations to obtain a certified health certificate. That's not how it works. It has to be regulated only by that health insurance obligation. It seems to me that no public education has been done at all and that people do not understand what compulsory health care is. It gets mixed up all the time. And previous times have been politically used to buy political points and different stories have been told to citizens about not being paid, to bring down the regime. Today we are all facing a serious problem of how to educate the population, explain its interest on this basis and fill the funds. The essence of this kind of reform is that they must be full of funds. It seems to me that the only category of funds are independent craftsmen, that fund has always had a high level of charge and pensions on that basis are paid most regularly. I think the employee fund is very endangered, and it is essential and basic, which should be set aside, especially in this area, and that is the fund where the agricultural insurance companies are located. Many, hundreds of thousands of citizens are getting solutions in this area at the beginning of each year. You're talking about 1992. Only one who worked in the IRS knows what happened in 1992. Everything else is an empty political story that tries to be used from this pay phone. That year, the number of taxpayers, since there was a serious reform of the tax system, in one average tax administration, grew from 15 to 20,000 to 50 to 60,000 taxpayers. The mass of income in the state register has been significantly increased. I don't think it was all clever that was done in that inflation, but there was a one-time tax charge that caused total damage to both the state and the economy, but it seems to me that some of the experiences in that insurance coverage should be used. We need to know exactly who our insurance companies are in a particular area, and I think we're going to have a problem figuring out who the insurance companies are when it comes to agricultural insurance for the next time, because that's a complex question. The problem of billing revenue in this area will remain unresolved unless the issue of previous debts is resolved. This issue must be seriously resolved, to look at all the facts, to determine the exact figure and to create conditions for people to pay for it in some period, and to sell goods to farmers. It seems to me that there has been an unnecessary amount from the tax system of almost all agricultural products. He could have kept some of the serious income for the state there. How? It's very simple if someone wants to do it seriously. If, in the gross mass of social product in Serbia, agriculture participates in more than 40% to 45% of income, and you export the total amount of income from that tax area and you want the state to live with those 55% of income, we have a decline in production in the economy, and let's not talk about the price of electricity when 40% of the economy did not withdraw electricity. I'm not saying no remonts were made, but there was so much free electricity in the production that it was easy to close that cloud in the previous year, let's not make unnecessary political problems here. The law itself offers many good solutions, and I must say, it solves many parts that, technically, will enable better work and better quality service growth. It didn't get into the part that makes me the essence of how to create a full fund, how to collect income, how to charge real income. You can't go on farm insurance anymore, these are serious revenues, two million people in this country are engaged in agricultural production. The gross mass of social product in the area affects Serbia's economy, almost 50% of its income. Not agricultural producers, but you could have made them pay taxes to those who deal with the second or third phase, where the turnover of funds, where incomes are extraordinary. Today in Serbia are the richest people who are currently engaged in agricultural production. We're talking about drugs, etc. Here are the richest people in Serbia, so can't we see that we need to collect revenue from that area, etc. From that part, if you take only 3% in those stages, no, you didn't understand me, not agricultural producers, but wholesalers, you know what I'm talking about, just 3% to tax them, we'd get to an extraordinary income level that we could charge at least these funds. It seems to me from that area you could completely solve the social. You don't need donations, you don't need anything. That's one essential question, so that can be solved in this way. So it wasn't a good view of agriculture or the relationship of developing or stabilising the economy according to this, in my opinion, very essential law. Again, we will not have serious reform, but parts and yet someone new will have to solve a fundamental reform in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27296	Please, the word has the Minister of Social Affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27297	It means no dilemma. The 220th article is now offering solutions to the problem of accumulated debt. For that period, since insurance is an individual matter, a request will have to be filled out through which insurance companies will then be seen, according to the new proposed solutions. They may be ordered to stay at work, i.e. they do not have to pay for insurance. Then they won't even count as a period of internship. I can, but not at interest, revaluations and so forth, but at the present amount, what is their lowest base and rate, which turns out to be 1,000 dinars, to pay if they want to cover some internship voluntarily. Article 220 allows the issue to be resolved, so that the period does not have to be covered with these accumulated debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27298	Thank you. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? There's no sign-ins. We are continuing to debate in principle according to the order of the declared Members of the People's Parliament. The word has a folk MP Ljubodrag Grbic, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform. The next person registered for the word is MP Milos Todorovic, the SSJ.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27299	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I will try to draw attention to some of the solutions in the law that we are talking about. I will single out only a few examples as an illustration of the application of the principle of freedom of choice, individual responsibility for existence, competition, freedom of bargaining, in the analysis of some solutions. Serbia's Liberals have decided that women are making pensions with fewer years of employment and fewer years of living do not view solidarity as an expression. On the contrary, we consider it to be discrimination and to deny freedom of work and earning; an expression of denying the possibility of the vitality of the female population after 55 years being used for personal gain and reorientation of a working contingent of women to the extended roles of raising the family and the care of generations etc. The company founders' law provides mandatory pension insurance on the basis of the assumption that the founding function is a working function. Whether there is a registered working activity in its or other company and what the motives of the founders of the company are, the question is whether anyone, if the founder, can choose and take the risk of providing age by having the capital achieved. The mandatory contribution for founders is the cost for the company, with income tax, with income tax, from which pensions are also financed. The Treaty on the Functioning and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union also gives rise to the obligation to contribute to pensions. That's a good solution. It's not a good thing it's not mandatory for all contracts. Contracts of those already provided on some basis will not be burdened with mandatory contributions. This is how the labour market favors the services of those already engaged, because it will be cheaper for employers. Therefore, the principle of freedom and competition under equal conditions requires the mandatory payment of contributions to all contracts. You assume that from the point of view of the principle that I raised as the starting points of Liberal Serbia, I will question the perspective of optional pension insurance through rent savings, as well as the question of the prospect of capitalisation of the state fund. There is no greater degree of economic freedom if the mandatory state insurance does not develop pension rent savings and continues to provide, with certain conditions, presence and foreign companies for pension savings. Serbian citizens must become part of the European Pension Savings Community. Capitalisation of the state pension fund from concession revenues is more than the principle of justice. We simply need developmental banking investment institutions. It's supposed to be a state pension fund. Serbian Liberals are the principle of obtaining a chance to buy a pension policy through free elections. Dear People's MPs, to conclude, we are for a mixed concept of the state pension system at this stage. At the same time, we point out that these are very complex issues of joining the European Union and adapting to regulations. We're only facing temptations and changes in regulations. The indecision in this area in the introduction of legal rules according to the standards of Europe has not been worth it to anyone. Dear MPs, the issue of the government's consensus on these issues should be carefully built. In that sense, the place for this consensus has to become more and more the Assembly and MPs. That is why the Liberals of Serbia are demanding that the review of the law on boards begin at the stage of the draft laws forming the ministries. Dear People's MPs, Liberals of Serbia, and this time, relative to this law, bear a dilemma -- insisting on the principles of our policy or demand for a better economy of time, faster application of standards; but, this time, Liberals of Serbia give priority to a responsible partnership in the government's majority, which is bound by the continuity of the government's governance. We think she's still a good enough offer to move in the right direction. This movement will give us both rights and citizens who are for faster building a framework for pension freedoms and rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27300	The word has a People's MP Milos Todorovic, and the next reported word is MP Zoran Krasic, SRS, if we have until the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27301	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we are having a debate today on the poorer half of Serbia's population. There are about a million and a half pensioners in this country, and those who depend and live on their pensions have about two million. Pensions have been drastically reduced in real terms, and in this sense I cannot accept part of Mrs. Minister's argument that the pensioner's standard is not compromised. Is it also how the government in our country responds to this difficult position of pensioners? The draft law on pension and disability insurance does not go towards regulating and improving pensioners' positions. Their position will still be difficult, it will be harder, it will be more uncertain than today, and the growth of pensions will not depend on real indicators, these are also circumstances, but will depend on the current possibilities of the current government. The bill makes pension cuts with pay and cost of living very blurry. Let us remind ourselves of what has happened to pensions since the end of 2001 until today. A new way of calculating pensions then experienced a sunflower from which they had not returned and today pensions are actually less than those of November 2001. In January of this year, pensions will increase by 11%, but after three months we are facing a new drastic decline, reportedly due to a large pay cut early this year. That's true and it stands, it must be admitted, but in Articles 10 and 13. The draft law lays down the category of insurance for farmers who are obliged to pay pension and disability insurance. It is not clear to me, as an MP for the Serbian Unity Party, why he once again insists on this solution when it has proved to be very bad for the past 30 years, because it is rare for a farmer to receive a pension, and who has welcomed it, he saw that it is insultingly small, several hundred dinars. And so a small pension, those rare lucky ones were given two years behind. So it's not about the interest of the farmer, it's my personal position, and I think it's like that, future pensioners, but it's about spilling over certain means of insurance for other purposes. As farmers relate to the obligation to pay contributions to pension-involvement insurance can be seen from the rule that I am telling you from statistical data, their obligations are being charged by forced means. In Article 11, point 10. The bill again tries something that was rejected in this assembly in the adoption of tax laws at the end of last year; namely, it re-attacks young people who have barely found a job like that through youth cooperatives, their position and work will be equal to work relations, so the employer for those older than 26 years, and even younger people who are not in school, will pay the full amount of pension-inhabited insurance and, as soon as this law is passed, if adopted, these young people will lose their jobs, on the street. In Article 185. The bill provides for the control of the correctness of the accounting and payment of the contribution to be made by the tax authority, compared to the earlier situation, this is a decline, according to one of my friends, the former director of the income management, from horse to donkey, because any payment before the payout itself was controlled by the SDK, and besides, the companies and directors of the close government managed to pay only net amounts, and the taxes and contributions were left for better times. There are frequent cases today, and an example of this is the Public Enterprise of the Kolubara in Lazarevec, that companies pay contributions to pension and disability insurance for years back to the man who applied for retirement. Then how is the Fund going to provide funds for the current pension payment? Tax oreganes have no personnel, no technique to carry out orderly, monthly controls among all payers of earnings and this will create even greater chaos in the calculation and payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance and a far smaller inflow of funds into pension funds. I have to look back, ladies and gentlemen, on one part of this bill, and that's a harmonisation of pensions with pay and cost of life; it's very cloudy, I said it at the very beginning, and it'll bring us a lot of problems. However, in determining the way the funds were financed, the lawmaker forgot a very important item, which is the return to the funds of the robbed and kidnapped assets and assets. This robbery has been going on since 1945, and I think it's time for that refund to be made in those funds. These funds were mainly used for political purposes, political factories were built, unnecessary railways, some pointless wars were fought, but those funds were never returned, and in this bill we were unable to find that something in this sense would change. One article in the paper interested me, and I'm going to have to look at it in short lines; the paper has been since 21 March and it's said this: "In determining the annual personal coefficient, profits and earnings are taken, as well as other payments on which to calculate contributions for pension and disability insurance." The pensioners here will be damaged, but not taken into account one significant kind of payment, and in this newspaper I have, it is said this - gifts to civil servants. In fact, a new law on the prevention of corruption, Aleksandra Drecun, secretary of the Ministry of Finance and a representative of Serbia in the Anti-Corruption Initiative of the Stability Pact, was drafted in an interview on 21 March this year that a new law on the prevention of corruption would limit the value of a gift that could be handed over to a state official to the value of 50 euros, and only it was not said how many civil servants could receive these gifts; if he receives three or four days, it would not enter into the account, and the pensioners would be denied there again. However, some articles appear around some revenues, around some money, where this insurance, contributions will not be calculated, and this creates a lot of doubts in the public about such a law, how it will be implemented in Serbia and how it will be accepted by this very broad and very endangered layer of the population. The Soviet Union has submitted a lot of quality amendments and we hope that some of them will respect, but this bill of law, the MP club of the SSJ, cannot accept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27302	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, the SRS parliamentary group, and the next declared for the word, we will do so after the break, it is MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27303	This is a bill announced as systemically, as reform, and in fact it's a law that cannot be passed. This law must not enter into force, because not only will it cancel the existing pension-inhabitation system, but it does permanent damage to the concept of pension and disability insurance in these areas. What's the reason we have this bad law? The reason is, above all, that the promoter does not know what he wants to achieve by this law, because he has not set ideological assumptions for reform and has not answered a number of questions. And if the ruling structure doesn't know which direction to reform pension and disability insurance is headed, it can also serve the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. The right to retire is one exercised right, it belongs to the so-called third category of rights, there is 81 years of experience in the pension and disability system, and such bad solutions did not exist in 1921, nor in 1945 when communists came because they did not destroy the previous tax disability system. Unfortunately, we're reportedly passing a system law today because of the essential need to solve with 20 norms only one question -- how to suppress the deficit in a pension and disability fund, and then move on to some special calculation, to a special alignment, by the system -- the operation was well done, the surgeon had gloves, but the patient didn't survive. That patient didn't survive, it's going to be an erosion of the social status of not only existing pensioners, but also of us who are in this room, because if this is the first phase, then you can assume what's going to happen in the future. I will not enter the material reasons why our pension system now has such a major deficit, but the problems stem from 1985. And in 1985, when the expenditure surpluses were returning, in that socialist self-government system, when everyone was mastering social reproduction, it was actually this law, just a little make-up, so Cardellj wouldn't be offended. We do not have new ideological settings for the new pension-inhabitation system; the provision of a member of the 40th Constitution is sloppyly written, because if only the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is observed individually, then it is really sloppy, but since it is an organic unity with an appropriate standard of federal constitution, then an ideological view of what is pension and disability insurance is obtained. Unfortunately, we don't have that setting right now. We don't know who the pension and disability insurance is, we don't know whose obligation it is, we don't know what the fate of those funds is, so we don't even know what the scope of those rights is. Of course, all countries facing economic and demographic problems, with demographic almost all countries, find solutions in a mixed system. He is basically so-called. ongoing funding, but with many additional elements, where the citizen is stimulated to participate in the security of his social security. Of course, this may seem utopian today, that in these economic conditions we talk about. It was in 1985 when the Law on Mandatory Insurance for Farmers was introduced. Based on the reasons of the bill and what I heard here from the government's representatives, I get the impression that they don't really know why we came into this situation, so there's all sorts of things here; let's say, the ten-year most favourable retirement ground. It wasn't designed to spill from one to another, but for ideological reasons at the time, a socialist self-government society. That's what you should know. This was an attempt to provide the insurance company with the most favourable retirement base, taking into account the gaps that exist in the current account. This new reckoning will have its own cavities. This is recognised by the legislator by the fact that he rewards with five years of each category of insurance. We need to say why someone is being provided, whose obligation is that? Under this bill, it's not clear. Who guarantees mandatory pension and disability insurance, does the state, do insurance companies? The promoter would have to finally find an answer to the question, including for the existing law, which is why there are two types of contributions to be paid: one employer's salary, the other reportedly being accounted for for by the employee, i.e. the insurance company. There must be answers to those questions. America has left this individualist concept and it is heading towards this ongoing funding. Maybe the French have the best pension and disability insurance system, because they start from being obliged by the state to ensure the social security of its citizens and from that, by guaranteeing property rights, that whoever participates in the security of their social security also has the appropriate specific property rights to all those investments for their social security. Something can deserve attention in this bill, which is the fact that some of the rights were never essentially in the pension and disability insurance system. It's help and care, security aids, possibly physical damage compensation, and the entire Corps of what we're tying to the second and third categories of disability. Due to his temporary status, he may be in the area of health care before, but the proposer did not define to the extreme the cases provided. If age is an insurance case, then provisions in this law must be far more precise and with far fewer exceptions. If the second condition for the exercise of pension and disability insurance is disability, then until the end of the term, the principle of whether it is a loss of working ability, which is assumed to come with 65 years of life, or some modality of labour impairment. Third very important factor, it's death as a security case. Because this law does not have its own settings, we must not adopt it, for it will bring inexplicably severe consequences that will not be able to be removed later. All pension-involved systems are internal systems. A long period of time is needed to bring them into line. So, a new law needs to be developed, on new grounds, and with transitional provisions, to regulate everything that can appear as a hole in the functioning of the found state. Besides, this law has given rights as one part, and that's only the right to pay off. The right acquired from pension and disability insurance covers not only the right to pay, but the entire Corps of Rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27304	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.45.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please determine if we have a quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue the principle debate according to the application for the proposal for a pension and disability insurance law. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic (not present). The following is MP Vladimir Garcevic, a group of MPs of the National Socialists, declared as saying. The following is MP Nebojsa Jovic, a member of the SPS parliamentary group, reported for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27306	The respected presidency, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, following several laws that have been passed and executed by Serbian workers, come the next two laws that want to be presented as the rescue of workers and as the best solution, as if they do not know what is best for them. I expected a lady who works properly on the law to offer a law that would still be a shift in the protection of workers' rights, in the protection of citizens. However, this law, like all laws so far, has gone towards depriving the rights, demeaning them. In a way, it looks like everything's being rewritten from the West, and if that's the case, I could accept it if the wages and everything else were like the West, so now we want to even it out. However, it is said that this is more favourable, and I would say the following - tomorrow I will (not literally) retire and I would like to choose ten years, so let them be more unfavourable for me as a future pensioner. In conversation with people, fear of this law is evident, and that is justified. The introduction of a full-time job and an average wants to be presented as the well-being of citizens, i.e. workers, and I don't think it stands. I hope that in a very short time we will be able to meet in this room and check with the new pensioners what we claim to be more unfavourable today. In the conversation I had, I was told that at this point there was no capable frame that could be calculated until instructions came in, so without these instructions, the real situation on the ground is hard to get. On the other hand, when it comes to people with disabilities, I think that this Parliament and we as MPs have no right to go to harm those people who are really disabled, and if there is a failure of commissions and bribes, it is necessary to support that such pensions be taken away and that an absolute revision of such pensions is carried out. But it is unacceptable for me that for people who have come for disability, we are not trying to find solutions to be fully protected. Then the question arises: do we bear in ourselves anything of the people, whether that name of our people's messenger is in the name of the people and of the people, or is it in the name of us individuals, groups, etc.; that part is not good. A concrete question from the field -- how people from Kosovo will establish a working position, where the early departure of the workbook is only given and not approved, and people find it difficult to get to management so they can regulate their retirement base later. That's what I'm worried about in the field. I'm asking an ato question because now's my chance to ask you. I think this power should offer the law so we can all support it and it's for the good of the workers. I believe that this law, like all others, goes to the expense of workers, so it is not consistent with what the citizens voted for, and I believe that this law should, as such, withdraw and leave, not endanger any right until a material basis is provided to ensure that it can be realised. About the funds; so if everything in my town gets fired so it doesn't work, there can be no more money in the funds. Money cannot be replaced by the sale of the company, but only by the work and creation of new capital, but not through trade, not through the machinations in trade, etc. So by creating new objects that will be able to give a certain value and that part improves. If we say that the number of workers fired will increase next year, then the question is how will pension and disability insurance funds be replaced in the first place. It's a short bill to sell to the company, it's a short bill and it's for solving the status of salaries in education, in health care, etc. I believe only in production, and I'd be very happy that in my city, any company will start to work and be better than it was during that government. When I see it, then I'll be ready to point out what's good. But based on these movements right now, it just shuts down and people just let go. And then, normally, pension funds will be empty. So we're not going to solve the laws of these problems, we're just going to make them more complex and that's why I think we need to look for solutions in production, to think about how to raise production, so there's going to be money for pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27307	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27308	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I think that no one dispute that the pension and disability insurance system is in difficulty, and the reasons are certainly economic and demographic movements in our country. In his presentation, the minister advocates reforming pension and disability insurance, pabih referred to some of the solutions in the bill that I have a different opinion on. The bill states that pension and disability insurance rights are acquired and achieved depending on the length of investment and the level of the basis on which the contribution to pension and disability insurance has been paid and the principle of solidarity is applied. I would disagree with the proposed formulation because I believe that the pension and disability insurance system stands on two interlinked principles - public and solidarity. This means that insurance funds are provided by all insurance undertakings at a proportional rate of contribution, and are used by insurance undertakings where one of the provided cases occurs. The principle of solidarity is particularly reflected in disability caused by labour injury, family pension rights in the event of the death of an insurance undertaking in the younger years, in ensuring the right to the lowest pension, rights to provide women under more favourable conditions than men and others. The draft law provides that voluntary pension insurance can be organised and implemented by legal persons in accordance with the specific law. This general formulation does not exclude the Fund from organising and implementing this insurance as a legal person; I believe that it is necessary to formulate precisely in the law that voluntary pension and disability insurance is organised and implemented by the Fund as a specialised institution, and that other legal entities can be in addition to the Fund. As far as pension and disability insurance rights are concerned, I express the most objections to Article 18 point 1(2) of the Law proposal - a case of disability and the right to a disability pension. A solution has been proposed that after disability, only the right to a disability pension can be obtained, which is unacceptable because the disability pension in all pension and disability insurance systems has so far been the ultimate measure of protecting insurance after disability. Namely, in the current and earlier retirement and disability insurance systems, disabled insurance companies, besides disability pensions, are provided and rights based on remaining work capacity, the right to work with reduced working hours, etc. the second category of disability, the right to employment on a second job full-time, with and without requalification or qualification, earlier than 1 January 1997, so-called the third category of disability, as well as the corresponding cash compensation on these grounds. Rights based on the dangers of disability are provided by using the remaining work capacity of workers i.e. With his further retention in the process of work, without further deterioration of his health, which has significantly affected the reduction of so-called "supervised" health. "real disabled pensioners." Unpredicting the rights based on reduced working capacity is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is because of the provision of Article 40. The Constitution, in addition to the provision of compulsory insurance to employees under the law, provides them with rights in the event of a reduction or loss of their ability to work. So the rights based on the reduction in working capacity are constitutional and Article 78. The labour law stipulates that the employed person, in accordance with the rules on pension and disability insurance, is an employer obliged to ensure that the work is carried out according to the remaining work capacity and, on the basis of the risk of disability, to ensure that other relevant tasks are carried out. The relevant rights of disabled workers with remaining work capacity are provided for by law and other health insurance regulations. In addition, they cannot be ignored, nor can the international social security conventions, which our country has ratified, and therefore make up part of our legislation, and especially those relating to the rights of disabled workers in general and disabled work where disability is due to violations of work. For these reasons, I believe that, in the event of disability, in addition to disability pension, an insurance undertaking should have the right to deploy, i.e. second full-time employment, as well as the right to cash compensation in connection with the use of that right, based on a reduction in work capacity, and according to the remaining working capacity, as well as the right to financial compensation for assistance and care. The removal of this right from the pension and disability insurance system in the Social Protection Act is unacceptable because it is not a social category. When obtaining and exercising the right to financial compensation for assistance and care, insurance and pensioners and beneficiaries cannot be equalised with categories of citizens covered by the Social Protection Act, because this right comes from work, i.e. it is not a social category. With the bill, disability exists when insurance becomes a complete loss of work ability. The existing formulation should also be added to a permanent loss of working ability or a reduction of working ability, because when an insurance undertaking is entitled to a disability pension, according to Article 98. The labour law ceases employment independently of the employer's will and will, due to the loss of work ability and that on the day of delivery of a strong solution to determine the loss of working ability. If the insurance company did not have a permanent disability, but after a reasonable period of time it was determined that there was no longer a loss of employment, then it would have run out of pension, as it had previously lost employment. In the end, I would comment on the use of pension and disability insurance rights, where pensions and fines are said to be determined in the monthly amount and paid back. Payback should be replaced in the current month for the previous month. Deviating from such a way of paying off pensions means disrespecting legal regulations. Paying out pensions in that way is an appropriate remuneration for employees. Since pensions are earned based on work, there should be no difference in its remuneration compared to earnings. This team before the pension is the only source of most of its users' income, so any delay in paying off reduces its economic value and endangers the low standard of pensioners anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27309	As deputy president of the parliamentary group, MP Srdjan Petrovic signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27310	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, before Mr Adzic details the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia on this law, I note that for our party the law has two parts. One part, related to the correction of the current way of calculating pensions, is completely acceptable to us. We are fully aware that the current method of reckoning cannot satisfy future time, first of all for demographic reasons. This happens not only in transition countries but also in developed countries. So we need to change the pension system in that part, so we accept this solution. The explanation that it is fair we can also accept it, although we have a grudge and we have made it through the amendment, that that one-to-four relationship should not be; it means that there should not be a limit to the highest and lowest pensions. In the second part of the law, relating to the abolition of the right under the current Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, means the basis on which the fees from the Fund are paid, we do not believe that these rights should be abolished to this extent as the biller did. This applies first of all to Article 21 of the Law and first of all to compensation for persons who have partly lost their ability to work. We believe that this right should be maintained, that it is one of the civil rights, which in other countries in transition in most cases has been detained. It's our key amendment. The Democratic Party of Serbia also has certain amendments related to corrections in the domain of transitional and final provisions and other technical improvements to the law. We believe that the reasons, which define us to be in order to remain certain rights in the domain of disability insurance, are strong enough that we cannot vote in favour of the law in principle, so that when we vote on the law in principle, we will abstain, and depending on the position of the Serbian and Government Parliament, according to our amendments, we will vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27311	The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Adzic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Djuro Popovic, a member of the SS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27312	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I would like to begin by pointing to the characteristics that follow the adoption of the laws on pension and disability insurance. First, during our term of office that lasts more than two years before this assembly, we have for the first time a comprehensive law in the field of insurance. The Health Insurance Act has not been submitted to the assembly procedure, and the employment law that regulates unemployment insurance has been withdrawn. Secondly, pension and disability insurance is now regulated at the level of the Republic, as the common state has lost that part of jurisdiction, so Montenegro will have its own law. Thirdly, as well as the previous law and this uniquely regulates pension and disability insurance of three separate categories: means, employees, independent employment and farmers; with three special funds. Fourthly, the concept of the proposed law does not differ from the previous, as it foresees mandatory and voluntary insurance, with voluntary insurance being introduced when conditions are obtained in Serbia. There's a question of when these conditions will come to pass. The only two global newspapers are changes in the way pensions are accounted for and the abolition of existing pension and disability insurance rights or narrowing them down. The fifth, an organisation of a pension and disability insurance system and a way of funding funds, as well as a way of deciding on the funds, remained unchanged. What remains conceptually remains the same, so what this law doesn't change I won't talk about, but I'll talk about the papers that this law gives. First of all, the bill introduces a new pension accounting system where instead of a ten-year valorised average reduced to a monthly average, it takes an average for a pension basis for all years of work. The proponent in the explanation says this begins with a reform of pension and disability insurance in Serbia, as well as that this way of calculating corrects many of the elements of the injustices that have existed so far. I would agree that the new accounting system is fairer for those reasons. I feel that such a solution should be supported. However, I think that the pension bill is more of a technical issue, in which someone will be calculated a little bit bigger and a little less of a pension, but I don't think that the way in question doesn't get in the essence of pension and disability insurance, and for these reasons it can't be the basis for the reform of the pension system. The proposal also clarifies that the new accounting method will be encouraging and important in the fight against the grey economy because it increases the importance of the amount of contributions paid during retirement. I'm not sure this could be an argument. The second newspaper is to reduce the number of insurance risks to only four and the number of rights to only five. As pension and disability insurance rights, it is completely extinguished: rights based on partial loss of working ability, so allocation to another relevant job; compensation on this basis; right to requalification, retraining and rehabilitation, etc., as well as the right to other people's care and assistance; right to obtain basic aid for the work of blind persons. Rights are narrowed down based on an increase in duration, conditions for a disability pension are tightened, as are the conditions for a family pension. On this occasion I will not talk about the consequences of adopting a bill with this number of restrictions in rights, I will comment only on a solution in a law which does not foresee a partial loss of working ability in the risk of insurance. Let us put aside the fact that the Constitution of Serbia, in the human rights chapter, obliges the Republic of Serbia to have the right of citizens to compulsory insurance in the event of a reduction in their working ability and that the law is in direct contrast with Article 40. The Constitution of Serbia. Let's take a look at the position of the insurance company. In case employees experience incompetence for a job which they have done in the past due to work injuries, traffic injuries, occupational illness, and without a complete loss of ability, employees will not have any protection of the Insurance Fund. There's no way he can get any legal status. Such insurance will be treated equally by the State and the employer. Except by the will of the employer will depend on his further right of employment. In view of the fact that disability within the meaning of this law is considered only a complete loss of employment capacity, this will result in employees with a partial working capacity not being protected under any labour law, under the Employment Act, by any law on the employment of disabled persons, therefore, by any law that protects the disabled. They're running out of protection. If an employee is injured by an employer, not by his own fault, it depends solely on the employer's right to work, but all other consequences will be transferred and will have to be solved by the insurance company who has been affected by such a situation. The abolition of the right to other people's care and assistance, as the rights achieved in the fund, is a unilateral act of the state, which is affecting the principle of legal certainty, the principle of rights acquired, because this is about personal non-transportable rights. If we go back and remind ourselves of what was previously the right of pension and disability insurance is already extinguished, we will see that these are: the right to a partial pension, the right to early retirement, the right to another category of disability, the right to another group of care and assistance, the right to financial compensation for non-work damage, the right to banjski treatment and rehabilitation of pensioners, the strengthening of the conditions for an age pension by moving the age line, the strengthening of the conditions for disability and family pension. We quite logically come to the conclusion that this bill, with drastic restation, is slowly beginning to enter into the foundations of the humanity of a society. Of course, the government of Serbia has such restrictions on justice by the inability to finance pension costs to pensioners; it is also disproportionate to the number of pensioners compared to the number of employees; it wants to disburse the employer of government duties. However, the question arises whether this law will solve these problems. I don't think so. Compared to the rule of law, the basis or rate of payment of the contribution shall not be reduced. The pensioner's ratio is not resolved by this law. The number of pensioners is not as big as the number of unemployed. The remark that the number of disabled pensioners is too large can be true, but it is forgotten that most of these disabled pensioners would be in retirement, so again pensioners. In my opinion, we should not stick our head in the sand and support the view that by restricting the rights of the most vulnerable part of the population, we will solve the problems of pension and disability insurance in Serbia. I'd say this is just another way to get past the burdens and problems that the state has in the economy and the state's apparatus the most endangered layers of the population. Finally, I would remind myself that the PIO Fund is not impoverished because of the broad number of rights provided for by law, but for two reasons: I was talking about one, which is that the number of unemployed in Serbia is large, and hence the number of insurance companies; the other is that the money from the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund in the 70s and 80s was spent on building numerous buildings around Serbia, the hotels, Banjska spas and other properties, which are now being sold, and the funds obtained from the sale do not return to the Fund and the pensioners who created these values. The funds go to Serbia's budget. So this kind of privatisation in Serbia has further contributed to the poverty of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. Serbia's government is also carrying part of its responsibility in this case, as in two years it has done nothing to increase the number of employees, taking money from the sale of facilities built by funds. In the end, I call on MPs to support all those amendments that reduce the restrictions on pension and disability insurance rights and thus protect a large number of citizens, who would be affected by such a law on pension and disability insurance. By the way, let me remind you that it was these citizens who voted in favour of most of the MPs of the DOS Group. Finally, the law should still be passed in the interest of these citizens, not in the interest of the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27313	Thank you. The word has the minister of social affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27314	I will try to respond to the more sufferings that have been triggered, many of which are interlinked. Other people's care and assistance in transitional provisions remain as a right, until a law is passed that could solve the issue differently. Why and why does this commitment to the right to other people's care and to help get out of the pension insurance system? That's where two questions are asked. First, what are we covering with compulsory insurance, or what is it that we, as a common risk, have to make people pay as compulsory insurance and what are the reasons why such a right is put into a pension fund and paid out of a pension fund? Is this the kind of rights that arises in a very small number of cases, relatively observed, compared to what the pension population is; given how isolated it is and how isolated it has been historically observed through contributions to the pension fund, should such a right be exercised? Is mandatory insurance necessary to force people to do so? So it must be what the underlying risks are. There is no basis for making such a big difference that exists today and that existed in the previous system between those who need other people's care and help, because they cannot take care of themselves in social protection and pension protection. Secondly, there has been a full continuity of 20 years since the pension fund has been complemented by the budget and essentially all these rights are paid out of the budget; the question is whether it is a social right and whether it should be regulated in the same way for all those who need other people's care and help. Of course, the concept may be different, but it is our belief that such a right should be financed from other sources and it carries another kind of protection. What is now paid out of the pension fund will continue to be paid and is in transitional provisions. That's not in that sense in question. So, not in transitional provisions, in the sense that they will be abolished without an appropriate solution, but in the sense that appropriate legislation will be passed. I must say that a consensus has been reached in this respect by disabled organizations, whose members are primarily those who use this right to care and help others. As for the reduction of working ability, there are several questions. I have to say that you've listed all those rights that have already been abolished in the last ten years, starting with another group of disability, work with reduced working hours. We can all look ourselves in the eye here, and we know who, how and why he used that kind of right, and not forget when the fee is paid for it, that's what we all pay. It's all spilling, taking out each other's pockets and giving to each other. That's why it's a terrible thing to take care of when certain rights are given that involve some monetary income, is that a way to solve problems? As for the partial loss of working ability, it is about people who work and who can work, who need to be helped in retraining, retraining, finding suitable jobs and the like, but the right does not belong and should not fall within the scope of pension and disability insurance. This right must be resolved through the question of the law on the employment of disabled persons, regardless of whether someone has become disabled by working, which is very difficult to determine whether it's the only reason he has become disabled or is disabled that he has never been able to get a job. So there's no reason for these categories to differ. It's not the solution to say that this is directed against people who are disabled, because they don't remove the protection workshops, or their funding by this law, nor do they cancel the prequalification and requalification. We got the first or second version of the new law on the employment of disabled people, where there are definitions of that. It's a matter that needs to be settled properly, but it's not something that should belong to retirement insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27315	Right on line, MP Free Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27316	I didn't understand when you said that the employment law of disabled people would allow such persons to be employed. Article 21 The bill says disability is a complete loss of working ability. Therefore, persons who determine a partial loss of working ability will not be disabled within the meaning of this law. Therefore, this law has not said anything in that part, has not defined the status of such persons. We can't go over the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act and wait for the invalid employment law without knowing how that status will be resolved. That's what this law has to say and this congregation has to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27317	The word has the Social Affairs Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27318	That's the definition of this law. So it's the law on the employment of disabled people that will have to determine all possible distances in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27319	The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27320	Ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party will not give the green light to the proposed legal act, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given us for adoption, for the following reasons. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted a proposal from the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group to abolish mandatory insurance for farmers. The Serbian Unity Party proposes only the introduction of voluntary insurance for farmers, and in accordance with Article 16. It's a bill of law. The reasons are primarily economic. It must not be forgotten that today there is a large homeless woman in the country, so farmers are no longer able to necessarily pay pension and disability insurance. In addition, farmers are over-indebted by debt on the basis of contributions to pension and disability insurance, for the reason that they pay their pensions for farmers late 22 months, and in that sense, this right in its payment is reduced to the minimum amounts of pensions, of which it is difficult to survive. This legal act abolished a large number of rights. The possibility of exercising any disability rights, other than the right to a disability pension, which can only be achieved by an insurance company with total loss of working ability. This basically means that all rights based on the reduction of working ability, or remaining working ability, have been abolished. All rights in the event of a danger of disability have been abolished. In this respect, in the transitional provisions of the Law on founded users of those rights, as well as for users of the rights under the so-called so-called Law. other disability, part-time work, which has reached those rights by 1 January 1997, is proposed solutions that are inadmissible in our opinion. Instead of guaranteeing the rights already achieved, it is envisaged to translate the provisional cash compensation into new rights, partly in invalidity pension, Article 224 and 226, i.e. in a fee under Article 225, and the explanation does not show whether these rights are more favourable or unfavourable for these users. These solutions are contrary to the principle of protection of rights acquired, i.e. they are contrary to the provision of Article 24. Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where rights acquired under the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act cannot be taken away or restricted. If the proposed solutions, which certainly correspond to employers, were adopted from the date of entry into force of this law, there would be no new insurance company for people with disabilities, or even in cases where injuries occur, or injuries to work or occupational illness. A new formula for determining the height of an old disability pension has been proposed, which has been taken over by the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of the Republic of Croatia, and it is particularly important to stress that profits are taken to determine the amount of these pensions, i.e. the basics of insurance starting on 1 January 1970, instead of the now valid pension insurance, where earnings are made, income benefits, i.e. the basis of insurance for the consecutive ten best years of insurance and starting from 1 January 1970. Such a significant change will certainly lead to a different position for the pensioner compared to the users who exercise those rights after the day of entry into force of this law and vice versa. In addition, it is not possible to establish a new amount of pension for pensioners, if they are more favourable for them, which has always been guaranteed in this system, since the long-term insurance that is made on the basis of the long-term payment of funds for this insurance should not be put into different situations, as this raises their legal certainty. With regard to the harmonisation of pensions, the federal laws applicable from 1 January 2001, which were then adopted on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia under the pressure of the IMF, have been retained. In order to significantly reduce the ratio of the average pension to the average salary, according to a new way of synchronising pensions, they are coordinated three months with the cost of living and the average salary of employees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in the percentage representing half of the collection, instead of being determined earlier, monthly and only with the movement of earnings. In this way, pensioners received less than one and a half pensions in 2000. It turns out that a new way of synchronising pensions has led to a drastic pension reduction, thereby significantly reducing the average pension ratio compared to the average salary. For example, pensions made in the Fund of employees for October are reduced to 72%, and if an old method was applied only with the monthly movement of average earnings, average pensions would be 80% of the average earnings. Given the reasons set out above, as well as many others who are not mentioned, as well as the limitation of time at our disposal, the Assembly Group will not vote in favour of the adoption of this law to the proposed text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27321	The word has the People's MP Milorad Mircic, and the next one registered for the word is Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27322	To propose such a system law should aim at the first removal of the cause of such a situation in the pension and disability fund and the second removal of current irregularities. Here we have heard from the promoter or from the promoter's representatives what is causing all of this to happen in the pension-involved fund, and also in the context of the bill's proposal, it is said that the causes of the decline of gross products, the high participation of pensioners in relation to the total number of employees, high payloads, the grey economy, the increase of the unemployed, or the reduction of the number of those who work. How do you remove the causes? Gentlemen, in the election year 2000, you had your own program, as you claim to the people, especially this part of the people, the pensioners, clearly and loudly you said -- when you come to power, then all injustices will be corrected, then regular pensions will be paid; and on the question of individuals how you will do it from DOS, you said -- we know, we have a model; some have gone even so far and said -- we have support from abroad, the time of privatisation comes, these funds have to be filled, the pensions are secured regularly. Two and a half years, gentlemen, it's enough for you to do all this. You haven't done, you haven't fulfilled your promises, and now you're going with a bill that, removing the consequences, is causing a disaster of this blasphemy. Maybe you're not aware of what you're doing right now, because, in principle, by correcting your pension level, you're making mistakes that are going to cause such consequences that it's simply not going to be who's going to make it right after you. That's what I'm telling you most honestly, because we Serbian radicals have cited the greatest reason why we won't support this law. What did you do? You've been reduced by a total gross social product; who's been bothering you, has anyone stopped you from doing that? No, it's your own fault. And why are you to blame? The funds that were and how great was the potential of privatisation, you spent it, shared it, and now you don't have any more. If you've dignified yourself and looked at the Serbian Radicals programme, especially those individuals who say our programs are against state planning and that they have a goal of terrorism, you'd better look at the programme, because we told you in the program and from these speakers countless times - the privatisation funds should be used to fill pension funds. The office building on the mouth, you gave it to your friends, to your prominent members, and how much of it was paid to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund? Come out with the data, it's not a big number, it's not a significant amount, what did you think the next one would pay you or make up for that minus? You've made a terrible mistake. Gentlemen, you missed one chance. What is the essence of this proposal, the new coefficient calculation model, as the ministry's representative said? The point is, apparently, by correcting an injustice that is evident when it comes to pensions, you are making an even greater injustice. What the minister explains to us here (i.e. how you like to do it according to the new speech to say - Minister): now it's less damage, we took the salary of the individual, or the obligations he made in the previous period, on the basis of these obligations we shared with the average personal income in the Republic, where all the aggregated, i.e. the total number of residents, regardless of whether they work or do not work, and then we corrected that error. No, you've made a bigger mistake, gentlemen, whether consciously or unconsciously, deliberately or unwittingly. The minister cited it as an example that they receive 20,000 dinars of pension; find out what the number of those who receive such pensions is, it is a negligiblely small number, the largest part of them receives so much to put an end to the end, and you have the most damaged them with this model of reckoning; say in advance, on average, it is denied for one third of everyone's pensions at the beginning, and then you will correct with multiplying the cost of the score times, and we will see how many pensioners survive these reforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27323	The word has a folk MP, Zoran R. Angelkovic, and the next one registered for the word is Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27324	Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental reason why today's law on pension and disability insurance, which we are considering, lies in fact in the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is said that the law should be proposed because of the high participation of the pension fund in the country's social product and the high burden that represents the cost of pensions. That is why it is necessary to find a way to keep the budget charged to cover the pensions paid, which means that this should reduce pensions. It is said here that the existing fund and the existing way in which pensions are paid are obstacles to the country's economic recovery or reforms. The kids in the house would say about their elders - these old ones bother us. And from this explanation, too, we are bothered by the pensioners to make reforms and provide them with adequate economic status. What's the point? If it is already true, from what it is; from what the former experts have said it does not come forth. If it's true that it's not going to drastically reduce pensions to existing pensioners, especially new pensioners, then why don't we have parameters, for example? on three levels of pension, how much is it for the lowest pension, the current pension, how much is a pensioner going to receive under the new law, how much for the middle pension, and how much for the highest pension? Let's assume that someone will retire from these three categories today and make that comparison, that's what I'd like to hear from the minister now, as well as a comparison of what would happen when he retires under the new law Monday. You will see this fundamental difference and how damaged the future pensioner is with this law that is now being proposed here. If not, then it would not be logical to say that the existing law burdens the country's social product. That means there's too much to handle. If that weren't the case, then without it, the Pension Insurance Fund would be charged. I have to say that in this existing way, how this government interpreted the harmonisation of the law and the charging of the Pension Insurance Fund, we were practically getting from pensioners of permanent complaints and complaints, because 50% of the increase in wages and cost of life, in the way it was harmonised; the pension was constantly and systematically reduced. We got here from the minister's explanation that it was a alignment of 85% of the personal income, when the personal incomes were small. I know, but then pensions were small. I guess we should start with pensions being some kind of income that you can normally live on in years of working hours. Of course, there are good things. I don't think it's a bad thing to talk about the possibility that everyone's income, hence the author's fee, and if someone works longer, it makes it possible for a man to have higher incomes and higher pensions afterwards. This isn't about those categories and that layer of people. We have to take care of that middle layer, the lowest layer of people who have received and who will receive salaries and receive pensions on that basis. They will be the most damaged by this law and they will have a much smaller pension than they would have under the existing law. I think this is a further denial of the social rights of some categories, and that the lowest categories, and that they will be significantly damaged under this law. This is a further reduction of workers' rights in this area. When I say "worker," I say it on purpose, because over the past year and a half or two days, we've had a tightening of retirement conditions, a reduction of some of their belongings. Now this is a new imposition for people who are supposed to become pensioners tomorrow. The other thing is, there's been a lot of talk about her here, so I wouldn't particularly about disability, help, care and partial ability of people. For example, there's someone left without a hand and what he's going to do now, he's partly capable or partially incompetent, as you will. This turns out he's not going to retire. He's got to find something to do. What's he gonna do out there without both hands? I have to point to the third category mentioned here in various ways, which is that peasant pension. In this previous category, under the existing Privatisation Act, 5% is allocated to fill the fund. First, I think the competent ministry in this area should have, when the law was passed, suggested and asked for much greater separations. The logical and fairest thing would be to have 20% separation. After all, these workers who are now pensioners are responsible for what these companies are made, created and, if they have great value, they are responsible, not the current generation, for the value of the company, so it would be logical that they belong even more and that they are thus filled with a pension insurance fund. Of course, the other thing is how privatisation goes. I wouldn't talk about it, but if it were going well and if it were sold properly, then that fund from those funds could also be filled and that it has some basic capital that could be used later, not just as a current cost, in terms of taking from existing monthly salaries. The second question is how to charge the Pension Insurance Fund for farmers. In the past 10, 12, 14 years, as long as this Mandatory Pension Insurance Act is going on, there's a lot of controversy about whether it's voluntary, whether it's mandatory. There are some improvements here now in this sense that one number of people in some way allows them not to be mandatory insurance companies, but the bottom line is whether the state will find a mechanism for filling this fund. If you are looking for a way to fill this fund only from the contributions that future pensioners or current peasants make, this fund will never be filled and the difference from the day when pensions are received and for which it is received is not a year, but 22 months, these pensioners from the Pension Insurance Fund are also writing it. So, whether those 22 months will decrease to 10, to six or months per month, or increase to 36, depends on whether the fund is being charged from some additional sources. This additional source cannot be a burden on peasants, we fully agree. He can only be two basics. One thing that makes sense is that even from the fund for the sale of enterprises in the privatisation of money goes to the fund, but it is even more logical to charge 50% of the fund from the sales tax on agricultural products. If 50% of that fund were given, which means 1% or 2% of the sales tax on agricultural products (if it would satisfy those 50%, it could be established by experts), then the charging of the Pension Insurance Fund would be resolved. Then this ratio of 1:2 between the separation for the pension fund of peasants and the income, if a dinar is singled out, is received later on by two dinars, certainly could have been much more favourable. More specifically, a farmer could be made compulsory for double the amount of money and be socially insured, and through his agricultural product all citizens would pay evenly for the payment of the fund. After all, if you sell brandy, cigarettes, it produces tobacco, plums or grapes, logically that from these funds and that part of the tax it is calmed down because it is a kind of social category and it is a kind of social equality of people, according to whom we want to and in what way we want to worry. If we just want them to fill that fund ourselves, then as our population grows older, we will have a situation that neither this law nor the existing insurance companies that pay at the Pension Insurance Fund will be able to receive even this small insignificant asset. Then it will be thrown out to some complete imagination, that as it receives some 1,000, 2,000 dinars, insignificant money. Therefore, I think the government has the opportunity to propose an additional amendment, to find a way, or when the tax system law is adopted, to then install a way to charge this fund for a part of the funds that would ensure that this fund can begin to function normally. After all, if the Pension Insurance Fund also has some kind of social component and is filled from other sources or from existing sources of employees, then it would be fair to fill this fund, in a way, as a social fund, as a fund of people who spend agricultural products, and that is all of us. He doesn't have to tax on bread, he doesn't have to tax on other life supplies, but, for example, on alcohol, on cigarettes, on such products. I think it would be fair and possible for that fund to be filled, to be provided and there to be some decent and normal pension that represents something. This way she doesn't represent anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27325	The word has a minister, Mrs. Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27326	I'll try to answer a number of questions again that are open. The delay was 24 months in October 2000, so the fund obviously did not work; it is now 14 months late. Pensions are low due to delays, but also because most farmers were actually insured for these minimum 15 years and then retired. As for the reduction of the total social product, therefore the social product is not reduced, the percentage of pensions is still high. As for how anyone will pass when it comes to a new method of calculating pensions, on average, the minimum pension remains at that level that is conditional on the found level, and that is what the law says. So, the minimum pension won't change as a threshold determined that no one would be below it and there's one layer of pensioners, conditioned, who by old would have between nine and 12 thousand, who would essentially stay somewhere in the same position. Those between the two categories, between the minimum pension and this pension of about 9,000 dinars per old reckoning, will have an average pension increase between 4 and 5% on a new method of calculation, and those above that 12,000 will have a pension reduction on average again between 5 and 10%. But individual situations will be different because you have people who have contributed less or more to retirement insurance throughout their entire working life than others and you have those who have only had one cut in their career. Someone asked the question - how does it affect the reduction of the grey economy? Well, it's different when you as a security guard know that all your payments will be relevant throughout the entire workload, and different when you know that only one piece of your work experience will be relevant for later gaining your rights. Unfortunately, I have to apologize, since we've been scheduled for an emergency session of the government at 5:00, for not attending the final part of this session. I don't normally do that, but this is an extraordinary situation, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27327	I thank Mrs. Secretary. The word is by MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27328	Dear Members of the People, dear Mrs. Matkovic, I'm going to have to talk like that commercial for ten seconds to kidnap the Minister to hear me. It's just that there's talk of the law being reformed. I'm not quite sure that this is the beginning of reform, because this law is passed at a very important moment, when the environment, or social property, is changed. We have so far had the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance, as well as other laws that regulated this matter, but it was in the dominant system of social and state property. Now a new law is needed in the system when private property with upcoming privatisation will be dominant. In any case, the law is needed, and whether this law is good or not, that's a question; whether or not it can be corrected by amendments is also a question. If it's not reform law, in any case, the law is restrictive. I'll give you just a few provisions of the law that are visible here. For example, in article 54, this law regulates the right to an unfettered job internship; it says that the right to an internship with an increased duration is obtained by an insurance company only if it is effectively 10 years old in that workplace. Let's take an example of a man who worked in mining for 10 years, the company went bankrupt, or he worked at a diving company, for example. in Ivan Milutinovic, he worked for eight years, with the company paying the pension contribution for an internship with an increase in duration, the benefited internship, and he will lose it, and it was precisely Mrs Matkovic's proposal to participate all the years in the pension internship that potentiated that justice. In this case, you've been paying for 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9 years of benefits. Neither will you retire sooner, nor will that increase be added to you, so that this does not achieve the principle of justice, which is the desire and intensity of the law. I even see that some committee, I think, is parenting, for martial arts, or what other, as it's called, refused such an amendment that was very meaningful, because you can't cut a man's rights if he's been paying a contribution to the benefited internship, and you don't admit it to him in retirement if he doesn't have 10 years in total in that effective lifetime. Also, what is not acceptable in this law is, for example, Privileges of privileged persons in the MUP, MIP, BIA and the IRS. Why would these people, if we already have a fair share of what they were paying, get 20% higher pensions than other contributors, on whose account they will get 20% that they did not pay in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. Because it's said that these people who retire from these services account for pensions in a very ghastly and rather vague way, are recorded there for a reckoning, and another 20% on all of that. I don't think we go to that principle of fairness either, because those 20% didn't pay, but somebody else did, and they're going to use those 20% that didn't pay. There's an amendment in that direction, it should be accepted, if we want the principle of justice, if it's the pursuit of the law to be a fair law, to stimulate the payment of contributions. These people certainly have extended benefits, they have a higher salary, they have a higher pension, and why do they end up giving them 20% more? If someone doesn't know, and unfortunately that's what's been in the law so far, people like that have only been listed as a retirement base for the last year, and then in the last years they've been getting them, they're getting such nice salaries and nice pensions, and then they're in that style and they're 20%. But if we said that reform, what was bad should be changed, should be abolished, and such members should be accepted to change it. Then, Article 80, where it is said: harmonising pensions; I repeat the law intensities, if it is just to be proportionate to how the funds are paid in contributions, or how the profits of those who charge the pension fund will be made, so will pensions. If there were earlier words that salaries were reduced, that the way pensions were adjusted according to the cost of living - no, and pensioners should share the fate of the employees, so should pensions. If wages increase, the pension fund inflow increases, and pensions increase in this way. Therefore, Article 80, in the way it is proposed, does absolutely not cover this principle of justice and the principle of proper distribution. It's also a dispute here, and you've had amendments on that matter, they're boards of directors. There is a strong desire for the government to arbitration in the boards of directors, i.e. the participation of the government and the executive authorities. For example, for the chairman of the board of directors, no one can be chosen without the government's consent. The chairman of the Supervisory Board can be elected without the government's consent, while the chairman of the Management Board cannot. There's a lot about these boards of directors. What is most drastic in this law, if anyone has followed, and I would like to have one of the lawyers in this assembly (of course, except for those lawyers who have managed to lead themselves into a legal error, so they have gone astray whether or not they are MPs, but those lawyers who were not mistaken) explain whether a range of penalties of one to 80 is possible, is it possible to predict that someone will be punished by a prison of one year to 80 years, such as the estimated range of fines of 5 thousand to 400 thousand; in that folk proverb "not to be guilty of the devil", it is wrong for us to have justice after, and what kind of legislation do we serve the laws as his legislative authority? We make the law so that he can punish the offender five thousand and he can do four hundred thousand. And how do you think that judge is going to judge, whether he's going to punish 400,000, not to speculate now, to make a quiz when he's going to be 5,000 and when he's going to be 400,000. As a Assembly, we pass a very bad law, where there is a range of penalties, where we have allowed judges, lawyers, mechanics, yes, instead of narrowing it down (I followed it, although I am not a lawyer, but an engineer by profession, other laws), you have no greater range of penalties than one to 10. In this case you have a penalty range one to eighty. When we talked to Mrs. Matkovic at the MP's club, she said -- I really don't know, that's what one of the lawyers suggested, and I think the amendments will be accepted and will change. I see that in this case the amendments were not accepted, as far as I was able to quickly notice, so I ask you to think about it, if we want to be responsible for the Assembly, that's where we're going to take responsibility tomorrow, because we're punishing judges who attack that they don't work well, made such a law, so tomorrow the judge won't be guilty if some offender, who didn't respect the law on pension and disability insurance, is being punished by 20,000 dinars, and he may have benefited himself from 100,000 dinars and no one. These articles on criminal provisions, from 214th to further, would not be good for them to remain as they are. As an example of how the law is written and what harmony unfortunately is in our government is seen also by the government itself giving 13 amendments to its proposal for the law, which arrived on February 13th, and it immediately gives 13 amendments after a full month. They didn't remember the time, and now they're putting in those 13 amendments. In the end, the principled objection is to the literacy of the law. For example, the law is so written or translated from another language that it is not quite acceptable, although I would not give examples. I'll tell you, for the sake of the reckoning, that I've had to build programs for computers that will be applied later on. I guarantee you that out of us 250 MPs, half of us wouldn't be able to interpret how pensions are going to be accounted for. So those members from 61st to 70s are so vague, incomprehensible that the amendments were impossible to clarify and correct. In any case, I think we need a law on pension and disability insurance, that it is a good intention to pass the law, because once again I say that the social environment is changing, but this law should have been corrected by the amendment, but since the amendments are largely not accepted, the government and the chairman of the board have accepted only their amendments, I do not believe that they will get wider support, not these congregations, but in the public and will be longevity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27329	National MP Milos Lukic is not present. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and after that, MP Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a great regret for Serbian Radical Party MPs because Minister Gordana Matkovic did not stay until the end of today's principled debate. The fact that the government has to decide something so important is not our problem. We should have, Madam Chairman, stopped today's principle debate and continued tomorrow because we were seriously preparing for this law that you call systemic and because a large part of our population, the oldest part, is interested in the debate and in the fate of this ill-conceived pensioner law, those who are now retired and who are waiting for it in the near or later future. The underlying grudge coincides with the contaminants of the largest part of our oldest population, whether or not they are involved in the activities of any union. It is important for us to protect the interests of pensioners through the programming definitions of the SRS, which have not changed since our founding, and make it clear - after the economic collapse that we have survived due to long-term sanctions so-called. the international community that has promised you five billion dollars of grants, because we have had a war, which we have had to combat banditism and terrorism in our southern province, and after the criminal aggression of NATO, and it is clear that we were right when we proposed that the pension fund with a higher percentage of the participation of the company's privatisation in our country be filled. It's unacceptable for every pensioner, it's an insult to anyone who's forced to live with a minimum pension. If the pensioner has a minimum pension of 4,000 dinars, then the speaker minister comes out and says that this law will bring pension growth into line in a new way, not growth or stagnation, but a steep drop in the way the DOS and this government imagined, it is a clear message to these people that they will not be able to survive without the help of their children or to live normally for two or three days a month. What will they do and what will those who are sick and who are clearly told by the Government with this concept that they cannot go on disability pensions? The chapter on disability pension clearly states that only people in a wheelchair will be able to get it. If there are thousands of people who have triple bypasses, severe heart and other diseases waiting for workers at the Zastava factory - dedicated production promised by Minister Vlahovic and the Government to provide them with protection workshops and include it in the Labour Act, and this is not, if this is a key requirement for employees in dedicated products in the flag and other non-profit firms in our country, it is clear that no one wants to worry about them and leave them to the harsh fate. What about those who have so-called. Unbound internship? Tens of thousands of employees in our country, who have acquired the conditions to retire, do not know how they will do it, because they cannot bridge many years in which their parent companies have not paid their taxes and contributions. Most of the cases are in commercial companies, Belgrade Robing House, the textile industry in Kragujevac and many other cities in Serbia, there are numerous examples, as this ministry and Mrs Matkovic are deafening and says it is not their jurisdiction. That's what the Ministry of Labour and Employment will say, including the Government, and people are in the vacuum that they don't know what to do, because their years of hard work have been wasted in vain, and they don't have the ability to make a pension whatever it is, we see it's only going to be smaller.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27331	The word is Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27332	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, is before us another restrictive law that reduces citizens' rights. In any case, a low level of pension, which barely allows for the survival of a large number of pensioners, this proposal brings that category of citizens to an almost unembarkable position, as if it were lost out of the sight that pensioners generally do not have other sources of income to secure their existence. These people in advanced years and mostly impaired health cannot and have no place to make extra profits. Should the promised DOS reforms be implemented in this way over this category of old and disabled citizens? The arrival of DOS to power and their system laws affected all citizens, not just pensioners. Let us remind ourselves of the Labour Act, the Law on financial support of parents with children, the Proposal for a Law on Employment and others. Does the government think this pension-inhabitation law will ensure the country's social stability? It won't be safe. Social instability fosters both political and economic instability. Isn't it enough for the government to fuck pensions by introducing a new accounting system that came into effect early last year? The government has repeatedly said that over the last two years, earnings have been significantly increased, which, looking at nominal amounts, is not controversial. Of course, the real increase in earnings is nowhere near that nominal increase. However, no matter how nominal and realistic the income of employees was increased, average pensions would have to grow. Obliging pension increases and raising the cost of living, which due to the stability of prices, is an inappropriate way to reduce pensions. Official data from last year show how damaged pensioners are. The average gross earnings in Serbia in January 2002 amounted to 10,719 dinars, and in December 16,640 dinars. That's an increase of 55.21%. In the same period, the cost of living in Serbia increased by 18%. These data were published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", 9/91 of last year and in number 4 of this year. According to the above data, the alignment of pensions with the half-ringed set of income increases and the cost of life has resulted in pensions for the past year being less than around 18%. The introduction of income for the whole working life into a new way of calculating pensions leads to further cuts in pensions. It is not a sustainable argument for the government to introduce a new pension accounting formula with a view to making pensions more fair than paying full-time contributions and thus not changing the whole mass of pension funds. Can someone be naive and believe that on average new pensioners will have the same amount of pensions by new and old methods? It is clear to everyone that the intern and the beginner were less paid at the beginning of the working century. It's obvious that the new pension formula is cutting future pensions. In Serbia, pensions fell below 63% of the average net earnings and will continue to fall further. It is not too much to be reminded of the experiences of individual developed countries; e.g. in France, pensions do not drop below 75% of the last earnings, and retirement age is 60 years. It is not disputed that we have a large share of pensions in the gross domestic product and is ranging between 14% and 15%. However, the pension problem will not be resolved by their reduction. It can be solved by increasing production growth, increasing the number of employees and increasing employee earnings. No wonder it's hard to secure pension payments when in the economy almost everything stops. Less production than in the time of sanctions and NATO aggression. Production was lower in January this year than in December by 21.1%, compared to last year's average by 18.2% and lower compared to January last year by 6.2, as February production this year is lower by 1.6% than last year's. Prime Minister Zivkovic's statement last week, during the prime minister's election, that the planned growth of the gross social product will not be feasible and that inflation will be above the planned rate of 9%. No one argues that creating political stability should be the highest state and national interest. However, it cannot be achieved without economic and social stability. Economic and economic development must become the main topics of government work. Without economic development, there is no strengthening of the material base of society, higher employment and higher pensions. It would be appropriate for the government to give up its proposal for a new formula for calculating pensions. There is a need to stop the spread of poverty to this category of old citizens. Instead of boasting about the effects of reforms, the government needs to worry about a survey of what citizens think about it. As of January 23rd, this is our weekly serious, according to NIN, "86% of citizens believe politicians are distracting the people, 80% of citizens think they live no better than before, only 9% of citizens believe they have received reforms". This new law should not allow the dissatisfaction of citizens to increase.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27333	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27334	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, he spoke to a large number of excellent acquaintances of this problem, and my smallness will remain on some things, which I think is important to underline. First, the pension insurance law is one of the most important laws we've discussed here. It is common through the media and here that colleagues from the position and government say, when we talk about how the legislative and executive authorities work -- it is not the people's interest, but what they live on; here's the law on what the people live on, I don't see that there are any representatives present, and we're not too deep into this problem either. Let's see what this proposal offers and what it treats? That a population in Serbia who has completed its working century or has been disabled, has become disabled, can live and survive what, including a way, we will prescribe to single out into the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. This population in Serbia lives 90% of these incomes, which we call old age pensions, disability pensions, and none of us live off some kind of contortion in a bank (because banks have failed) or some kind of rent. What can we say about this law in principle? The question arises why is it proposed at a time of emergency and why is it the only item of the agenda? In response, the economic situation in the country is said to be such that with such pension-inhabited rights, there is no economic growth and all of this is illustrated by demographic characteristics; very superficially in certain segments, because the average age of our population does not grow but falls. Secondly, the ratio of the number of employees and pensioners is such that it is difficult to finance pension and disability funds. Thirdly, it was easy to obtain pension-inhabited rights, even with high corruption rates in obtaining a disability pension. What's the government doing? In such difficult circumstances, instead of affecting the process of filling the funds, he suggests cutting pension-inhabitation rights, which reduces the number of rights and nominal amounts of those rights. In determining the nominal amount, it is declared that it is fairer because it is moving to the entire working century. On the other hand, the amendment is rejected, and I have submitted it with Mr Adzic, not to limit the level of maximum pension, although it is prescribed throughout the working century that a man must implement as much as we have prescribed for him. That's different. From what I've heard here, it was taken from either German or Croatian pension-inhabited insurance. I'd like to remind myself of that folk, "foot guy, and shoe pussy," so there's something a little tight for us. We won't be able to cover ourselves with such funds. And now let's see what concept principles are for this bill? This ministry is the only one so far, and thanks to the minister, she admitted, on the side of two remarks: "Reforming the existing PIO system in Serbia is necessary from demographic, economic but also due to lack of concept." The ministry admits there's no concept. He means he wasn't there, and we don't have one. What's the government concept? He's based on the so-called. the ongoing financing of the PIO Fund. A colleague from another party, Liberala, said his party advocates not only funding from the current inflow of funds, but to be capitalised, to invest in some way, but although it is under his party's programme, because of co-operation with the government, they will give up the programme's position. I don't see a different way here, and one is to make a discontinuity with the previous fund -- we talked about it with Mrs. Minister and it's a shame that she's not here -- to start with a new way of funding, as suggested here. How do you explain this way of funding the fund, which is from current inflows. It's explained in a very strange way, which is that if the fund were to be capitalized and invested, it could happen, so it says in the explanation, that due to hyperinflation or war conditions, it would devalue that fund and then the old and powerless people would lose their money. This reminds me that the executive government seems to be the only one who knows how to dispose of social or national money. Well, what I was going to say at the end, or draw a line. Most important in this law, except for the reduction in the number of rights in which they are entered into constitutional matter, the nominal amount is reduced and rights acquired. The new way to calculate pensions by taking the entire working century reduces the amount of pensions for new insurance companies. Co-ordination of pensions, according to one colleague, is taken into account three months or four months of compliance with the cost of living, where the increase in life costs is not clearly defined. My colleagues, I must remind you, the cost of life, although there are responsible institutions in the country, is not easy to define, because pensioners are given the maximum amount of medicine in the cost of life. In the end, the pension system is closely linked to the business system and double that. It looks positive or negative. The DSS is not a social media party. So she's not going to the social component of this. She pleads for better economic growth to be filled with funds, which Mrs. Minister spoke of, that the Law on PIONMES social component. She was talking about how disability will be treated, and the dainty is not defined in this law. Then she talked about changing the rights to other people's care and help, where she treated him as a social component, and that's not a social component. What did the government do? The government only tried to restrict the right to patch up, so to speak, funds and wait, possibly by biological means, to reduce the number of pensioners, and then to see what happens. One more thing, I'm sorry, Mrs. Minister is among the most charming ministers in the government, but this law is terribly ill written. It's bad written and stylish, read Article 189, because 12 lines is one sentence, who understands it. In my line of work, it's said to be a misdetermined thought goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27335	The People's Messenger of the Prophet Verica Radet has the word, and then the Messenger of the people is Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27336	Such a proposal of the PIO law deserves, of course, from the aspect of the DOS, to be considered in this situation, when no one lives in Serbia nor sees or hears what the MPs say and what they propose in parliament. There's certainly nothing to say about this bill. By this law, when you adopt it, I know of course you will, you've abolished many existing rights, and nothing new, at the same time positively, has been suggested. Let's say, for the right to cash compensation and the minister's assistance, she tried to explain something. However, gentlemen, the abolition of this and such rights could be said if we were a developed society, in which citizens would be able to pay for such services themselves. Unfortunately, your public policy has long been reduced to a minimum, but far below the minimum of existence, when buying the cheapest medicine and what a luxury, let alone paying for other people's care or help. On the other hand, you presented pension coordination through some higher mathematics, so that no one who reads the law would notice that pensions no longer depend on the average cost of life, which is the only fair solution. The aim of this law is obvious to reduce the height of retirement and disability. I'm logically asking if the application of a law like this wants to reduce the number of pensioners by the method of starving. You also find this complicated way to calculate and score pensions. I was going to ask Mrs. Minister to explain, and it would be very interesting, the value of the personal point and the personal coefficient for tens of thousands of people you fired from work a year or two before retirement and put them on the labour market. Will their points be the two or three thousand they get on the labour market, trying to survive. Those less courageous and less resourceful, rich and commit suicide, and you certainly know that. There are numerous shortcomings in this law. Pull this law out of the process and prevent the catastrophic consequences of its application. Of course, I know you won't accept it, which is why all individual law shortages are covered by the amendments of my colleagues from the SRS. It will also not be an obstacle for you to adopt such a law and, through the media, to briefly inform the public of Serbia, we have adopted a new reform law; it is important that it sounds and what the consequences will be, Serbia will see.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27337	The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, has the word, followed by MP Sladjan Mijalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today on the agenda of Parliament is the law on pension and disability insurance. Previously, my colleagues talked about the law, for example, showed that the new bill would damage everyone who retired under this law compared to the existing law. I'm going to try not to repeat my previous colleagues, and right at the beginning of the presentation, I want to say that this law is unfavourable for pensioners and especially for disabled people. The aim of this law is not to protect pensioners and disabled people, but to protect a pension fund that is empty. My opinion is that the government shouldn't have gone with this law, because there were no conditions and ambience for it. I am absolutely certain that you will defend yourself that difficulties are inherited from the previous regime, which is not in line with the truth, because you have been in power for three years, quite enough to start looking for blame for the situation in your ranks. This law should come here on the agenda when many issues are previously settled, when conditions are created that this law works in practice without users being damaged. When I say this, I mean pensioners, people with disabilities and farmers. Job number one before this law is passed should be that our economy works well, with as many employees as possible; whether you want it or not, you have to admit that in this part you have no solutions. When these two things don't work, it's unnecessary to pass pension laws. When there's no one to fill a pension fund, it's like that people's "a lot of kids and a little eggs to split." You have to admit, ever since you're in power, things have been getting worse in the economy. Companies don't work, and you can say they do, a lot of workers are on paid leave, and with minimum compensation, a lot of workers lost their jobs because of the Privatisation Act, and if this is the situation in the economy, I don't know who else could fill the pension fund. I mentioned the Law on Privatization; this law has directly endangered the pension fund, because the company's buyers conditioned us-- there are so many employees to fire in this company, so we're going to buy a company. These events are present in all companies that have been privatized so far. What does that mean? This means that the number of employees has been reduced and that he currently cannot provide as much money in Serbia as it is enough to pay out pensioners, because you have managed to achieve a relationship one employed on two pensioners, which has not been recorded with us so far. Without successful employment in the economy, directly in production, there is no happiness for workers or for pensioners. What you did in the employment part, it's that you formed many agencies, funds, NGOs, you made an expensive state and a set of state apparatus. In the current Pensions Act, ten of the best years were taken to calculate pensions, and under these conditions, the average pensions are 8,000 dinars. Under the new draft pension insurance law, an average of the entire staff of the future pensioner would be taken, which in translation means a longer average, a lower check. In the bill of law, there is a newspaper in the part of the agricultural pensions. Farmers would most often have their insurance voluntarily, as those with goods production for the market would probably be insured, and those with smaller holdings, which produce only for their own purposes, will probably still not be able to pay a pension contribution of 12,816 dinars. This law is the most unfavourable for disabled workers. The new rule on disability insurance no longer provides for rights on those grounds, but is freed by employers of those obligations; for example, the worker is left without hands due to injury at work, which does not allow him to continue to do the job he was doing until the injury, but could do some other job without hiring both hands. What are the rights of this worker? By regulations, none. The right to a disability pension cannot be realised, the right based on reduced working capacity cannot be realised, because it is not foreseen in the regulations, but this is how employers of those obligations are released. The law does not protect the disabled, nor provides them with the rights given under Article 40 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27339	The word is by MP Sladjan Mijlovic, followed by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27340	Ladies and gentlemen, in the proposal for this DSS law, it is not only a disputed transition to a different system for the calculation of pension bases and pensions. In the long term, this is the right model, regardless of what in the short term will cause dissatisfaction, especially in those who are currently receiving for our conditions relatively high pensions. A great lack of this proposal is the abolition of the third category of disability and the two rights that follow on the basis of it: the right to an adequate job with the same employer on the basis of the remaining working capacity and the right to cash compensation due to less earnings on the second corresponding job. So far, third category disabled persons with these two rights have been maximum protected. On the other hand, because of the absence of any control, there have been maximum abuses in determining this right by the physician - the expert of the PIO Fund. So this right was used as a way to make good money without work after only a few years of work, all about the cost of the PIO Fund, or those who work and who pay the contributions. The same is true when it comes to disability pensions that have as many as 300,000. That seems to me to be why the government is proposing to abolish this right, because its abuse could not be prevented either retroactively or in the future, nor could the monetary obligations that followed it be realized. If a third-class disabled person had ten times less faith that the bill would not provide for the abolition of this right. Still, we can't end that right whose abuse we can't prevent. It is an obligation for the government to try to prevent such abuses, above all control of the already completed procedures, as well as those that will be brought forward. Of course, it's impossible for anyone to control tens of thousands of files, but that's not necessarily necessary. It is enough to carry out control for example 1,000, but to impose severe penalties for all irregularities. Fear of a safe punishment leads to respect for the laws of those who abuse this right, they can rightly hope that not all abuses will be revealed, but they must not have any hope of being punished if they are caught or passed with a fine. Speaking of fines, an inappropriately large range from minimum to maximum is foreseen in criminal provisions ranging from five to 400,000. This will in practice lead to any appeal at the level of the penalty being justified, because if the penalty imposed is approaching the minimum, then it is multiplely lower than the maximum, and in the opposite case the question arises why is so much greater than the minimum penalty; if the court, the first-degree infringement authority imposes a fine of 200,000, that penalty is twice the maximum, but 40 times the minimum. It will be difficult to give a just punishment, and especially to give an explanation why the punishment is just that height. It is not fair and it is suggested that the degree of increase in the employment rate is conditioned with 10 years of work on jobs that are particularly difficult and dangerous to health. In order to reduce the number of pensioners in this way, it is sufficient to go to the final restrictive establishment of jobs where the internship is calculated with an increased duration, as well as to reduce the degree of increase. Both of these rights so far have been largely abused and widely interpreted. This turns out to be just one working day depending on whether someone has five years of employment less or less. It turns out that a job is only harmful to health if it's done for ten years and longer. In that case, we would also have to change the definition of jobs where the internship counts for increased duration. But this is not a matter of deadlines, not political, not legal, but primarily a matter of medical science. It is also not justified to treat the financial compensation for the assistance and care of another person as a right that does not belong to the Corps of Disabilities Rights. The bottom line is that this law allows everyone, first of all, to ensure that they are at risk in case some basic needs of life cannot be implemented without the help of another person. This right to ensure that such a risk is abolished by this law, but only the right to a cash compensation is not lifted. In other words, the cash compensation will continue to be paid, but we don't know from which funds. I'm afraid that in some near future can even lead to the end of this right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27341	The word is by MP Dragan Ljubojevic, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on pension and disability insurance, which is now in front of the MPs of the Republic Assembly, governs a very important area, one of which depends on the existence of millions and 200 thousand pensioners. The explanation that government representatives, or resolution minister, contributed to the text of the law, states that the situation in the pension fund is bad because of the demographic and economic situation in our country. I think the order is the other way around, that, above all, the situation in the pension fund and in the whole area is bad because of the economic situation, because the payment fund from which pensions are provided is much smaller than the pension fund itself, or the funds needed to pay off pensions. The current government had almost three years of time to do something in the economy, or to speed up, increase economic activity, so that even harvesting, the economy grips would be adequate, so that pensions could be properly serviced. Some of the reforms that are suggested in this bill absolutely cannot be said because there are no essential reforms in this and this bill. The essence of this proposal for a pension and disability insurance law is that pensions are further reduced, i.e. new pensioners, but also these current pensioners will have a certain percentage of less pensions after a new pension account. What's also bad, and it's foreseen by this law, is that it leaves a large range between the lowest and the highest pensions. The fact is that this law limits the pension ceiling, i.e. the pension ceiling coefficient to four, but it is possible that someone entitled to a full pension may have a smaller coefficient than number one. The situation in the country is such that a large number of workers founded a working relationship in one company and spent their entire working life in the company, and we all know very well that there were companies that were 10, 20, 30, and 40 years doing business so that workers had less salaries than the average salary at Serbia level, so it is possible that someone has a less than one coefficient. This means that the differences between the largest pension and the lowest pension will be more than 1:4, which I find inadmissible, because retirement is a social category and above all should provide a minimum of living conditions for those who are no longer commercially capable, especially since this law foresees and introduces voluntary retirement insurance. So, one who makes more income than average and multiple times through his working life -- 5, 6, 7 and 10 times more income than that average at Serbian level -- has the ability to also stimulate one part of his income, one part of the assets that he makes in his active life, to focus on some of the voluntary pension funds, and thus achieves additional funds when he is not in a position to earn or earn income. There is one question, which is said in this law, that this area of voluntary retirement insurance will be regulated by some special law that will be proposed to the National Assembly for adoption. Just here I warn, unfortunately the government's representative is gone, that certain pension funds operate in Serbia on the principle of volunteering. The question arises on the basis of which laws and regulations these funds operate. The minister just said that they operate under federal insurance laws and that it is, in fact, the principle of life insurance. However, in particular, the company "Dunav bijj", so they say, so they call themselves, advertised publicly. You have here across from the main mail of their commercials. They represent themselves as a pension fund. I'm calling from here on one of the authorities to respond. If they're not a pension fund, why are they representing themselves as a pension fund? You know very well who is behind that fund, who is the founder of this fund, the son of Labus. There's a company registered in the Netherlands that's supposed to be a partner here with the Dunav Insurance Office. However, all of this needs to be examined. I warn you in time... A voice from the O.R. Labus doesn't have a son. I'm sorry, is something not clear? What are you yelling at? Talk to the doctor, I'm not in charge of cases like this. (Glass from the O.R.: You're for the doctor. ) Mrs. Comić, please, restrain and calm these unarticulated. The law on the agenda today will not bring any newspapers in the area of pension and disability insurance. It will extend the agony in which the pension fund is located. The SRS MPs will not vote for this law and I am confident that the law will not get the required majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27343	National MP Siniša Mitrovic, proposed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27344	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, in article 100, it clearly states that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I really wouldn't spoil the debutante's atmosphere, and I wouldn't really spoil that first position, I'd want my young colleague to be worthy. Parliament must speak truthfully, and you must respect the facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27345	The breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to communication. The MP has made false facts about the speaker, and we are all bound to respect the Rules of Procedure. It's something I don't need to remind you of. The breach of the Rules of Procedure continues by throwing from the parliamentary benches, completely unnecessary. Please respect the Rules of Procedure for all of us. The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27346	Dear Mrs Comic, dear fellow MPs, at the very beginning of my presentation, I must express my dissatisfaction with the fact that this session is held behind closed doors, despite the huge interest of young and old, employees and waiting people, especially pensioners, those who are in front of retirement and those who are long-term working hours waiting for employment, and today they are out of work. It's a terrible injustice that DOS practically banned today's television broadcast. Also, the way this session was called in, as well as that the parliamentary group and the SPS office had no information on the holding of the session on Friday to 15 hours, prompts certain oversight and demands both the president of the assembly and the DOS, who made it a way to schedule the sessions. When we add to this that both the press and television began to announce this session on Monday, I think it is quite clear that, with as little noise as possible, by the end of March, this law has been passed and practically impossible for a large number of people who are ahead of retirement and who would presently apply for retirement under the old law, which is certainly much better. Why this law goes into the process before budget rebalances, it will most transparently be seen at the session when budget rebalance comes, when this issue will be asked, and the desire to do so by the end of March is precisely for the general score to be the lowest, because the receipts during this period in the first three months are the same. Let me also point to some of the arbitraryness given in the light of this proposal. Namely, it is argued in the explanation that the share of pensions in the gross social product of 14.9% is the largest in the surrounding countries, as if the legislator or someone else had forgotten that in December of the month, which we were on board when we discussed these issues, we received materials, so this ministry, which clearly shows that social product participation in Slovenia is 13.4%, in Poland 13.7%, and questions whether there are really so many drastic differences. So, the explainer consciously supports only the things that suit him. Also, the ratio of the number of employees and pensioners is shown in an inadequate manner. In addition to today’s 1.6 staff supporting one pensioner, it is not clear that prior to the arrival of 2.5 employees, one pensioner was supported. As things stand now, we go very quickly to the situation that practically one employee will support a pensioner, or it will shrink further. I can illustrate this to you the examples of Leskovec, when I say that the unemployment rate in the Jablanic district has now been 30%, that at the beginning of the privatisation, that the unemployment rate has reached 45%, and it seems to me that this is a clear indicator of how practically the PIO Fund will be charged from the funds of those who need to pay it. I must remind you, dear gentlemen, that Leskovac (no district) had 23,000 unemployed, and since privatisation started, the number of unemployed has increased by several thousand, so now it's 26 or 27 thousand. When I tell you that the Vlasotince municipality of 2,500 employees has 5,000 unemployed, and I'm not counting any further, it's clear how the PIO Fund will practically be charged. Dear MPs, I am sorry that Mrs Matkovic is not here, but I am sure that the application of this law, when adopted, will clearly show how much this law, which has abolished the 10 best years, will be worse in terms of pensions. It's absolutely certain that this law (I'm not saying it by heart, I'm talking based on what prominent people at the PIO Fund say) pensions will be practically, pensions of new pensioners, by 20% to 25% less. We'll soon see to it, dear colleagues, who speak for this speaker the truth and who lies. True, it will be difficult to compare one condition with another, because as soon as this law comes into force, a program will be developed that will only computerly process a new state, so that mass comparisons will not be, but based on an example of those who have retired at this point will surely be able to say and see what the differences are in this. There are 32,000 pensioners in Jablanic County, of which 15% are senior pensioners, 5% disabled pensioners and less than 3% of family pensioners, and receive about 9,000 pensions and something more. When I tell you that in my Jablanic district almost 58% of senior pensioners, as many as 75% of disabled and 90% of family pensioners receive a pension of about 6,000, and that in December, the largest number of pensioners received only 3,800 dinars, then it is clear that this pension reduction will have an impact on all future pensioners. It seems to me that the number Mrs. Matkovic has instructed, of the 800,000 poor, will be greatly exceeded. And finally, I have to say something that I think is very important, which has not been paid much attention to, and I especially ask my colleagues from the position to pay attention to Article 236(3), which regulates the harmonisation of our laws and federal laws. This stance regulates pension funding under the special conditions laid down by the SRJ rules, and I do not know if the lawmaker is known and clear to the end that the rules of the Federation's pension laws, which originated in 1973, which has not been changed to the SFRJ, will not even be changed to the SRJ, and these legal rules still apply today, which allow for such allocation of funds between Serbia and Montenegro, where Serbia will be greatly threatened. I don't know if it's known that in the federal budget this fund was the second largest, so right behind the military fund. Therefore, if the rules of this 1973 law are maintained, the Republic of Serbia will be in great pain, as according to the accounts of PIO Montenegro, the additional funds that this Article 15 has been allocated from the federal budget for Montenegro were two to three times as much as normal. That is why I think it is necessary for Mrs Matkovic to deal with this issue in particular, and I have not been aware of this these days, so we have not submitted amendments in this direction, but I think it is necessary to seriously consider that the committee and the government submit amendments in such a way as to exclude this part of the Federation's obligations for pensions of fighters from Article 15, that this is not applied as a legal rule, which is currently in use, because it will cause huge problems in terms of both Serbia and the PIO budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27347	The People's Messenger Arsen the Qur'an has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27348	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the first mandatory pension and disability insurance of farmers in our country began in 1986 on the basis of health records. Since 1997, applications and records have been required to work local self-government through their local offices. The applicable law, which is still in force, does not clearly specify the concept of insurance, nor do local self-government have updated information on members of agricultural households. According to official data, on 28 February 2003, the total number of agricultural insurance companies in Serbia, without Kosovo and Metohija, numbers 418,373 people, and 213,751 pensioners in the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. So the current relationship between pensioners and insurance companies is 1:1.96. It's a very bad relationship that can't even service this fund, let alone honor peasant pensions. For example, only the first half of November 2001 will be paid at the end of this month. So he's 15 months late with the peasant pensions. This law continues to provide mandatory insurance for farmers, which is certainly one civilizational fluid, which simply places this category of population in a level and equalises with other categories of population. From the amendment, I noticed that some parliamentary groups in the Assembly advocate the abolition of this compulsory insurance, or they only promote the insurance of one household member. They justify this by the poor material status of peasants, low and irregular pension payments and the possibility of voluntary insurance. Currently in Serbia, the number of households with insured farmers is 289,126, with an average number of 1.45 insurance companies. So already, more than one household member is already on average provided. Mandatory insurance is necessary for a number of reasons. First of all, it's a way to provide some kind of social security to old people in the country. The average property in Serbia is too small that, due to the inability to continue work, only living on the country's lease. We should also know that, unfortunately, there are no more compact families in the villages, where young people stay in the country, take over the property and take care of their old members or there are very few. Voluntary security does not provide that security, because we know very well that when people are in need first give up what is voluntary and without which they estimate that they can, and of course later on, they are sacred. The important reason for keeping this type of insurance is the need to solve the problem so-called. technical surpluses or excessive industrial workers. Regardless of all attempts and social programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is clear that the problem of unemployment will not be resolved without returning to the countryside and rejuvenation of peasants. Also, it is not clear how we can motivate 180,000 people who are struggling and holding onto failed factories in the cities, while at the same time working extensively on agriculture in the country. How are they going to welcome a pension on a worker's insurance if they don't realize the continuity of the insurance? They won't have the motive to opt for agricultural work. Finally, the issue is also important if mandatory insurance is lifted, who will pay current pensioners and what will happen to those who have been paying contributions to the Fund so far? These are all issues that require mandatory insurance to remain. It's true that current pensions are both low and messy. This is the reason for the short start-up of the insurance from 1986, then the calculation by the lowest bases and of course the catastrophic situation in agriculture in the last decade, especially in the last two years. Well, that's where we came in on the right thing, so it's the main problem, the place of agrarians in our society, and the relationship of other business actions towards him. It's a good thing Mrs. Matkovic isn't here to commend her. He understands the state of agrarians and the poverty of peasants. If that were not the case, she would not even respect the reality that many households cannot reconcile the years-long backlogs and therefore propose a write-off, which is certain for every commendation. It is also appreciated that agriculture is produced under the clear sky and is subject to various weather disasters, and the possibility of a standstill in insurance in Article 14. It's also a good solution. But what it's worth when peasants don't understand their competent agriculture minister, or government in general. And that's why all these objectively good solutions for a large part of the peasants at this point are an additional burden. Unfortunately, the government continues its well-established practice of robbing agrarians, primarily so-called. "makase" price, i.e. the disparity of industrial and agricultural products, which are even more drastic than before at the expense of agriculture. Import lobbys continue to have all the rights and blessings of the ministry, so the price of domestic products is reduced smoothly. We're witnessing now that there's a pork crisis, where pigs fell to as much as 35 and 40 dinars per kilo, and winters were 60 dinars. The processing industry dictates all the prices of agricultural products still. We are witnessing again that the price of wheat is 8.5 dinars, and this year it was bought for 5.5 dinars from peasants. Not to mention the banal example that the egg is on the market for 2.5 dinars, which you could say to Lala for 10 dinars, and one gum or dry muffin costs that much. So, so much for the location of the agrarians, not to mention the money, when we talked about the budget, that the money from the agrarian budget is not spent on agrarian, it is also being poured into other purposes, etc. Dake, these are the problems that plague peasants and until this is solved there is no improvement with these proposed measures, which are generally and essentially not bad for peasants. Until the agrarian state is fixed, at least in this part, to help peasants, let's say by the reputation of some countries like Poland, where in so-called. 100% rural pensions are paid from state funds; 50% of contributions to the rural pension fund are paid in Croatia. The opportunity for this government will be to show concern for the peasants when we come to a debate on budget rebalancing, and we hope that not only declares it, but also really advocates and directs funds to improve the situation of the peasants as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-25-0.u27349	Adherent to the word in the principle debate are the MPs Tomislav Kitanovic and Mihajlo Jagodic. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has 12 minutes at its disposal. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Information on the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs; the session will be held today at 1800 hours at the Bureau's Office on the Ground floor.
