ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31138	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue to work. We would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Boško Ristic, Gordana Komić, Milka Marinković, Marko Djurisic, Vojislav Janković, Vladan Radovanović, Bojan Kostreš, Petar Misic, Nebojša Leković, Nada Kolundžija, Išpanovic Istvan, Branislav Pomorički, Srdjan Sikimić, Sava Popadić, Milan Stanković, Živodarka Dacin, Juhas Atil, Predrag Stojanović and Dragan Šutanovac. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: -The bill on the basis of the education and education systems (the extension in particular) was submitted by the National MP Pal Shandor to Article 84 of the amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31139	Dear colleagues, let me just say a few words about this amendment. What is regulated by Article 84, or what I wrote as an amendment to Article 4, and it would make sense to accept the amendment to Article 4, is one of the essential things of this law. One of these essential things is that for 11 years I have submitted various amendments to various bill proposals, to be private, trusty, and I don't know what other schools. What this law formulates - both other legal and physical faces. I think it's one, essentially five newspapers in this law. This is: three plu three, flexibility of the program, possibility of private initiative, teacher licenses and final exams. I see these crucial newspapers in this law and everything else is more or less in line with those problems. Therefore, if this amendment 4 had been accepted, which I have formulated - basic education and a free school whose founder is the Republic, province and units of local self-government, then it would have made sense to delete Article 84, and its erasure I suggested because the first sentence formulates the right to free education, as the chapter is called, and then the second sentence formulates exceptions from that, because it says - an extraordinary student of secondary school pays, and then does not define the right to free education. But since it is the way it is, and I think it's well formulated in two members in 4 and 84 because it says at 4 that basic education is mandatory and free and there's no dilemma. When we come to educate our children and these other and physical and legal persons, the fact that many colleagues here have talked about buying diplomas and that there will be no knowledge of any abuses, if there is control by the Ministry, if control is rigorous and the quality of teachers is required, and whoever wants more than that, then there is really no fear and there is one radical, good news in this law and since it is formulated as it is formulated in the 4th and 84th articles, then I will withdraw this amendment and that was the essence of that story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31140	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Shandor Pal. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want the People's Parliament word? It's pulling the amendment. ) I find that MP Shandor Pal has withdrawn the amendment to Article 87. It's a bill of law. Members of the 87th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31141	I would like to ask one question about the Legislative Committee, or, in addition to the report, no amendments to the Education Committee, so I would like to ask you what is going on with these amendments. Furthermore, as far as this law is concerned, we believe that education reform is not its essence, i.e. whether basic education will last eight or nine years, but is the essence of what will be studied in that time, what methods and means will be used and the way economic competences are used to accomplish these tasks. There was no reason for education to move to a nine-year-old border, nor could it be an excuse that the child would be more covered by elementary school for one year. My parents met me this morning and asked me what it was when my kid came home from school and wanted to have a grade. If we take that for two years there are no grades or there's a descriptive evaluation, and we've had a chance to see it, and it's been from some cases sometimes, it's been bad, it hasn't been good, and now we've got a re-introduction of descriptive evaluation. If that was requested in the middle of the first year, maybe it could be explained somehow, but this is how we think that this time that's chosen, given what we've been looking for and what we're constantly asking to be given a copy of the number of lessons in nine years, let's see what that's going to be studying. Will it not be the part that has been introduced or introduced in Republika Srpska, which is under the directive, and I want to see as a MP if it is nine years old and the concepts differ, let's see how many Serbians in nine years, how many items, and what they'll be called. There's no more experimenting in education this way. Bring the law and we'll do whatever we want and whatever we want. So I asked a month or two ago for you to offer us ministers not by age but by how many classes there are and what they call classes that will be studied in elementary school in nine years. It's basic, at least that much we can be informed. You're running away from it and it's a very important thing. What we're different in concept, that's one part and the other part that's very dangerous is that you can't see what's going to be studied in nine years. Not what year and how, but in nine years, the number of hours per case.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31142	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31143	Therefore, we are not prepared, let it remain written, that we are for eight years and for reform within programming, methodical and other content.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31144	Are any of the other authorised participants applying for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and then a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31145	The entire reform, Members of Parliament, rests on the results of the OECD, World Bank and UNICEF analysis. Their conclusions are that we need to bring our education into line with the education system that is in the European Union, but I would like to remind you that Croatia had this ultimatum, so it did nothing as the World Bank and UNICEF asked the state of Croatia. They and how they know what their state interest is, that's why they managed to win the state, and we obviously want to lose the state. The concept proposed by three plus three plus three for primary education does not mean much to us MPs, nor does it tell us enough about what they will do and how much they study in elementary school. We trust it all with some advice, and we won't have control of that advice, and after this law is passed, there's gonna be a lot left unsaid, and we'll only later, if we control the books, that's it. the textbooks of our children, the ability to see whether we did the right thing or not. At least this law should frameworkally regulate how many classes per week students should have at what age, or which grade, how many of those basic items that will not be alternative, which will be evaluated, which will not be elected. So we know if we're on the right track or not. I understand that the law that bears the name of the system is one framework that will eventually fit into the law on basic and secondary education, but perhaps in the package of all three laws we should change, supplement, build up so that we here can rightly make decisions on what is of interest to our children, that is, what kind of youth we want and what children need to master at the age of 15 or 16 and how qualified they are for further education. I am convinced that the World Bank's intentions are not that our children are further educated and that there are as many intellectuals as possible, and especially that there are as many vocational schools as possible and that there is a reduction in the number of high school schools where they give general education and which are practically a lobby for the university. It's not the World Bank that our children are highly educated, it's that there's as many manual labour as possible to be a cheap workforce.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31146	The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Ministers and Assistants, members of the Government, there are a lot of objections here, but when it comes to article 86, I think it's probably a mistake, because preschool institutions are doing activities. So, no class, no class. We have increased here and there usually held two or three activities a day and nothing more. If we want the kids to play, get ready, that's exactly the age, it's not the lower, middle and higher age. It's here for all four hours in general, and it's too much to have a three-year-old or five-year-old tops, because they're the oldest, they spend four hours, if it's known they've had much better conditions in preschool institutions so far, and they could play and do some activities. Look, those weren't some classes, they were activities, and that took half an hour at the most, and that was the time, after that they could be free. So we fix them four hours in preparation for what happens next. What happens next, it's a two-year game, it's first and second grade. As for Article 87, I think that yearly education has already been accepted everywhere, and there are not many reasons, and especially what it wants, and that's well explained here, that the first three classes are mostly class classes, so that the second grade be some sort of class and class relationship and those last three, normally, would be taught. It's kind of adapting students to a new situation, and we kind of interrupt that gap between fourth and fifth grade. Our children had the most problems when they moved from fourth to fifth, because until then they had class classes, they had one teacher who took care of them more than a parent, and here they got teachers who watch only the subject and don't see any of it, as well as the program, so there were problems. I think it can be avoided, but there's no proposal, I don't see it, and it's mostly around the world that teachers change classes every year, so they specialize, one runs first class, the second runs second class, and third year, etc. They would then avoid just forming some familiarity and overly binding to a teacher. A teacher can't be everything and all practical for a child, and that's how a person is formed. It is that these are very sensitive years, psychologists know it better that those years when children acquire certain values, they are permanent, and that they are years from the third, fifth, sixth years and later, but that's exactly the year we start with preschool, or we transform and move into a school system. If they're so important, we can just avoid each other in this other way that each teacher leads one class, it has a double meaning. First of all, he'll specialize in it, he doesn't need to know at all how many objects and that he's professional in all classes, but he'll be in one class, and the other classes will be led by other teachers. Second, the children will not get used to this parental, topedagogic acceptance, and later they experience great tremors as they move into the upper class...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31148	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31149	I'm done, I'm sorry, just a few seconds. I think there's some indiscretion in this law. You have heard that Sinod of the Serbian Orthodox Church has also asked that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, and that is what we have asked for, not that we are against reform, but that we move within a year and create a real law, that is, to carry out a reform that will function both Serbia and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31150	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31151	I don't want to cheer anyone up about it, but we've come to an absurd situation for the Socialists to hide behind Sinod. Wonderful, wonderful. So, a few levels of apparition were here, and I'm going to try to answer everything. [[Sagar.]] I'm sorry, I listen to you all very carefully, I realize I'm here for you, I'd just like to ask you to listen to what I have to say, nothing more than that. In 1929, a law on folk schools was passed. The law introduced basic four-year education in Serbia. From that year 1929 to 1952. In 1953, nothing changed. In 1952-1953, some regulations were laid down that were tried at the age of eight. In 1958, however, eight years were finally passed. So, between 1929 and 1958, he was 29. That's what it For 29 years, our children went to four years of school and then went to eight years of compulsory education. It's been eight years since then. It's been 45 years between that year and today. The current situation is that all the countries in Europe, so I'm talking about Europe, have education, when everything is added up and divided, for nine and a half years. So the length of the duration of education, of course average, and that's why I'm saying it, is nine and a half years. So by introducing nine-year-old education, we go on average. We're not going to the extremes of any, but we're going on average and I think it's an extension of compulsory education from eight to nine years old, that this people deserve it and that these children deserve it and that they deserve the state as a need to increase their educational potential for generations to come. Other objections were to that number of classes and classes. My lords, this is a roof law, and never by law were an object and a number of classes, but never in history. Don't ask the law to predict something it never did. Mr. Garcevic, please read the proper regulations. Special laws sometimes provide for in some countries, but never by general law. What will look like the items were published two months ago, and it's my gentlemen at a public hearing all June. We're waiting for your signals. No one's giving signals. What's this about? Did we come here to spit or do we want to improve this country's education system? If you want to give them signals, we'll install anything we can. Here, in legal matter, you can't predict objects. It's living matter. Do we have to change the law every year because we fixed that knowledge of nature and society is one subject? I don't know what we're talking about here. Finally, the Synod of the Church, as mentioned, I have no intention of opening any debate. Two months ago, a month and a half ago, a meeting was held on Tolstoy Street in the government building, which I attended and attended in the organization of the Ministry of Religion of All Religious Communities. To the religious communities, the concept of the law is out of the question. They knew him before anyone else. They got it in an electronic version through the Ministry of Faith before anyone else. Then we received from Mr Irine Bulovic and other representatives of all religious communities consent, i.e. support for the law. That's true. So, I'm telling you about how you prepared this law. Synod has a legitimate right to say what he wants and no one will ever question it. Since they are calling for some resolution, the resolution signed in France 7, at the Library Club in the presence, not to tell you now who it was, was also one representative of the church, which is Atanasia Jeftic Episcopal, who publishes a wire magazine and they are based on the criticism of the Ministry for the pedagogical progressive heritage, the annulment of the pedagogical progressive heritage. Progressiveism is the direction of which the biggest representatives of Dewey and Kilpatrick are. It was originally created in the 17th century by Komensky and Makarenko. Progressivism as its basic principles takes active part in teaching, taking care of psychological principles of learning, taking care of interests, the life experience of a child. Gentlemen, that's what's in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31152	National MP Zarko Obradovic, right to replica on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31153	I would like on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, using, of course, the parliamentary right to reply, to tell Mr. Minister, Mr. Socialist Minister, members of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia do not need to hide behind the Sinod of the Serbian Orthodox Church. We have publicly told you in your face that we will not vote for such a law, because in our opinion the law is very bad and it seems to me, Professor Bora Stanimirovic and the other MPs have stated not to shine, but a million reasons why this law is not good and why it should be withdrawn. If the Serbian Orthodox Church, Sinod, has some reasons, she announced them. Please, there is absolutely no hiding behind the Serbian Orthodox Church. They have their own attitude, we have our own attitude and we have announced it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31154	Mr. Garcevic, he didn't insult you. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31155	This is the material that we got thanks to you that you were doing, that you were translating, and I didn't invent anything. It's a material that says this is from Sweden, from the law. The number of teaching 60 minutes in compulsory elementary school per subject and group of subjects says: artistic education 230, household and consumer education, so translated, 118, sport and health 500, musical education 230, means musical education, ritual, I didn't know what it was in ours, Swedish language 1,490, English 480, mathematics, meaning items are called so, 900, geography 885, history, 885, religious education 885, citizen 885, biology 800, chemistry, it's a translation into Croatian, 800, stand-up 800, original language 320, electoral class 385, and a total total number of hours 6,665, of which is mandatory, meaning that it can minimise 20% of it. I didn't make it up. I did deal with the Slovenian law of the Minister, but in other segments. I tried, when I asked, to really read everything, to look at everything, and this is the real truth. I asked to see it, and when I see it, then I know where basic education is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31156	There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Nenad Lemajic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31157	Our amendment to Article 87 is consequent and stems from the amendment to Article 73, and is related to the DSS' position on the organisation of a nine-year-old school. We, of course, advocate a nine-year elementary school, but we think it's better to organize by model 6 + 3. There are two reasons for that. The first one is pedagogical, and the second one is traditional. The pedagogical reasons are primarily related to the programme, because regardless of what the middle model, as suggested by the Ministry, would represent one transitional solution between the first and third sections with the combined class and the classes under consideration, we believe that it is essentially closer to the first part, while the last, third segment, seventh, eighth and ninth classes, is already largely prone to one differentiated and directed follow-up. The second reason is traditional. In fact, our school has been very traditionally organized so far, quite strictly defined, which is the very group, in which teaching is performed, means classes with clear coordinates, and we believe that we have to take account of this tradition. The flexibility in teaching should be introduced and it is very desirable, but it should be introduced in such a way that we respect what is one of our pedagogical experience to active teaching, which, of course, is our wish, quite a long way and it will certainly not happen within a short time. For these reasons, we think that model 6 + 3 is better than model 3 + 3 + 3, regardless of what exists between the two models and quite similarities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31158	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) There is no application for a word after this amendment. The 88th Amendment was submitted by MP Pal Shandor. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31159	Here in article 88, the first position says - secondary education and education lasts two, three or four years. My idea was that one of those teaching programs that was usually scheduled for two years would be realized for three years, with the idea that as much practice as these students have, and under the control of their teachers. I was talking about they were making the top part of the shoe, the bottom part of the shoe, the left side of the shoe, the right side of the shoe, and they didn't know how to make the shoe. So it's not my idea to erase this possibility from two years of high school, aimed at anything else, but only to increase it, because I counted that this is an insufficient number of specific classes, means practice, but that in three years, the curriculum and the programme are scheduled for two years, and that they have more what is a concrete practice. So they know they're scraping off one bolt, if they need a bolt to scrape, and they know they're programming that machine and string, because that's the kind of string they're doing, so they're learning something concrete. It was my only idea, so I'd leave it to the MPs to give themselves up. I have to admit I'm not too hard on this request, but I think there's a possibility and there's a reason, a team before this is extended for a year, a general education. If we had achieved a two-year program in three years, we would have got people who would be skilled in concrete professions, in the right way. It's just my idea, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31160	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. There's no application. Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment is an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 88 of the amendment with the correction, the MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic jointly submitted. Is there an application for a word? No, I don't. ) The applicant of the amendment does not want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31161	The government did not accept this amendment with an explanation -- the amendment should not be accepted because earlier inclusions in the education process create more space for more flexible programmes. From this explanation, I didn't understand anything. Who can understand this government, though. I'm still saying what's written in the explanation of our amendment, that no one has the right to take away a year of carefree childhood, and that a child who goes to the first grade of the school at the age of seven can accomplish much in life, we have many examples. I started primary school at seven and a half years old, and I finished law school when I was 22. I don't see where I'm being denied it. I don't see where I'm being denied it. I'll give you an example of a man whose example really deserves to be an example to everyone, that's Mr. Vojislav Seselj, who was born on October 11th. So when he went to first grade, he was seven years old, one month and 11 days old. In his 23 ’ s, he was a doctor of science, became a university professor in his 30 ’ s, engaged seriously in his work, engaged seriously in science, and in his scientific work, in his current working age, discovered even two plagiarists. One was in Sarajevo, Brana Miljus at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and was chased by Fuad Muhic, Hambia Pozverac, Hakija Pozverac, Branko Mikulic. This is where he discovered another plagiarizer, that's Stevan Liliæ. The plagiarism has been confirmed by the Serbian Supreme Court's decision and because of that discovery, Mr. Minister, you have persecuted and expelled Professor Seselj from the Faculty of Law. Regardless of that famous ultimatum of yours, he or I, you have succeeded because of the current circumstances to drive him away from law school, but you have failed to take away his doctoral title, or his university title, or everything he has achieved, even though he started first-class primary school with just over seven years. About all this, about the way you forced Professor Seselj out of college, Mr. Minister, you may have forgotten, I'm the one that Vojislav Seselj, with the authority, sent to you to get that act at the Ministry you didn't give him, and all the newspapers wrote about him... (President: Theme and Time. I'm warning you, you've overstepped your time. I'm the one who brought you the book that described it all, DOS-manley fairs at Law School.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31162	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. There's no application. The amendment was submitted by MP Pal Shandor to Article 92. I'm withdrawing my amendment. You're pulling? I find that MP Pal Shandor has withdrawn the amendment to Article 92. It's a bill of law. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 92. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31163	Ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 92, that the first position of the proposed amendment, the proposed member, deletes the words "and the final exam under the special law" and refers to enrolment in the first grade of high school, a person with acquired primary education. We ask this amendment not to introduce an institute, or a final exam category at a primary school, so-called "small graduation". We mention that it is necessary to introduce reforms in education, but not in this way and with these solutions, in most cases, such as the bill. Those enrolled in high school are still unformed personalities, in a psychoemotional, intellectual sense and physical sense, which is less important in this case. In the period of primary education, eight years later, according to this bill and nine years, students had time and countless opportunities to show the degree of their knowledge and what they had learned. At one point in passing the final exam, the younger minors as yet unformed persons are more susceptible at that time to passing exams, to a more effective mood, to fear, to three, to stress, to the presence of different emotions, so that, through the assessment they receive at the time, they can express the wrong teaching of matter, or material by students, precisely because of all these psychoemotional conditions at the time of the exam. A student cannot show his true knowledge in one or possibly two days, whether it is negative or positive. It may seem a little harsh to you, but if there is a trade in mandates in the Assembly, there may be a trade in grades, just in one or two days of passing the final exam. Mr. Minister, you already know that the Holy Archaeological Synod of the Serbian Orthodox Church has proposed to withdraw from the procedure a bill on the basis of a system of primary and secondary education. Finally, let me ask you, Mr. Minister, is it true, and the press said that the Ministry of Education and Sports, and you, as a resolute minister, made a decision to allow students, members of the Adventist religious sect to pass exams on Monday 16th, not 14, because it's the 14th of Saturday, which is a cult popular in the people called "sabotari"?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31164	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31165	God forbid you've approved it, because the law makes it clear that all children are taking the same exam on the same day. As for enrolment of students in high school, the SRS advocates that there are no qualification exams, no final exams. We're even at that high school level, so when kids graduate from high school or high school, that if graduation is delayed, then they're released from the entrance exam, and that kids should be given the opportunity to enroll in the desired school, so that through schooling, they can determine whether they've made the right choice or not. So, the first year of university is free for all students, everyone to sign up wherever they want, and then if they don't give the first year, go to emergency students and then be the economic cost of studying. Also, we believe that, given the white plague that is ruling in Serbia, it is not good to put extra burden on children and what few children we have, we should try to preserve their psychophysical health and not need to send them to school too soon, we do not need to check them very often if they are grades they have, and they have acquired them for nine years of learning, whether they were real and just or if someone has given them grades. It's the meaning of this final exam that doesn't make any difference with the exam, it's not the neck, you have the reception, you don't have it, but you have the final exam, and now at this transitional stage, you've predicted that the entrance exam is being passed where the children taught elementary school so that this moment is not particularly important to them and to show adequate results. There are other ways for such a thing, children should possibly be given some tests once every three months, on each trimester, some standard that is prescribed, and there could be teachers to correct themselves, as well as students, and to see if the previous grades were adequate to their knowledge or not, and to free the children of this tension, because, believe me, there are examples of parents holding children in quarantine before taking the preliminary exams, and that will be in these final exams. So much is rising that tension whether it is going to pass or not, with how many points, with what assessment, that the less it becomes a meaning of knowledge, and the more sense becomes that assessment and that transition, and then it affects the interpersonal relations between these young people. Now you don't have a chance for a child to help someone or someone to whisper something, that competitor, so it all leads to individualizing him, instead of going to some width where he becomes a part of the community. So we are against these concept final exams and admission exams, we should appreciate what the children have shown and appreciated, after all, and the work of teachers and teacher evaluations, and in order to comply with some standards and criteria there must be some other ways.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31166	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) On Article 95 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pal Shandor. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) The Government and the Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31167	This is about the following, there is no reason for textbooks, if we are going towards the spiritualisation of borders in Europe, created in another environment, please, with the special approval of the Minister, not used in our schools. This is the essence of my amendment, as textbooks, are used in Serbia, used in Bosnia, Hungary, Romania, as the textbooks created in Austria are used in Italy, as our textbooks are used in Austria and Germany and other countries, there is no reason why, with the special approval of ministers, such textbooks cannot be used, especially if we are going to have specialist high school or some other school, where there is simply some number of textbooks that are better in a foreign language and there is no reason to say - this textbook corresponds to quality, this textbook can't, and this textbook can't, to state the reasons or not to state them. I'd like you to accept that amendment, because I think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31168	The Minister accepts the amendment. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31169	It's a textbook policy, and I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31170	So, the government accepts the amendment, but we will still have to declare the amendment, since the Committee did not accept the amendment of MP Pal Shandor. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31171	I have to protest sharply against this amendment, indeed and against accepting this amendment, and I don't think that's good, and here's why. Croatians are a national minority in Serbia, imagine textbooks from Croatia or the Muslim-Croatian Federation that they bring here and completely reflect our country's borders. They clearly show the claims of the Croats, and this is about history that I'm not talking about. Are we gonna let that happen? I understand Mr. Sandor, he means the Hungarian National Community. And I'm against it, you know, there's already a law that provides that a stranger can start a school in language and in programs and some kids go to that school, but our state school, which this country pays, can't, gentlemen, by foreign programs, just by our own programs that this country approves. What's this gonna look like, how long are we gonna go? We don't know where we live, like we don't know what's happened to us in the last 12 years, what about the Shiptars? We now call our Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija a national community, and are we normal people, are we normal? We are not normal, because as far as it can be in the Serbian country, the Serb national community and as long as we use such rhetoric, what is happening to us will happen to us, and this country will seek the help of NGOs in the world and solve the issue of the Cyprus implementation in Kosovo and Metohija, we are doing everything wrong. This law is a disaster. I didn't get a chance to read it, and I don't think it even said what the Sinod of the Serbian Orthodox Church resented this law, after all, has the right of any religious community who, of course, has been admitted to giving their opinion about it, and they haven't said what it is that bothers them, but apparently they also realize there's a lot of things here that aren't in the interest of the Serbian national being, and you're going over it. I only hope that, as part of this work of the Constitutional Court, one day, a constitutional court, which will work under the Constitution and the law, will make a decision that will say that all the laws that this assembly has made since 23 May last year have been invalid. It's the only salvation, or we're going to have to break all these laws by decree.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31172	Right on the line, MP Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31173	Dear colleagues, I think the government has done a very good thing by accepting the amendment, because it says very precisely: "based on the approval of the minister". The minister, I hope, will have enough Serbian state-of-the-art consciousness that textbooks that are of this kind of content, as you say, simply do not approve. So this is a possibility, and it's not an obligation. If we want to be Eurocompatible and if we want to enter Europe in 2007, and I have nothing against 2011, I hope we will experience it, then these disputes are out of the question, because everyone will be able to use every textbook. It's going to be something that's most normal. If the Serbs had gone through the civil rights line for the Serbs in Croatia and elsewhere, and not, those famous nights in this assembly -- we are the strongest and then we will fight each other, then the story of the Serbian national interests could be different. But Slobodan Milosevic led such a policy as he led because he did not realize that he could go through the line of civil rights, with the help of the international community, to the maximum for Serbs in Croatia. Just look at the Z-4 plan in the state, a special bank, a special judiciary, a special militia. He says he won't accept it, and that story is now passing. So we're in a situation where one day we want to come to Europe. I mentioned an honorary member of the SPS. I didn't mean to. Besides, that's what I told him. He sat here in the Assembly when I said - Mr Milosevic, don't go to war, you can make everything happen through the civil rights line for Serbs in Croatia. He said we're the strongest, we know we're fighting. Then the Serbian nation suffered a disaster, as the Hungarians experienced in Trionon. We can't be victims of that policy. Therefore, the minister has the right not to accept any of this, not to approve anything, where he thinks there are problems that are disputable, and where things are not debateable, there are the most normal textbooks to be used, such as textbooks and books created in Serbia in other countries. I don't see anything going on here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31174	Replica, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31175	I may not say anything new, but I have one thing to say again. As time goes by, the facts go wrong and everyone explains it the way they want to. On account of Mr. Pal Shandor's exposure, I must say that either I didn't understand him or he didn't say it right. The fact is that the state leadership of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS, then demanded that the Z-4 plan be adopted. Therefore, there is no assessment that we were against that plan. Why he's not adopted, it's another story that's not on the agenda right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31176	The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31177	There's a lot of dilemma about article 95. As for the first part, he is quite clear and good: "The minister can approve more textbooks for the same class class as the foreign textbook." That's normal. Our practice so far has not been good, precisely because we only had one textbook. He who manages to impose himself on the Bureau for the publishing of textbooks, keeps the monopoly for years and every year presses and changes the covers to textbooks, and as far as the contents are concerned, he remains the same. Nowhere in the world will students learn from a textbook. If we want reform, we have to enable students to use the method of application, whether it will be a problem textbook, whether this textbook will be particularly chronological, etc., the textbook that suits it. After all, I've been on the board to argue that our students don't carry books and bags, but to have them at school. It looks a lot at first glance, but it doesn't cost much, that school has an organized whole-day stay. Our schools are not burdened by the number of students because of their low birth rate. A third of Serbia can apply a day-long stay, where we would gradually enter into reform, which is the right reform. We can't reform if we have 38 students. For example, the member before this was that the teacher had an obligation, before he had an obligation to evaluate students twice in the midterm, and now even four times. That's good, but he must have fewer students, much fewer students, to access some new methods that would allow him to monitor his students daily, in order to get those grades. When we talk about grades, I think we have a lot of problems here. I said last time, they're all fighting for grades, not knowledge. When it comes to languages, I wouldn't particularly get into it. It is likely that practice will solve the question of textbooks in the languages of national minorities. I'm not against it, and I think it'll work out, but we have a very difficult experience with Albanian textbooks. Tirana professors directly, without elections and re-election, worked at universities in Pristina and brought their textbooks from Tirana and taught these textbooks. That's the problem, that it's not happening right now, that they're bringing us textbooks from another country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31178	The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31179	It's not just European conventions, it's also a practical problem. Whether you want it or not, this world is moving forward. Whether you want it or not, things change. I visited both Croatia and Hungary. They showed me our textbooks that work there. So let's not act like people from the previous millennium. They work in our textbooks, students of Serbian ethnic origin in Croatia. Let us not express in advance a fear that is not justified. As for what Mr. Stanimirovic said, it is true that there is a danger, but it was illegal even when it happened. It wasn't then that the law, whoever brought it, even if the Socialists, predicted the possibility of importing textbooks. They did it illegally and you can never stop it. Besides, you know how much it takes for a teacher to introduce foreign textbooks, especially in language. It's a nonses, to forbid Oxford press releases English textbooks. Life forces us to act one way and the only question is to bring politics into line with that behavior. Everything is in sync, and besides, you have the consent of a minister. I won't always be, maybe there'll be some other policy options.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31180	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 95th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31181	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment follows the previous amendments to the SRS and is in line with the amendments so far submitted. We believe that the Ministry must be competent and responsible for the adoption of the law. So, instead of the text currently in Article 95, we ask that the words "on the proposal of the Centre for the Development of School Programmes and textbooks" be deleted and that the text remains "in the achievement of educational-experienced work, textbooks and teaching tools used by the committees of ministers with special legislation" are used. It's from the first members of this law that we've asked not to form this center, so we're following it with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31182	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31183	We have submitted this amendment as part of the concept that we followed during the application of amendments to the entire law, related to the development of the school programme, because we are against these centres, but we are also against the use of foreign textbooks. What you said about languages, I really think that the English language textbook is probably better if it came to us from England than if we made it, but then you could say decadently - when it comes to foreign languages. Here's what's left of it. We can use foreign textbooks from any subject. And not only in you, in which we do not trust that you will take care of the Serbian national interests, someone after you can come, someone else who will also not be trusted, and this should not be tied to a man who is acting as a minister, we simply want to regulate it by law and not leave at all the possibility for the minister to decide. You know, you talked about plan Z-4, Mr. Shandor also spoke about it, the legitimate leadership of Republika Srpska and the SRS were against this plan Z-4, and that's history recorded and there is not one Serb in Republika Srpska who was in favour of the plan. Our obligation was to protect the interests of that people who lived there. Now we need to learn from the textbooks of the Croatian state and we know what they've done to us. To remind you of 1991, 1992 and 1994 where in the villages of Islam Greece, Islam Latin, the beastly tormented an old man and an old man of 80 and a change of years, pulling out their eyes, I don't know how they were harassed, and then eventually hung. Well, that can't be forgotten. And now, as our visas have been lifted and yesterday the television shows up here without a visa to go to Croatia. Did all these cameras get his parents to take the kid by the hand and want him to cross the border and pick up the butchers under the knife? You couldn't find anyone. Therefore, you let go of being in Zagreb all the time and you and Ceda Jovanovic and I don't know who else and you're agreeing on something. There is no life there for Serbs, which for 200 years history has shown us, but it's a sin that those people who are at the head of the country don't see. Therefore, we are still, let it be written, against learning in Serbia in foreign textbooks as you predicted, and cannot allow national minorities in Serbia, in public schools, in Serbian, to learn in foreign textbooks. No one, non-national minority. It's an SRS position and it's ours to warn you that it's not good and you're doing as you please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31184	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted the amendment to Article 97. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since you have heard the presentation of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, who has told you enough about a thousand years of Croatian barbarism in our space, and you can also read part of the book History of Serbian Nationalism, Professor Vojislav Seselj. The SRS Parliament Club has submitted an amendment to Article 97 relating to student responsibility. In that Article 97, it is defined that by exercising its rights, a student should not endanger others in the exercise of their rights. The student has an obligation, so seven items are listed from the student’s need to regularly attend classes to protect the school’s property, cleanliness, and aesthetic appearance of school rooms. As far as it's concerned, it's really nothing. The problem is when there is a problem with the general act and with a law that is a special law for serious violations that students can commit. It is certain that the student can only be held accountable for the breach of an obligation that was prescribed at the time of execution by either a special act or a special law. A general act if it is a minor violation, and for the more serious, a specific law has been defined. What is problematic is the principle of righteousness. It is that every possible guilt is decided as urgently as possible, so simply that the student would not be in a position stand by because then the student can also be evaluated and simply under pressure for the last few months for his school duties. There is a possibility and abuse, although I'm sure the minister knows that, because if someone commits an offence, for example. Two and a half months before the end of the school year, there's a possibility of amnesty and someone for example. in some extreme things such as political likeness or incompatibility, if the child is such parents at school, that in the last two and a half months, if there is a breach, the school year ends and then there is no factual possibility of taking action against such a student, let alone the realization. It is precisely defined here that the educational discipline measure can only be given to the student for violation of the obligation made during that school year, where the student participates in the work. Therefore, the amendment of the SRS is clear, since we believe that the deadline proposed by the Minister on behalf of the Government, that the SRS has set a deadline which is a little more appropriate, i.e. a time period of 15 days solves the problem of whether it is easier or more serious infraction, so I would really ask the minister to accept this amendment on behalf of the Government, because both students and teachers, and also parents, will facilitate the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31186	The word came from the minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31187	I agree. The problem is around the length of that deadline, and since the proposed deadline by the SRS is actually in the interest of students, the Government accepts the amendment and we agree to a cut-off.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31188	I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the amendment to Article 97, although a decision will be required since the Committee has not accepted this amendment, as well as Mr Pal Shandor's amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31189	I'd just go back and ask the minister to pay attention when it comes to Article 95, because I didn't have time before, so I'm going to put it a little faster. (Glasses -- that's what we've been through. We did, but it's very important to correct only one word because of the law. That's the last attitude, but here's what's taking my time because the minister doesn't listen, it's not worth it, so it's not worth talking about. When it comes to this final position - the achievement of educational and probationary work can also be used by other optional means and aids in accordance with the specific law. Be careful, there are no other resources in the educational work and there are no other tools, but they are teaching tools. So, Mr. Minister, it should stand - teaching means, because if other funds and aids are, then it's something else, and there's more than one mistake that needs to be corrected by the law in article 95.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31190	Please don't go back to the amendment after which we've already completed the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31191	We're going to this article 97, I think the Ministry missed a chance to fix the law, and I'm sorry. Here when you list the rights of students, which are required by a student and what is forbidden to him, but the student can only be held accountable for the violation of the students who were prescribed by a special law or by a general act. Please, we're not predicting anywhere that a student can be banned from smoking at school, from drinking alcohol and from using drugs. It's not intended anywhere, and unless it's prescribed by law, we can't punish him for that. So I suggest that the Ministry somehow decides to do this practically, because you have a very dramatic situation in schools today, and that the highest number of fifth-grade and sixth-grade students are smokers, alcohol consumption, and what's most tragic, they use drugs. We've forbidden them some banal things, and we haven't banned them from doing it. That's my remark.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31192	The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31193	Just one explanation and one question to ask. Let's just say the student deserves to conduct a disciplinary procedure against him, and the disciplinary procedure doesn't take place, so what, in that case? Nothing and no one's answering. I remind you, and yesterday I was a little under fire and emotion, what my child experienced. I went to school and told teachers and school principals what happened even though they knew about it. I know exactly what professor made such an air conditioning to get there. In a conversation with the director and teacher, I was told what kind of mother a daughter is. That's what it's all about. I didn't even want to visit those children's parents. I brought the kids together, told them it wasn't nice what they did, that it was their friend who they were having a good time with, and how well they hung out and came into our house, and I don't know what happened. They say, (From the O.R.: Theme. There will be a theme when something like that happens to your child the next day. I just want you all to taste what some of us have tasted by coming to power. Then you will have understanding and then you will know what tolerance is and then you will realize that democracy is not hate, but respect for diversity and political struggle for your political, economic and social programme. It doesn't mean that we have to hate each other, if we're different political orientations, and even less, it means that someone in our families should suffer because we're involved in politics, and especially children, of course. So, I don't know what's going on if the disciplinary procedure doesn't take place against the students, and I'm not talking about teachers or the school director who deafens up about it and tells us then, and in 2001, all of Belgrade high school I went to and no director wanted to offer me to sit down and talk to him and ask him to take my kid to school. The accident wanted me to be in a high school, not knowing that I had a headmaster living across the street from me, to get me to work, and to get my papers, and to get that kid into school. Otherwise, you'd be left with a year to lose to school.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31194	The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezavić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31195	First, I'd like to say that everything is off topic, but I'm going to answer the question. The position of the school's body is whether or not to initiate the procedure. If no procedure is initiated, an interested person can activate inspections, inspections are at the municipality level and exist at the Ministry level. In that case, if it's a failure to do something on official duty, or what they were obliged to do, we can sanction the school.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31196	On what basis are you answering? Wait, an authorised representative of the SPS had his word on this amendment. (Zarko Obradović, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, that's what I'm asking. So, breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP, here you go. (Zarko Obradovic, from the scene: I'll say it when I get out.) I'm asking you on what basis you're answering, and you're saying "The Rules of Procedure." I can't guess why you're picking up. (Zarko Obradovic, from town: You should not guess. I'm asking you why you're picking up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31197	If I make a mistake in hurting the Rules of Procedure, I'll be warned. I'm looking at the clock, because it's been 24 hours compared to my last night's commercial injury to the Rules of Procedure and nothing. We still haven't received a vote from the SPS parliamentary group since May 31st. There were words that the president of the National Assembly, and I have advertised two violations of the Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly and the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Micic, would have ordered the appointment of the Administrative Board in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. So 24 hours have passed and Article 96 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, Section 6. The board did not meet, nor do we have an answer in relation to the violations of the Rules of Procedure, nor did I, as an authorised and head of the parliamentary group, get a list of votes. Since I know the president of the National Assembly will have some other obligations later, and I wanted to tell her this while she was here to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31198	You're right, I've scheduled a session of the Administrative Board, but as you know, the chairman of the Administrative Board is absent, we don't have a deputy. You'll get an answer next week and I hope you'll be happy. There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 99 requesting that article be deleted for one single reason, because I consider it to be pure demagogy. A student parliament can be organised in the third cycle of elementary school and high school. Parliament consists of two representatives of each class of school and three from each class in art. Parliament's work programme is part of the school's annual work programme. This article of the bill shows that illusion is an integral part of this law. How will the student parliament function when even your parliament of the Republic of Serbia does not work and when we know that this work is paid and that there are diaries. How will parliament function, will there be quorum, what will it do when the term of office of the parliament comes to an end, will it have a more liberal Rules of Procedure on working than our parliament, how will it maintain order at the student parliament's meetings? Will there be statements of MPs, punishments, etc.? Will there be a TV broadcast from the student parliament session? It will be, right? Great. You tried with the camps, Mr. Minister, on the example of Europe, and you tripped and you were embarrassed at it. Whether the school represents a state, so it should have parliament, so that it also has a government, that it has a mandate, that it has ministerial portfolios. This reminds me of all possible ingenuity and immatureness to the harmless children's game, and brainwashing is also being prepared in this way with beautifully placed demagogy. Many problems will arise in the new congregation. It'll take a lot of your mistakes you've made to correct. All our children have, our children are hungry for knowledge, they're just missing the student parliament. With a lot of shortcomings in the bill, this is a picture and an opportunity for your destructive action. As sad as the gathering makes me, the explanation makes me laugh. It's better that Mr. Minister doesn't know, but know, then abuse knowledge. I think you've greatly abused your knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31200	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31201	Ladies and gentlemen, we are against this kind of innovation. Not because they're novelty, so we're aprioriers against some new things, but we're against this kind of demagogy. You know, you young people, whose laws are already prescribed what their rights are, what their obligations are, each individual can exercise his rights, of course, he is obliged to respect his obligations. You're predicting a departmental community that exists now. We know what she's serving, what she needs to teach them, and then some student parliament, and there's this student parliament, we give meaning to these young people that they're supposed to be an institution, and it's about children who are commercially incompetent. That's why we're doing them a donkey favor. They need to know who they are, what they are, they need to know who their authority is, while their rights go, what they can achieve, and what they have to listen to, because that's the only way we're going to have citizens who can build a democratic system and a democratic society, not anarchy. In addition, this member is contrary to the Law on Secondary Education, because there, it seems to me, that only in the third and fourth years can be organised by the student parliament, and now I see that in the third cycle of primary school and in high school, it can be organised in all classes by the student parliament, so that it will have to be implemented in the law on secondary education on this issue, but this is not the only thing that is contrary to that law and I was thinking, and I have already told you that in the package and the laws should be adopted and given to discussion in parliament and to make appropriate changes, because perhaps what was missed in this law would find places in that basic law on primary or secondary school and then all would be much more content and more forward to what is possible because this law is really a framework, and we do not want to leave much of unsettled.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31202	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31203	Looks like the goal is to play with something that doesn't have any purpose. If we look at Article 98 from which a member of the school should also act as an organisation at the level of an institution or a different said school, it is said that students of a school are educated in the departmental community, and the authority and mode of work of the departmental community in the department is governed by the statutes of the school and by another act. We are now playing parliament to show young people that we are creating false sizes. What's this about? Who are we kidding, and what are we offering to the Serbian people here? We offer parliament to the students. What is this parliament? Instead of saying that what was traditional, what was present, with certain deviations, which were not good and should be said when it was not good that it was not good, and it was normal that after the position of the department community to stand the school community of students. Her work round and round can, according to what is written, be found there most of the things and were not controversial in the work, but why we now want to say -- you know, children, we have introduced Parliament to you, you are now qualified to solve social, state, parliamentary problems. Let's go back to tradition sometime, and this tradition really doesn't get in the way of concept. If he's in good faith and we want to follow, and he doesn't get into the concept, I don't think he's getting in the way at all, we have a student community, a school community of students. In what I've listed, in the section, it doesn't get in the way and it's not a problem. I think if there is one among us, Mrs Cerovic, I urge you to accept this with the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31204	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragica Radulović, Milos Lukic, Đuro Popovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Serbian Unity Party has tabled an amendment to Article 99. It's a bill of law. In Article 99(1), the words "can be organized" are replaced by the words "organised". The adoption of this amendment obliges each school to organise a student parliament to ensure more active participation of students in the educational process and in the work of the school’s professional bodies. It would allow better co-operation between students and teachers, as well as better informing students, so we suggest that Mr. Minister adopt the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31206	The word has the Minister of Education, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31207	I've seen that there are conflicting views here in Parliament's affairs. This stance advocates the imperative of parliament. We can't force anyone to establish something that they won't and that's why the government didn't accept this amendment. I personally don't mind being imperative, because I think it's important for the socialization of children, but to force children to do something that represents an obligation, I don't think it's right, and that's why we kept this middle solution, either to the left or to the right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31208	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee for Education has submitted to Article 102 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31209	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, on the draft law on the basis of an education and education system on Article 102 in front of the Social Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment, where I have suggested that the words "and from the rule in accordance with the special law" be deleted in this article's position 5. This member of the law regulates grade in primary and secondary schools, and I think it's okay, except for Article 5, which says that the final assessment is carried out according to the established criteria at the end of the first and second term, and that, in my opinion, would be the end of this position, that it is unnecessary, when it comes to governance, that this is done in accordance with a special law. It should also be deleted that the rule of law of students is assessed by a descriptive assessment, again in accordance with a special law, because it is the autonomous right of teachers to evaluate a student should not be conducted by a minister or prescribed by a special law or by some other regulation. The Legislative Committee claimed that the amendment was legally possible, and the Education Committee did not accept it, nor did the Government, with a reason, to maintain its acceptance as an unregulated substance in assessing the rule of law, which does not stand. I suggest that in the day of voting, you accept this amendment, regardless of what this extremely bad law, above all for generations to come, cannot be fixed and should not be accepted in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31210	Do any of the authorized promoters come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Bora Stanimirovic, authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31211	Here, counterpart Golub Rajic mainly pointed to the problem that arises, more because of this assessment of the rule. However, there is a problem here and in the fifth position, what I just pointed out, which was not within a particular member, which is an evaluation. The teacher's obligation is now that the student has to evaluate at least four times in one half-year. It would be fine if we adapted all other sources of knowledge to the emerging situation, although this reform would be complete. However, starting from almost nowhere in the law not to mention changing the methods of work, which is very important, without it there is no reform, if we are doing the same thing as we are doing so far, if we are doing the same thing as a hundred years ago, then there is no reform, and it turns out to be. So, we must legislate the change in the methods of work, and that means that there is a change in the sources of knowledge itself, and the sources of knowledge are different. A source of knowledge can be a teacher. So that's where we finally agree to change teachers. There's a chance. We're gonna have a hard time changing everything, 'cause there's still something else in them. We need to change the source of knowledge, it's a textbook. With textbooks like this, we can't grade a student four times in one midterm. No theoretical chances. We need to change the student, and he needs to understand that he's not working for the grade, that he's working for knowledge and that he's the active factor that's going to change. We need to change the teacher in the sense that the teacher will be just the coordinator of that job, and not the one who will only lecture from the department in front of 250 people, in the end, whether we can question it. You have colleges, you have schools, we're not talking about colleges right now. There are schools that have 38 students in the department. What's most important is we don't see anywhere to which extent we can reduce content, not just objects. Let's cut the content, cut the programs, but very energetic. There have been some studies that say that if 50% of the content were to be thrown out of certain subjects, students would have achieved much better results. I think it's a chance. If we don't, then there's nothing of this law. We are hit here, and fellow Golub Rajic has just intervened, when it comes to, that we allow, that the teacher is autonomous when it comes to the assessment of success, but when it comes to governance, then we are predicting some new act, some new law. What law? Who is it that needs to predict what grade a teacher will give? (President: Time.) I'm sorry, I'm done. Can we even share educational work in this process? Surely we can't and won't pass any special laws, but within all that we'll be able to determine the evaluation of the rule. It is difficult to separate from one another, or educational, from the educational work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31212	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The amendment was brought together by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31213	This Article 102, regardless of the amendment we have proposed, has not defined everything that should have been defined, and leaves, on the other hand, whether sublegal acts, new laws in that part, to regulate this part of the proposal, or Article 102. I suggested that Article 102 be changed and said: "The success of the students in the case and the rule is assessed." It's a score of normal, five, four, two, three, numerical with it and the rule of students, as it has been so far. The success of a regular student is evaluated twice during the education cycle. Minister, students can be evaluated five and six times. You can do a five-minute interrogation, you can give it to the control. What matters is that, as a minimum, at least twice, the student is orally evaluated in the course of school, with tests and everything else. When we don't have that part of contact between teachers and students, it's not good. Five and ten marks can be made with a five-minute trial. There's no problem. You go here for four grades, none of which, or how, etc. Next thing you know, there's a suggestion that there's no repeating. Second, to pass the correctional exam in June. I think what's in the practice of educators is this, I don't know when you're planning on finishing your school year, but if you're planning on finishing 20, then correctional exams like that can't be taken in June, except for the final class. This is where it should stand, if you do not make a new law, the correction exam is passed for the final classes, those ending early in the July and August exam deadline, and for the other students in the August exam period. After one bad experience, which Serbia had with four weak grades, I'm surprised the ministry didn't suggest that part, and I don't know if they considered it as a positive liquid that was for four, to go to the correctional exam, it was once in Serbia, and educational workers then realized it wasn't good. So now we're going back to ask one more time if something that wasn't good was good. And what's offered, no one repeats, it's something absurd. What's gonna happen to a student who never passed a little prom? (President: Time.) ) Will that student continue schooling and under what criteria, meaning, which does not pass a small graduation. I think you'll adjust at least this part, when it comes to the number of weak grades, to find a solution. I think he can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31214	The word has the mandated representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31215	Because of the time I just couldn't explain this member to the end, Article 102, but I'd just like the last attitude to be seen. We also claim in one article that schools have their autonomy, and that autonomy extends to programs, evaluations, and so on. However, this last position of Article 102 is rather vague and largely incurs the autonomy of primary and secondary schools, and it is precisely in that part of autonomy that is priority for founding. Let's say, the reality of the outcome standards. Look, with the outcome, no one has told us what the outcomes are. In determining tasks, we can, well done, see what the outcomes are now. Whether the ministry can only determine the outcomes, I would like it to be interpreted, means, standards on the reality of the outcome of education and student evaluation, as well as criteria- the way and procedure of assessing students from individual subjects and government and other issues of importance for the evaluation, according to a proposal from the competent centre, is prescribed by the minister. So we completely took away from the teachers what was basic, and that's his autonomy, that's his work, that's his program, that's the grades he can give, whether it's ruling or not. So, the entire education system is now being controlled by the Ministry. Every day, the minister makes a statement criticising the previous regime, as the ministry was centralised, that schools could only carry out certain issues, decisions made by the ministry, and here on one side, in five members, the ministry's competence on these issues is felt. So, he brings one thing, he brings the final exam program, he brings the program, you only have on one side everything the minister has to do with it. It's not centralism, and centralism was what the teacher could have graded himself based on the work of the students, his efforts, his activities, to follow the educational work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31216	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Bojana Aleksic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31217	Article 102, paragraph 8. The government suggests that all students who have insufficient grades in the case are not told how much, I suppose, is thought to be theoretically concerned and all cases, can be passed by correction within the June or August deadline. We think it's not good, that if it were allowed, then the student wouldn't have any ambition to sit around and study regularly over the year, talk about weaker students, not talking about classmates, but would just act like a student, probably run away from classes, probably not follow classes, and then just go to school in May, drum up campaigns, come out half in June, and half in August, share it and pass out the class exactly the same as the extraordinary student. We think it's very bad for children, first of all for those kids who don't have great ambitions, who prefer to play football, and that's why we think that the number of four, I mean the understatement, and at the end of the year, the best limit, and before that there were two exams, that's too little. Four, according to us, is the right number, so students who have up to four insufficient grades can go to juniper in June and August, and if they have more than four, they automatically repeat the class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31218	The word has the Minister of Education, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31219	I have to say that this was one of the large dilemmas of the Ministry, and I tried to explain to you what the objective of this legislative change was to be contained in the proposal. The aim is to achieve an objective evaluation that is slightly deformed by putting a limit on any number. I think from a pure pedagogical aspect, therefore, only pedagogically observed, this proposed solution is solid because it leads to it. However, indeed after long talks with, to say conditionally, I apologize, to the DSS experts and after the fact that they presented some of the things that can cause and conflict, we are very prepared and I will do it to accept this amendment, by making this solution, I now promise in advance, we will follow it, so we will see how it continues to develop and in which direction we will go, but there are some serious reasons to put some limit anyway and we accept the amendment, but not just because it is Bojanin and I have promised to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31220	We can determine that the minister has accepted, but the amendment will still be at the polls. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic to Article 103. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31221	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 103 concerning the objection of students and parents to their grades at school. Article 103 provides that the school’s director, based on an objection within three days, should cooperate with the psychological service, assesses whether an assessment has been justified or unwarranted. I asked this amendment to participate in the evaluation of the expert activity, the promoter, or the Government, so rejected my amendment, on the grounds that the amendment should not be accepted, because the involvement of the expert activity could affect the objectivity of the decision-making process. I believe that this is not the right argument, that the Government, or the Proposer, has misjudged them, because who can be more objective than the professors and teachers who hand over to that student and if some assessment is controversial and if any of the teachers are wrongly brought, or assessed some of his work or some of his exposure. I think it is necessary that this professional activity that has known this student for a long time can be far more objective, because it cannot happen that one student is very good or excellent than eight or nine objects, and that only one item is not relevant, especially if it is similar, or related items, such as mathematics, physics, chemistry and the like. The process should also include a school activity, meaning, a professional activity that knows the student personally and I do not think it can affect the objectivity of the decision, because it is still the school director who will cut it, that will be the decision and I believe that the proposer would have to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31222	On behalf of the authorised representatives, is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative, MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31223	I just want to point to this part here that doesn't make any sense. The right to object to grades during the school year, has a student, i.e. a parent or guardian. Within three days of the evaluation statement, and what does that mean? It means every grade is educated by the commission and it determines, it makes sense to me when an annual assessment or a half-yearly assessment is made that it has the right to object to an assessment, that the commission is then educated and that the commission is determined, but here it results in a student at every grade that is given, that a commission should be educated. I think it's out of my mind, I didn't put the amendment, I can put as much as you want, but I need the Assembly to throw out what doesn't make sense. Look for yourself, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31224	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31225	We really think that the amendment is in place and that it should be accepted, because when a complaint is submitted to the Director for dissatisfaction with the evaluation, it is understood that there have been, mainly, some disturbed relationships between teachers and students, that there is some animosity. We can't ignore the fact that that's possible. Here's the director in one independent position. Generally, experience suggests that such exams are approved, but it is also a fact that in these exams there is really little transitivity, mainly because of the fact that colleagues do not want to be resented by colleagues who gave a negative assessment, so there are students in one position that have some opportunities for parents to seek, allegedly, some justice or get caught for this possibility in law, so that there is no repeat of the class or that they do not go to the correctional exam and ask for that knowledge to be reviewed. We are really in a situation where our departments in schools are so numerous that students and don't get more than two grades in the middle of the semester or they can't show the right knowledge or the teacher wasn't able to fully look at the possibility of students and then this is justifiable. Since professional acts and thus participates in this exam, there are some other teachers who will examine the student rather than the teacher in question who gave the negative assessment, it would be good, because of the director himself and for some justice, if you want the professional activity to be included in this section in giving its opinion to the Director who should make a positive or negative decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31226	The word has the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31227	Two amendments to the same content were submitted. On this occasion, I will also respond to Petar Petrovic, Dragici Radulovic, Milos Lukic, Đuri Popovic and Adam Urosevic and Veroljub Arsic. The adoption of this amendment, as you suggested, leads to the principle of "cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you". Professional activity consists of teachers of the same class from school, and among them the one who gave the grade. Since he's the only one who knows the student, then he's going to say what that student is like, since he's already in conflict, you know what the transmission is like. That's why the idea of avoiding the principle of "cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you" and that's why it's another body.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31228	The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31229	It's not like "cadiya's suing you, cadia's judging you." There are other members of it, but it is known that the assessment is proposed by the teacher concerned, the active determines, and the teaching-science council makes the final decision. However, the pedagogical, psychologist, and principal who is mostly head of the teaching council, he may know the situation. We're not asking the teacher who gave the grade to be present, but it doesn't have to be, but to be representatives of the active or larger, someone professional. They're not the same people. This in so far as it's possible to form a special commission. What does that mean? As soon as you form a special commission, you have to consult the teacher again, the smoke again. We can't avoid people who work, who answer, especially when it comes to elementary or high school, anyway. So we won't even invite the teacher in question, but we'll call the representatives of the council and the representatives of the assets. The position of Article 103 states: "A student of primary and secondary school, his parent or guardian has the right to file an appeal under special law." What are the special laws? Give me one law on elementary school, one about high school, and there's no special law. Finally, to advertise Rules of Procedure, Rule 88. There are really many cards, and there are few MPs, so I would ask the service to pick up the cards with all the MPs who are away and then to establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31230	National MP Bora Stanimirovic, based on his Rules of Procedure, advertised Article 88. - a question of quorum. Article 88. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say: "The National Assembly decides in particular on every proposal to amend and supplement the proposed agenda. The new items entered into the agenda, on the basis of a proposal to supplement the agenda, to combine the debate or an emergency procedure proposal, shall be included in the agenda in the order of the promoters, unless the applicant has proposed a series of examinations, which the National Assembly declares without a search. On the agenda in general, the National Assembly decides without a search." Since this member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not treat the issue of quorum, MP Bora Stanimirovic has requested that the professional service of the Serbian Parliament's electronic computer system pick up cards that are located in MPs' parliamentary units that are not present. I would ask the professional service of the electronic computer centre to access the collection of cards and deliver them, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to the Secretary of the National Assembly. I would ask the MPs present in the hall to remain present, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm not asking for a quorum, please listen without anxiety. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Mr. Bora Stanimirovic asked that the professional service of the electronic computer centre collect cards from lawmakers who were not in the O.R., who left their cards when leaving the O.R. With 107 MPs present in the O.R., according to the record, we can continue our work. Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic, Dragica Radulovic, Milos Lukic, Đuro Popovic and Adam Urosevic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Does one of the authorized representatives answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Pal Shandor, MP Branislav Blažić and joint MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. (Pal Shandor, from the scene - withdrawing the amendment. ) National MP Pal Shandor withdraws his amendment. Anybody else answer for a word? The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31232	Perhaps the amendment would not occur, despite the fact that we Serbian radicals advocate not to check the students' later knowledge, but to verify what they achieved during their nine-year or eight-year education and for teachers and for students, that you write to us in an explanation at any time, which is why you have now been defined for the final exam and not for the entrance exam. What you've come to, given the importance of a final exam or a final exam, is that we can assess whether this is better or worse. In our opinion, as we can see it, it's absolutely the same, there's no difference, it's not a neck, it's a neck, it's a different name, and especially when in this law it didn't say which material would be the subject of the final exam. Whether it's nine-year-old material or it's going to be like the last quarter or the last three years, or six years. So far, there's been material in the sixth, seventh and eighth grade when it was an entrance exam, and now we have a final exam, but here you don't even say - even in accordance with a special law, it's going to be regulated. And if you say so, we can again expect amendments to the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, and here's another argument that we have made a mistake not to change it immediately and in these two laws after we have finished the debate under this law, to put one and another reason in the congregation procedure and the dabat. So when we get an explanation from the government. We generally have an explanation regarding the need to change the system and then when we come to certain provisions or a single chapter there is no motive or any research or some results that would point us to it. You probably have all this information, but the MPs don't have it, which would allow us to conduct a better discussion. It's a basic grudge. We don't think there should be a final exam here in our opinion, but if you do, we don't know what he's going to include.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31233	The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31234	It's wrong here for both of us. You see, it's a matter of criteria. First, we are not able to start with human resources, including local, geographical, material and other conditions, to have all great students in one school, the same knowledge as students at another school. This was the reason for the earlier introduction of classification and other exams. However, the ministry probably came from the fact that people should believe that they should work nine years now, or those who work three or four years in high school, then take the prom, the final part. Now, the question is, and that's where you should pay attention when you're taking that graduation. We are not talking about the programme, especially what the Ministry brings, but before, once upon a time, we had a very good practice that when we pass the final exam, or graduation, especially in high school, the Ministry sends its representatives who are following the prom, the work, and when people know that a representative of the Ministry is coming, which is true for both the student and the teacher and the director, they are far more serious about the exam, which is enough, provided that they are later enrolled in high school, i.e. to college, starting with success and this graduation, i.e. the successes achieved at the end of the basic i.e. High school. Later, they will work with their work. a selection to be performed in the first year of study or secondary school to show who is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31235	Mr. Gašo Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31236	This is about two different types of exams, a final and a final exam. What is the fundamental difference between them? The final exam is external. So he's organized out of the house unlike the home labor product. The final exam covers the entire generation. We currently have for this school year, for a high school entrance exam this school year many more people who have reported that they are taking the exam and have not reported the need to enroll in a four-year school. It means that children themselves feel the need to participate in the exam despite their desire not to enroll the school for which the exam is needed. We're happy about it. Because the more generation we embrace, the more we can say about that school. If, in one school, the entrance exam is passed by 50% of the students, which is the concept of the entrance exam, in which case 50% of the chances can be drawn from the quality of the school. If 70% of the students pass, the probability is 70%. If 100% lays, then we have insight into the state of the school. Therefore, the final exam is different from the final exam.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31237	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31238	It says here, after nine years, in fact everyone will take the final exam, or they won't. I still didn't get an answer from the minister about the situation if we take it as a basic assumption that a number of students don't pass the final exam, what you planned with them. Who will enroll in a two - year - old or a trained one, for we cannot count on 100 percent of the students to pass the final exam, if he is serious. That part of the job isn't regulated anywhere in the law. What about those students? In some of the solutions of other countries, that's different and I read it a little while ago, but we don't have it here. On the other hand, it is said that the final exam will achieve a high degree of knowledge. I think the final exam will definitely, because the final exam is one part of the knowledge check. For this final exam, whether we like it or not, one degree of speedy preparation must be the renewal, in addition to regular work. Take, say, a college exam, so you have a year-round follow-up, and at the end of the day when you're taking it, you still have a little bit to rebuild. The students can't come, so what I learned in the fifth grade and found there and I remember it and remember it. It's not like that. Things are forgotten, and then they need to be restored. So the final exam means a kind of reception, in my opinion, exam, with not being individual, is not just physics, mathematics, I don't know what's going to be overlooked there. All populations are covered. Some thinking is now that for the entrance exam, as it is now, down to zero, and to zero, because the number of points on the entrance exam is low, maybe I can pass and maybe I can do the tasks to pass. If we want quality, let's be realistic, quality for a secondary vocational education, I don't speak, let's call school in business or three-year-old, whatever you want. The criteria must be lower. This means they should also be enabled with a lower standard of general knowledge, so that it can be entered. I don't think the final exam, hello, will be very soon, so we'll see how much they're going to pass, and we'll see how much that final exam is going to take, because here we've had this part being placed by 50% or 60% of the students who have both quality and knowledge, and the rest were enrolled based on the success of primary school. If you're able to capture the population 100%, to pass, then we're a question, and I don't believe in that kind of work. The basics should all end, and then there's no quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31239	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does he want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31240	We had the opportunity to get into college. I think with this, and especially what I've heard about the general prom having to go to another school, if that's the case, and if she stays with the Educational Committee. I think it's depriving one right to enroll one population, one part. Why can't an expert graduate from medical school be enrolled in medical school. (Gasho Knezevic, from the city: Yes. I can't see here, if you can, then there's nothing to discuss further. I took an example, but up here, it says it can't go above. Let the Assembly find that with a professional graduation you can enroll in the appropriate university. Then I have nothing to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31241	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 111, the same text was submitted by MP Neda Arneric and joint MPs Bratislav Djuric and Marin Kresic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 112s were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Golub Rajic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Radojko Petric, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31242	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SPS, along with fellow Member Golub Rajic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 112. A bill of this law. This article prescribes conditions that must be met by a teacher, an educator and an expert associate in order to be admitted into a working relationship in an educational and educational institution. Among other things, in point 3 paragraph 1 is prescribed as the condition of establishing a working relationship that a candidate, I quote, is not convicted by a judicial verdict for a criminal offence for which an unconditional sentence of imprisonment has been imposed for at least six months or has not been convicted of a criminal offence against dignity of personality and morals. The SPS MPs support the principle that people should work in educational and educational institutions. We support the proposed condition that educational - educational institutions should not receive candidates who have been convicted by a judicial verdict of criminality against dignity and morals, regardless of whether the sentence is unconditional for up to six or over six months. However, we believe that too rigorous a measure that a candidate cannot be admitted to a working relationship in an educational - educational institution if convicted by a judicial verdict for any criminal offence for an unconditional sentence of more than six months. Take, for example, a professor who's been punished for a car accident for six and a half months or seven and a half months in prison. Is this supposed to be almost a living condition that he can't work as a professor? I don't mean here the high school professor who teaches the subject - traffic safety, so let's just say, that's exactly what's specific about his profession, his profession and the rest. We're talking about teachers at all. We have proposed that an amendment be made and that a working relationship in an educational educational institution cannot be accepted by a teacher, an educator or an expert associate if he is sentenced to a prison for a criminal offence against the dignity of a person and morale, regardless of the length of the sentence, and for other crimes for over six months and for crimes that make them morally unfit for working in education and education. We received a response from the government and said it took the view that the amendment should not be accepted, because, in their opinion, the amendment is incorrect so that it could be applied in practice. The government's position is inconclusive. If an amendment is accepted, it is understood that the minister would be obliged to prescribe acts that are criminal acts, so that they know in advance what makes the professor morally unfit for working in education, if he has committed a criminal offence, and why he has been punished for more than six months in prison. We're going to be in an absurd situation, let's say for traffic, so he can never work as a teacher or a teacher in education again. I think the reasons are quite convincing for the amendment to be accepted, and it implies that the minister has prescribed acts that make them inadequate, or morally inadequate for working in education if someone has been punished for more than six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31243	Thank you. Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31244	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS Parliament Club would support this amendment. We had a similar amendment, and I think it was passed by the Law on Judges, in meeting the conditions of judges to perform that high state function. Now we don't see why, really, we can't tell with teachers how it's written with the amendment. I think it's even more accurate than it was given in the bill. I'd like to remind you of an unsettling event that almost happened. Mr. Vlahovic's wife, who is head of the school, had a car accident. The woman was dead at the scene. Was there a speeding outage? No, that's what the court will determine. Imagine six months in prison and he can no longer be a school principal or a teacher. You have to take care of what it is, and because of a lot of things a man can go to jail for today. In justice, God can go to jail today. There are people around prisons today as long as you want, who don't even know why they're there. I guess they'll find out someday, but here when it comes to education, we really need to potentiate this dignity of personality and morality, only those crimes, and for the rest of us don't let people make money for their bread and we need a little more width in accepting this amendment. I think there have been a lot of people who have actually been in prison in the last few months or who will be in any way convicted of any crimes in a court dispute, which will later be proven not to have been and have not been the perpetrators, and we will take bread out of their hands, and especially in a country like this where it is manipulated by the judiciary and the police, anything is possible. You can also see around this lustration as far as we're concerned. I hope we haven't gotten to the point that this is really going to happen, because I just can't believe we're ever going to form that lustration committee here. We can't have one broadcasting advice to form, let alone one commission that, based on what BIA's been collecting and what anyone said in the barbershop, at the market about someone, is to be the reason for the lustration of people, only if you don't do it this way, knowing about some cases, again to carry out lustration in education, but I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31245	The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31246	I ask that this amendment be accepted. A colleague, Petric, and others, have made it clear and reasoned that these are the reasons for losing a job. We have a criminal code, it's specifically defined and imagine that even in other professions, if convicted for six months, he can't do a job. So that goes for doctors, that goes for judges. The judge has been adopted, but why in the field of education? It's not about some pedophile proclivities, it's not about some immoral ones, etc., and there are time limits. You can't convict someone for life. In the first year of service, he committed some kind of banal offense, let's say even moral, which is why he's been punished for six months and can never do that job in his life. That's terrible stuff. It's harder to condemn society than what he did. So that's one strong argument. It's not just about enlightenment, because we heard a little before and a traffic accident and something quite third could be, to be convicted. I don't believe this is about lustration, lustration is something else. It wasn't meant to be a lustration here, but it's very difficult for society to condemn someone at the beginning of its career because he's gone for six months because of some banal offense, some mistake, to hit a man or anything, that he can't work on that profession for 40 years, and so I ask the government representatives to accept this amendment, because we've explained it quite enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31247	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are approaching the end of the debate of the law in particular and I would take this opportunity, because on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group I have submitted an amendment to Article 113, but I no longer have the amendment, to say my final court, which also arises from the presentation of all our MPs, that this is a very bad legal project, written by Sorosa, on the order of so-called. The European advisers of the Ministry, the Minister himself, the Government, and this is a law which, in our opinion, and we have said a lot in favour of this argument here, will reverse our education system and, above all, it is the most important for us Serbian radicals, completely abolish our national identity and it will be implemented throughout the course of education. This amendment treats a newly established category, which is mentioned at the very beginning of the law, and we ask that this attitude be erased or at least as it is in the educational sense for those persons only possible to rephrase. Namely, Minister, you've introduced one category - the assistant teacher. This is a co-worker in the course so far, because the government gave it, i.e. you in line at point 10, because a colleague, Slobodan Janjic, had an amendment. It's impossible to introduce a category of assistant teacher. First of all, someone should explain to us, first of all, what you, what someone does, whether they participate in the preparation, whether they conduct teaching, what helps, whether it evaluates and what their role is, because we know who we don't do in enlightening what the role of co-workers is in teaching. This is his professional qualification and fourth-degree education for classmates and there are teachers who teach preschool children in preschool education programmes, means teachers, which are actually teachers of classroom classes, as well as teachers of individual classes, i.e. teachers or teachers of individual classes. It is absolutely unacceptable that people who have acquired the qualification of associates in the fourth degree of education, and as far as I remember that fourth degree and such a name for that interest was introduced by the introduction of the Shuvar programme of targeted education, at least in Kragujevac there were such departments, and as far as I heard from colleagues in Nis and Piroth, etc. Now we degrade these people, who usually work with a fourth degree education in education and give them a call - assistant teachers, and in fact they're co-workers in the follow-up. That's why I think you need to accept this amendment, because you, in your explanation, or government, say at point 10, which is usually the current co-workers in the follow-up. Why aren't the co-workers so far, why don't they stay that way, but they're assistant teachers, and you don't talk about what they're doing, what they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31249	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, with corrections, were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31250	By amendment to Article 114, I suggested that the point be replaced by a comma and that the text should be added as follows: "after which it ceases to be a trainee". The basic text says, "The intern has the right to pass the license after a year's work." Nothing more logical than this sequel, which I have proposed by amendment, and the Government in its explanation of why the amendment has not been accepted - the amendment should not be accepted because the duration of the traineeship has been established by Article 114(2). It's a bill of law. That's exactly what I suggested. The government only lacks the reason to write -- the amendment is not accepted because it was sent from the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. With this amendment, Mr. Minister, I'm speaking to you, it doesn't touch at all, as you can see, in the essence of the law. It's only one legal order of this article 114, and it's clearly what you wanted to say, and I'm just an amendment to that. The fact that you didn't accept, that the government didn't accept this amendment, only talks about how you don't really care about what the law looks like, you only care about those who gave you to prescribe their laws, you don't care about teachers, you don't care about students. I'm confirming that with one example. You are asked, ministers, Serbian language teachers -- why yesterday in Belgrade elementary schools, in the morning, did not teach Serbian, it must be compensated, and another four or five days by the end of the school year, and from the ministry, they say, invited all teachers of Serbian language to come to the school "Drinka Pavlovic" in Belgrade, there were people from Obrenovac, Lazarec, from the territory of all Belgrade. They were supposed to find out something about passing the entrance exam, they gathered there in that heat, someone from the ministry came over, gave them a piece of paper, on which there's no signature or stamp, where it says half a point, one point, this assignment, that task. They don't understand anything, and they probably don't know who brought it to them, but the bottom line is that they weren't in Serbian class yesterday, neither the unsuspecting nor the disciples, and they're wondering when you're going to make it up to them. I'm told by a group of teachers - ask, please, Minister, whether he is taking care of us, whether in his story, he is having a public debate, whether he will think of it before the law is passed, that he really listens to educational workers, who, for the fifth time, do not accept this law and will not apply it in practice, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31251	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The amendment was brought together by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Vladimir Garcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31252	That's about the next three amendments. I'm going to take the opportunity to suggest that a license is a transferable invention, and I don't know where exactly, because I didn't see it written and I don't know who it serves. What's for sure, we had to pass a professional exam in education after a year, and before that was up to five years, he could work in education without a professional exam and that deadline was five years of work, that he had to pass. So that part was changing, the upper limit was one minute to five years. Now it's one year and then she has to pass in one year, she gets the right, and she has to pass the expert exam. Now if laying it is to call it a license now, call it whatever you want, that and if then it's the professional training that allows and if it's the equipment of the school, I'd like to now have the condition established here and if we stick to the normative, no matter what they are, maybe sometimes they're superfluous, they might need to be corrected in some health school commissions. We've been considering removing and changing the norms to adapt the situation and the weather. That part will have to be eliminated, and if you think it's enough to get people to come over and tell it, like it was the other day about the admission exams, so the one who's supposed to write a commission member didn't arrive in two hours, and people are waiting. Enlighteners are quite serious people and a lot of serious professions, regardless of the anomalies that exist, as they exist in society. I don't think the license had any need to be introduced, and if it was conditioned, if it was a man's obligation and it was automatically extended if a man went to the expert exams, it made it possible to improve professionally, then it's something else. However, in one segment there is something else. I'm not sure, I have a lot of experience in education, and now I'm in education, you can license as much as you want, but if he comes into education to do someone who doesn't like their profession and doesn't like youth, or children, they're free of licenses and they're free of all that. There's nothing without it, unless someone has their natural talent for that kind of work. We can't do that in education until we've achieved that to secure the economic situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31253	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Prof. Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31254	The problem of the license eventually arises more, because it goes more specifically, however, we had, I don't see from this law what this license will cover. Will it be possible to include that professional teaching work that is needed for the work of a teacher, especially knowing that many students, graduates, come from various teaching and other universities and participate in the teaching process. In their education, they do not have pedagogical - psychological - methodical education. It's much harder for them to get involved in the process and they can know the profession, but they don't know how to pass it on to the kids. I think that's the problem. I don't think a license will do that. We cannot create one universal license, a universal licensing program that will apply to all educational workers and to those who have passed that education process that I was talking about earlier, those who have not heard, to some of the subjects that are and how important to the educational process. Not only that, what particularly hits here is the problem that, even now in the departments of the ministry, not in the ministry, but in people who need to do some jobs, to bring people together for various reasons, to listen to some professional lectures, etc., threatens only -- you won't get a license. It's like a terrible judgment now. A license is a terrible court for educators. That's what's bothering you. We're not saying it's lustration, but she's going to sort of, it's enough that you're threatening someone most of the time. I claim, and practice will show, that because of this form of licenseing, there will be more and more negative selections at teacher and similar universities, where professors prepare for a particular profession. No one will constantly threaten him with a finger, a license -- either you will work, or you will lose your license, to come into education to work for 250 euros. So we now have a negative selection. There's nothing worse for one society than when your weakest ones come to school and when the weakest people work in education, where you hit especially in elementary school and high school, where you hit the foundations of future generations and future states. So these are the weak sides of the license that will certainly be misused, and when we talk about this law, that it is not practically complete, here is the license that in some way causes a lot of revolt and a lot of resistance in education.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31255	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. Parliamentarians Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone picking up? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Milojevic submitted to Article 115 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, Natasha Milojevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31256	This is an amendment relating to the final position of Article 115. I don't remember the government not accepting it, I think it's accepted, yes, that's why I came out to say it. The Committee voted in favour, and as far as I know, the Legislative Committee said that the amendment is legally possible, so that the amendment has all the conditions to become an integral part of the law. It confirms Minister Knezevic that the amendment has been accepted, otherwise, to tell my colleagues what it is. Namely, our amendment regulates the power of the minister when it comes to the content and form of the licence, and it reads: "The Minister prescribes the content and manner of keeping the register as well as the form of the licence", which was agreed by the committees and the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31257	The word has been made by the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31258	The government in writing is not, it will later be and it is an accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31259	The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to Article 115. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31260	Mr. Minister, you can't get any sense of yourself, here, for the third day we've been trying to tell you that this law will be nothing, you won't be a minister when the time comes for the application of this law, the elections are on the verge, they'll be in September or October and we're wasting our time here, we could have spent this time to make something better for the citizens, for example, life. I asked with my amendment that no agencies, no professional development centre should issue certificates to educators, so that after the abuse of that, and that the centre be the culprit, and that the minister and the ministry remain protected, when there is a responsibility that someone is forbidden to work in education because of someone else's whim, to lose the status of teachers or teachers, and you in all ministries, and so on in your ministry, you take it out in front of the minister of some commission, and now it's called a professional development centre here. It will be the culprits who will abuse the profession of people, make it impossible for them to deal with the work they've been trained for 20 years, and tomorrow some of your centers or some commission to say - you don't have a license, you can't be a lecturer or an educator, and with what right? If he was preparing, taking exams, getting knowledge of his call, now some party committee of yours will, and that will be so, because with everything you've done so far, it was all about your execution of party orders, so these people will also be disproved about their work. Nor will we be modeled by someone you'll promote and promoted in two and a half years, our children will be role models like Dr. Vojislav Seselj, heroes like Mr. Sljivancan, who you said you found the culprits, and you haven't amnested him not to be persecuted by various white-world killers, and if you found the culprits for that shooting, that was the place of the Ovcar, for which you've accused him, then you had to say - we're protecting that citizen, because we have the guilty in prison and the murderers, and international criminals are still looking for him. The theme will be very quickly awkward for you and I believe that when that topic comes to the agenda, every moment approaches, that you won't be here in the O.R., because you were always strong only when you were in the crowd and your mark was a pile, throw and insult. Come out for a pay phone and tell me what you have. You don't know what the subject is. The theme is that you're leaving power, but you're not informed that you've come down.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31261	Since no one is reporting on this amendment, just to realize that the amendment to the 115th National MP, Natasha Milojevic, after the minister accepted, became an integral part of the law. This would end the morning's work, continue at 15.00 hours, and by the end of the debate there are 37 amendments left, and the first speaker will be on behalf of the applicants for the amendments submitted to Article 116, MP Branislav Ivkovic and a group of MPs. We can be at 3 p.m. to complete today's work on this law and continue our activities on the established agenda. Thank you. [[After break – 15,50]] We can start work in the afternoon. I would ask the MPs to determine the quorum, so we can see if we have the conditions to work. We have a quorum to work with. National MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic together proposed that members of 116 to 120 be deleted. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 116 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Milojevic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is one of the promoters answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Nesovic and Rade Bajic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 117th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Ruzic and Rajko Baralic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31263	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, in front of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment proposing that the school board as one body does not allow itself the right not to answer by appeal to anyone. Let's look at a practical example: an unsatisfactory worker complains to the school board about the director's decision. Is the school board really in the position of director, in office of whom or the school board is in office, whether that man can pay taxes tomorrow and everything that goes with the lawsuit, conduct litigation etc. Perhaps, by decision of the school board, as a school management body, you can correct the director's failure. I don't think there's any reason to argue about it, to be the school board's obligation to make a decision, whether it's positive or negative, because if we said that the school board is made up of both parents and representatives of the social environment and workers, I think it can be accepted not to disturb the law, and yet it would create little security. I don't want to be too long, but it's up to you to define yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31264	Are any of the other authorised promoters answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlasimir Budimovic. However, MP Vlasimir Budimovic withdrew the amendment to Article 124. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to Article 124. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31265	Article 124 regulates the possibility of a teacher heading for work abroad. We ask our amendment to point 3 which reads: "the teacher refers to work abroad for a year, with the possibility of extensions" for a period of four years. We consider this more appropriate, given some continuity, experience in the work and all that goes in favor of making this work as high as possible. They're teachers who need to teach, especially our diaspora. It wouldn't be good if that deadline was this short. These are the reasons why we have referred this amendment. We think the argument is that this period is more appropriate for something like this, especially if it's meant to be class teachers, so it takes a generation to perform. It is now three years old, instead of a four-year period of teaching, but we went towards it because the concept of our amendments is in this direction not to change the length of the duration of basic education. It's up to the minister to decide if the amendment is in place. In any case, I don't think it's thought enough when this time period is limited to a year, because one school year is a very small period for a teacher to get to know these children and working conditions and give something more in professional and pedagogical work to children who will be a teacher.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31266	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Education has submitted to Article 126 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragica Radulovic, Milos Lukic, Đuro Popovic and Adam Urosevic submitted together to Article 126. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Are any of the authorised representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I ask you for a little silence so that we can continue to work, given that only 20 amendments remain to be discussed by the end of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31267	As we have fought since the beginning of this law for the rights of collective decision-making, collective approach... (Glass from the O.R.: Self-Government.) Is it self - control? None of us will escape from the workers, therefore neither will you, my friend. The exception is with Milojevic, something that was adopted, but he's running away from mentioning the collective credentials. Daragi comrades will not decentralisation, we will not have the Serbian government rule in this way. We want Serbia to be ruled by a collective agreement that is everywhere in Europe. There are general laws that apply. Give us back the right to collective bargaining. Why does it bother to be accepted here, if it's said that vacations are regulated by law and collective agreement? Well, I guess the law will know what to regulate, that vacations must be held during summer break means that when students are on vacation that educational workers are on vacation, then they should use their vacation. But will it be 18 days, whether 20 days, whether 25 or 30 must be regulated by a collective agreement. We keep running away from it. Someone will have to change that, someone has to accept the reality in Serbia, that there is a working class, that there are 100,000 employees and that they want to decide their fate alongside the government. It's not allowed here to allow workers to seem like anything they could decide on. If we consider that 106,000 employees are the most qualified structure in one profession or profession, then I think it needs to be given confidence in that part, that they have the right to collective contracts and everything that comes out of them. But it is your right to decide and the right of workers will be to fight for what needs to be fought for, which means that education is decentralised, to return to basic institutions and thus ensure the functioning of schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31268	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31269	Madam Chairman, I have to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it happens all the time that we have amendments by the board, this time by the parent board, and as far as I'm aware of the Rules of Procedure, it's an impossible situation. Because Article 142 makes it clear who submits the amendments. Article 140 that the legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to consider amendments before the meeting of the National Assembly and Article 144 only in the course of the vote in particular, not during the debate, but in the course of the vote in the particulars of the amendment may be submitted by the legislator, the committees responsible, or the Government, only if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of another amendment. This is not the situation, and, of course, to remind you of Article 140(4) that there is a possibility that if the National Assembly adopts several amendments, it may stop by adopting the draft law in general and ask the Legislative Committee to carry out a legal and technical redistribution of the text of the bill in collaboration with the legislator. I really don't know what kind of new practice we've adopted, so if you think that's the way to do it, then change the Rules of Procedure so that we know that committees can do it. As some committee uses it, some don't use it, and as far as I see it, it's against the Rules of Procedure, and I want to point to the violation of Articles 144 and 140. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31270	I'm obliged to give an answer. You have interpreted one provision of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure, which you have stated, giving the committee the right to, in the course of the vote in particular, be able, because of the acceptance of another amendment, to submit a second amendment during the debate. However, you know, when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it wouldn't be a bad idea to keep in mind the text of the entire Rules of Procedure. Do you understand? I cannot use individual provisions beyond the context of the entire Rules of Procedure, because Article 135, please listen to what he says, he says clearly - if the competent committees and the Government propose the adoption of the law in principle, they are obliged to indicate whether the law is accepted in general or with amendments proposed in the form of an amendment. So the competent committees and the government have the right to propose amendments. If you are not satisfied with my response, we can refer the request to the Administrative Committee again. All right, you accept. Here you go, second violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31271	Madam Chairman, I think I came out with respect for this pay phone and I have addressed you in a way that does not offend the dignity of the National Assembly. Your way of treating me especially and according to many colleagues here in the National Assembly is such that it really raises the dignity of the National Assembly and that is why I am going out to advertise Article 97 and to warn you that I expect you not to hold a sermon. I've listened well, you didn't have to talk to me like that, and let me tell you that in the future I won't tolerate it, no matter how much it cost me, then I'll talk to you the same way, and you know that I can. So you can't handle me and I've been trying here for days to really do what we like and then you come here and act like you're my teacher. You're not my teacher. You are the chairman of the National Assembly. Here, and I told you this, it seems to me, in the mildest possible way possible, and I asked you nicely and warned you -- don't speak to me or any of your colleagues here in the National Assembly in the future. We just don't deserve it from your side.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31272	Dear colleagues, MPs, Gordana Pop-Lazic, there is no such thing as MPs or chairmanship in the Rules of Procedure. I also don't think that I've been absolutely offensive or brazen to you, ever, although I've experienced a thousand insults from you, I've never used the right to insult you and I'm asking you to respect it, and if you don't like it, I often don't like your tone, and there's taste, and it doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. I hope we understand each other. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31273	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the situation is tense, the end is near, we're probably tired, but when it comes to Article 128(1), it's good -- school employees usually use vacations during school vacations. However, there is no other view that limits the duration of the vacation as well as the rest of the national authorities. That's never been before, and there's a million reasons for that. Labour technology in the educational process is different from in other state bodies. Secondly, for example, take one beginner, a professor, who could use only 18 days of rest according to this other attitude. What would he do? First, it is known how long it is necessary to prepare the course, prepare the new school year, prepare the annual work programme, prepare teachers, etc. These are mostly the reasons and the jobs of working with the children are more specific than the work of the state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31274	National MP Natasa Milojevic submitted to the 131st amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 138 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pal Shandor. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does he want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31275	Dear colleagues, Mr. Popov convinced me it would be a good idea to withdraw the amendment and I'll do it. My idea was that one person would not pass two professional exams, namely not to pass a professional exam for an educator and for an expert exam, what is called here, for working in the authorities of the state administration. Let me say one sentence, and that's why I came out, it's badly formulated this attitude 2, it's very difficult to understand. I'd like to ask you in the technical paper, which is something like this, so it can be an educational inspector, a person with a higher education, and then it says, with a professional examination in the field of education, or a license, because when he has a license, he has a passed exam. So, a license for a teacher, teacher or professional associate and now comes here, and at least five years of work in the field of education and education, as well as a professional exam for working in the authorities of the state administration. Then it's clear what the legislator meant to say. He wanted to say, he could be an educational worker who has a professional exam, or a license for a teacher, an educator and an expert associate, at least five years of working training and should have a professional exam for working in the authorities of the state administration. They repeat another formulation if you are inclined to be technically regulated and I think it is possible that the law would be simply legible, meaning a person with a high standing, a professional examination in the field of education, i.e. a license for a teacher, an educator or an expert associate with at least five years of employment in the field of education and education, as well as a professional exam for working in the authorities of the state administration. So I'm withdrawing this amendment of mine if it's readjusted properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31276	National MP Pal Shandor withdrew the amendment to Article 138. National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic together submitted to the 140th amendment. National MP Nenad Lemajic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group, withdrew the amendment to Article 140. National MP Natasa Milojevic submitted to Article 143 of the amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. She's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 143 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic submitted. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31277	In this amendment, it has been tried to find something like a solution using other people's experiences, so let's see what the state is obliged to finance, and based on what the state is obliged to finance in education is also a result of the Republic's budget and results in a commitment, and then the conclusion of an agreement on financing institutions, i.e. schools. We don't have any elements embedded now in education, we don't have one from before, without the factor of the department as a whole and the number of workers per department, depending on the number of classes. But when it comes to material costs, we have one part fixed, and the other part, when it's tied up, heating, electricity, and what about everything that comes out of those obligations. Looking at this experience, looking at what is necessary, the school to finance, I listed what should be done next to wages, contributions, in addition to investment maintenance, school equipment, and when it comes to student homes, material costs. Furthermore, the costs of the workers in accordance with the collective contract, the fees and the costs of the mandatory trip, the means of preparation and the performance of the graduation and final exams. We don't have it anywhere. The proms are done, the material is charged by the students, if it's material that's a consumable, if you don't have the money, so we'll get into a situation, immediately attack the Ministry or the school. Further, funds for the development of teaching technology, funds for school television, radio and the Internet. If he wants you to connect to the Internet, the intensity is, from which funds will be paid. This has to be predicted. Well, international meetings, funds for education abroad, and this applies to our abroad, funds for innovation, when it comes to students, etc. It is normal for me to understand that the Serbian Government will not accept it, and probably not accept it in another meeting, because these are obligations, where every institution, or school, can be called and said, please, the criteria are these, and there are still these criteria that should have come. The criteria are for you and the Serbian government to finance education or municipalities in its work in municipalities, they should finance education. Without clear criteria, if you only have these two or three criteria, the class and the number of students, that's not enough, because the life of the school isn't just that. As a result of this reference to this opportunity, there is no economic possibility for the Government to accept, but we need to develop the criteria correctly in the education law, what is it that needs to be financed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31278	National MP Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31279	In this amendment that my colleague explained, there is one reason why the Government cannot accept it in the previous one, which I did not explain and I will not now use the pay phone, is clearly why this one cannot be accepted, and that is to make the calculation of salaries and other remunerations and receipts in accordance with the collective contract. Since I've already been, I think more than ten times going out for this pay phone on the same occasion, and in order not to bother you and everyone else, at the end of the debate, I'm going to make one summary of all the arguments that went from beginning to end, and when it comes to amendments to my parliamentary group. I would also ask that, when the argument is interpreted and why the amendment of my colleague Garčević is rejected, so that it should be borne in mind that the concept for which we stand is the concept of collective agreements that are applied in accordance with the Labour Act. This concept will in no way violate the reform tone of the overall law on education and education, and I guess we'll come across an understanding of this, of what, obviously and too insistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31280	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vlasimir Budimovic. National MP Natasa Milojevic submitted an amendment, with a correction, to article 144, making the amendment the same as the amendment of MP Vlasimir Budimovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 144th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 145 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31281	The Serbian Radical Party MP group proposes this amendment to delete the words "teacher parents" in article 145, because it is incompatible and unacceptable that in something called mandatory and free, even when it comes to providing conditions for higher standards in education institutions, additional funding is provided by the participation of students' parents. Of course, there are other reasons. Probably the promoter didn't even notice that he made a logical mistake, because in this law the institution is a kindergarten, elementary and high school, and the kindergarten still doesn't have students but has children who attend it, so that the parents can't be parents of children who are in kindergarten. Of course, these are some mental problems, which will surely heal over time. It is not good and must not stand in the area where the state guarantees, where the state plans in its budget funds, where it obliges local self-government to plan funds in its budget, is not good in one area, where the state bears full responsibility, to prescribe the possibility for parents to support the school by participating in their funds. I would only point to one problem of a complete member, which he points to the security of a higher standard of education. The state has an obligation to provide the necessary minimum education in Piroth, in a village and in downtown Belgrade and the state is obliged to guarantee the same level of knowledge and approximately the same level of standards of conditions in which the work of education and education is carried out. Practice has shown that students’ parents have had a considerable impact on the outcome of schooling results, since some children thus provided good grades, passability, and ignorance, and always certain ignorance. In addition, it should be kept in mind that there are children who must be equal and, of course, care must be taken that all parents are not in the same material capacity and there should not be room for one with little better opportunities to buy knowledge and anything else that goes along with it. That is why we propose that this amendment be adopted, because in this way some minimum is maintained.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31282	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31283	We've come to what seems to be a key amendment that treats what we're most sensitive to, and that's money. Where's the money and if we have the money for everything the law prescribes? It is obvious that we do not have and here is proof that I will read it to you, it is the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" of 17 September 2002 - based on the Law on High School Regulations on the completion of the rules on the near conditions regarding space, equipment and teaching means for the implementation of plans and programmes of education and training for professional subjects in three years and four years in a professional school in the field of machinery and metal processing. For example, you have 53 items for the teaching subject of machine elements and structures, various tools, images, schemes, slides, graphs. Samples, models, models, you have a total of 44 items and all that needs to buy that local self-government so the school can work. So that's what we need in order for one institution to meet the basic working conditions. I doubt any school has this. If I were to read to you what tools these are, I don't believe it would mean much to you, but here's to show you how ambitious it is by the government, who brings these regulations, realizes that she doesn't have the money for it, aware that local self-government also doesn't have the money for it, and above all, her obligation is under the Law on Fundamental School and the Law on Local Self-Government, so I ask you what school, like this, will meet the conditions for working under this latest law. I'm convinced neither will. First, it costs a lot, and if money is found, I wonder where it's going to be, and then why so much writing and all these tools, materials, schemes, and I don't know what. Only one scheme costs 6,000 dinars, that's what I asked myself, and for a school subject I can't assess what money is and whether there's some deadline to do it, but the rulebook would have to take into account economic possibilities, the financial opportunities of local self-government. So, it's just one proof of how, when we talk about who provides funds to finance the activity of primary and secondary schools, we say it's a territorial unit, a republic and an autonomous province and that it's a local self-government and that, of course, we rely here on donations, sponsorship and participation of parents of children, but if we tell the participation of parents of children whether we mean the same thing, whether we mean sponsorship or donation. Obviously not, because it's particularly termological here, or parents participate with some funding in education that we say is free of charge. I think this is different after all. It seems to me that we have already crossed over to such a thing by amending and supplementing the Law on Middle Education and there has already been some possibility of enrolling in school the amount of funds that parents should pay. So, to define ourselves declared either free or not free or limited for free, the rest must be paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31284	The word came from the minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31285	The Government accepts the amendment to Article 145. So, we're erasing "teacher parent."
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31286	I find that the Government's representative has accepted the amendment to Article 145. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Branko Ruzic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 147th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zivodarka Dacin and Marko Culibrk. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 148th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Milan Jankovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to Article 149. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the head of J.I. determines and defines the criminal provisions of this law and we can agree with the article. 146, 147, 148, and the levels of penalties defined by these members, and perhaps in Article 146 of this sentence, especially for institutions, could be higher, but Article 149 at which the Serbian Radical Party has submitted its amendment and we insist that this member be deleted for reasons that the Serbian Radical Party insists that the centres should not be in this law, or this amendment to Article 149, constitutes a logical trail of amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, which the government has not accepted. I suppose even the MPs of the congregation will not accept the amendments submitted for the purpose of eradicating, from laws, centres, so that they lose the sense of eradicating this article 149. The government has in its argument - why does not accept this amendment, prescribed an explanation that goes with Article 51, where they say the amendment should not be accepted because the functioning of the education and education system must be ensured. We are still standing at the point that the introduction of centres into the education system will not speed up and improve the functioning of education and education systems. We believe, we argue, and time will show that we were right, that it would be just a waste of money, a demand for additional funding for some parallel institutions of the system, some bodies that absolutely do not need and cannot exist in the education system. In my amendment, to Article 18, which we insisted and asked for centres to be deleted, when I explained the amendment, I said who would be all employed in those centres, who would come to the budget, to the state manger, for which reasons the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, will finance Serbia. I'm undermining again, I don't expect this amendment to be accepted, but I think time will prove that we were right about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31288	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, authorised representative, i.e. Deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31289	When we criticised Article 27 and submitted an amendment that also caused this amendment to Article 149, because we do not think this situation should be predicted at all. If we've already created a center, which is a professional body and which should work on the minister's initiative, we should not at all allow it to go deaf about it, especially if it's a specific body of state administration, at least that's how it's imagined here. He's on a budget manger, he's got professionals. That would be the same to you, Minister, as if someone in your department at the Ministry told you -- I won't do it, so sit down and do it yourself. Then why do you have a ministry and why do you have people in the ministry, if you can do everything yourself. Therefore, it is not necessary to tolerate this situation from Article 27, and for this reason we have asked that Article 149 be deleted, and if something is illogical, then the illogical situation in which you want to bring yourself, that you have a parallel ministry. So, you do it, he says-- I won't, you say-- well, let someone from your department at the ministry do it. It's something that's inconceivable, unless the whole law around these centers and commissions is a farce.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31290	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 151. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31291	It is realistic to expect that after such a discussion, the proponent does not accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, but eventually the amendment would dissipate everything that the government, and the government's proponent, accept. Strange things happened when it came to amendments. It's a bit surprising, I'm just doing a little digression, as the minister, as a proposing, accepted Mr. Pal Shandor's amendments, and the parent board, after discussing these amendments, refused the amendments. I speak in principle, to make an exception by the minister, no matter what the decision of the parent board is. I'm taking my colleague Pal Shandor, not as a reason to give him a reason for replication, but as a positive example of his political opponents. Namely, what it's about. We have proposed this amendment, we have had a desire that these tips, proposed by the Government, for which we have in one debate clarified what is the essence of these councils. The point is that, in some ways, the ministry's responsibility is dislocated, that the minister has some auxiliary bodies, which would be in the right sense of meaning, but in some ways, and that part of the responsibility of the ministry can be transferred to the council, so to say - you know, gentlemen, that's a advice that I haven't been speaking since I was six years old, for personally present solution, but for the ability to manipulate advice; you know, gentlemen, it's a advice that's six years in a permanent council, that is, this is the first elected three-year number of members, it's 29 members plus one president. I'd ask a group of citizens just so they don't mind the speakers, until you've been elected legally in other elections, to calm down a bit. What's the point? The point is this. Don't mind if there's a more bile debate here, and if it's a little personal. I'm the one in a series of parents who enrolled a kid in first grade this year. I need you to explain to me, Minister, first of all, how you're interpreting that to this day with the program of students, first-class students, they're not their lecturers. So he doesn't have that program. Imagine what a uncertainty that is. You enter a child under this new law, which you will most likely adopt, and when we have a majority, the first thing we will bring is the abolition of this law, but look, you now have such uncertainty: firstly, what kind of teacher you will find, what personalaffinities these people will have; secondly, what kind of program they will be, whether they will be represented by the individuality of the lecturer, that alternative program, hands in the test, or what I know, which are already alternative objects, or whether they will be the original subject of mathematics, or whether they will be the native language or some other, they are mandatory. It depends on the affinities of the teacher, or teacher. You know, I was still at that first parenting thing. (President: Time.) I've been told by people who work at that school, it's still suspense. What's the point? We're not going personal. The point is, what if this council proposes to the minister some other program, what do we do? It is better for the ministry to continue to have responsibility or, in the end, it would have been better if you had started with one viewing department, so that the department had completed eight years of schooling, or nine years of schooling, and all the shortcomings through that department that you had removed, rather than this -- one generation in which, in the circumstances, my child is also present. To be a bigger tragedy, the other child is taking my entrance exam, Minister... (President: Please take care of the weather. )......................................................................................................... And how he'll remember you, especially since you're recognizable as a reformer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31292	Thank you. Is one of the authorized promoters answering for a word? Yeah. ) Replica, MP Pal Shandor, was mentioned by the People's MP Milorad Mircic. You have not offended, but you have mentioned the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31293	If Mr. Minister had accepted not only my own, but other amendments, I think the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, which were in the same status as mine, that means the following, that he did not dogmatically stick to what he thought when he came to the Assembly, but that he was prone to a democratic debate, that we persuaded him with arguments, sometimes we convinced him. I think it's his rare virtue, unlike some of his colleagues, who dig themselves in and nothing will change. Therefore, he accepted your amendments, accepted some amendments to the DSS, accepted some amendments to the SPS, so he accepted amendments he thought might improve, possibly to strengthen the text of the law where it agrees in his general concept. Therefore, I am no exception here, and you should know that the law that the tide votes is because all committees can refuse any amendment. If the minister accepts it, and the assembly votes for it, then it's a legal text and there's nothing controversial about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31294	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 152. The bill intended that, if the Serbian Parliament's majority accepted this amendment, it was that, since we in the SRS do not come to terms with the existence of these centres and this member, i.e. to delete this member in the bill, so as not to survive the possibility of a centre in the education and education system. As regards a concrete amendment, given that this Member of the Law provides for the authority of the Government to establish appropriate centres within six months of the entry into force of this law, and within one year again some other centres, where one authority is laid down under the Law proposal, and there are obligations. We believe in the SRS that the establishment of these centres entails the spending of larger budgets, as well as in terms of material and technical costs, you transferred certain costs to local self-government units, and so far they only existed in primary education, and now you have passed them on as a commitment to secondary education. The relevant centres should approve licences and check after a certain time, which is, by your law, responsibility for human rights violations, a kind of lustration. Whether the centre concerned will accept the quality of the relevant foreign programme, whether it will allow an appropriate foreign person to form an institution for preschool education, education or for primary and secondary education, which is a question given by the centre at will, which we disagree much with in the SRS. Furthermore, whether or not in the process, I know that it is the job of the director, the managing authority, and at the end of the municipal court, when it comes to the corresponding serious violation of the labour obligation where it is predicted, or as a serious violation of the labour obligation, the existence of party features. Is the party's mark of a pencil with the coat of arms of the SRS or a T-shirt with the image of Professor Vojislav Seselj, whether it's political activity in the room, or in the institution of education, whether it's medium or basic, and I'm curious who's going to assess it and how. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, it's not about the amendment, I don't think there's any amendment to this illogicality and meaninglessness of the provision of Article 116(1) of the right to issue a licence, here I mean teachers, or professional associates, because the license is issued by the Centre for the Professional Development of Employees Education, it should stand - the right to obtain, yes, then I apologize, I didn't follow everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31296	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31297	The government like any government, the Ministry like any ministry, wants power in its own hands, and we just need to bring in some of the frameworks that can be ruled, which can be done, so we can be on the sidelines as MPs. It's a network of schools. One thing is to change these networks, and the other is to establish a detailed plan for the school's early network, because according to this law within a year, one year, the network needs to be established, and I was in the amendment to go to a network of secondary schools, where it depends on the Constitution, on decentralisation, on the region, what will appear and there was no interference for the Republic Assembly to bring that network. It doesn't matter now that the government goes on when problems arise, to change the network here and there, but I think they're the most responsible MPs, to look at everything, because we're all from different territories, because the school network is the interest of the region and the environment and the people who live and work. If we represent these people, then I think we have the right to give these citizens information and ultimately fight for the interests of the environment. This is how the network will be brought to the Serbian government, no matter what government it is, whether it is this one, whether the second government is government, so whoever gets closer to it will satisfy it, and I think the whole concept is still being seen here in the Assembly. It did not mind allowing the Assembly to bring the network on a proposal from the Serbian government and an autonomous province. So, I haven't avoided either, as far as authority is concerned, but the importance of a network of schools is very important, because kids in school, in one poverty, it doesn't matter whether they have a school or not, whether they're able to travel, and they don't have opportunities for homes and private apartments. If we want the Assembly to do its job that doesn't get in the way of others, I think we should have accepted this, but how the government is going to do it, we'll see. In general, this law is not in terms of concepts and approach, and it didn't give anything convincing, what I asked for, and that's the number of classes, although it starts with elementary school, as a guarantee that I believe it can give something, and we're going to vote normally against such a law, and we're going to fight that law to change, supplement and explain until we have other arguments that will be in favour.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31298	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been issued by MP Milan Radulovic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31299	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr Minister, the amendment of the DSS MPs to Article 155 clearly shows our relationship with this whole law and, in particular, with the plan to reform the educational system in Serbia. In fact, we believe that, and this amendment, we have suggested that, with this law, it was necessary, or that it is necessary, as soon as possible, to pass special laws announced by this system law, in order to have a round and comprehensive legal basis for reform. Secondly, we felt that it was very important for the revision and modernisation of school programmes and the revision and modernisation of existing programmes to be done gradually and very carefully and to involve all relevant expert teaching associations in the creation of the programme. It is probably known to you, as we do, that they are making a point that they have not been consulted enough either in the drafting of this law or in the assembly and possible design of new programmes. For example, the Faculty of Philology is dissatisfied with the treatment of Serbian language and literature, the Society of Mathematicians complains, etc. We can put that aside now. In Article 152, you predict that the Centre for the Development of Education and Education Programmes and textbooks will be formed within a year. It is not possible to make any changes in education until new programs are brought in and new textbooks are written. You know, more than anyone here, how bad the textbooks are, how much parents complain about the contents of textbooks. If the Centre will not be organized for a year - and it is assumed that the Centre should provide key support and a key impulse to reform the program and to create new textbooks - then it would be, we considered, meaningfully and wisely, that no new school programs should be prescribed until this Centre is formed, until it gives its results, until it presents its results to the National Educational Council, as we have proposed, or the Educational Council, as you seek, and until the Educational Council and the results theoretically devise and find a modus that the research results of the Centre will be operationalized in concrete school programs. We considered that the changes in the education system should, however, start with school programmes and new textbooks, unlike the Ministry, which seems to me to be prone to realize that it is necessary first to perfect the teaching chamber. (President: Time.) ) If it is possible to go both processes in parallel, but this second one - making new programs and making textbooks, it must be really thorough, it must be the result of constructive co-operation with a much wider circle of professional associations, pedagogical advice and, of course, with culture and public education in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31300	The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31301	Professor, for the high regard I feel for you, I need to say only a few sentences. You know that there's been some resolution in France 7, in the cafe rooms of the Library Club, and that resolution was signed by a number of people, among whom is one person that I'm about to mention. I apologize to him for not being here. That personality is Professor Alexander Lipukowski. This person signed the resolution, at the same time being a member of the reform team. So it's obviously a little schizophrenic behavior of a man who's both at the same time. I'm afraid in this way and with a fight like this, I realize your program is a change of plans and textbooks, and our change of professors and there you are right. We'll connect as much as we can. In six months, we'll have a complete plan to change the textbooks. We can't allow ourselves to destroy something that existed in this country, which is what kind of textbook basis the class is, just because we want to change. We'll let the system go like this with textbooks inoculated and repaired to the extent it can, and in six months, hopefully based on a broad consensus, we'll bring in some action plan to change the textbooks for school 2004/2005.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31302	Are any of the other authorised promoters answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31303	They have now become clearer conceptal differences between the DSS and the Ministry of Education: the DSS considers it to be the central course when one educational system changes curricula and textbooks, and the Ministry considers it to be a teaching training system. We have submitted an amendment to Article 158 by proposing that the Ministry should be given time to run and run both processes at the same time and to either join and very important third, which is the adoption of specific laws on all levels of education. Within a year, the ministry would do a great deal of work if it formed three councils, seven centres, if it passed special laws on all new primary and secondary education and organised a very wide expert debate on which course the curricula would change. When you mentioned the meeting in "The Book Paper," I wasn't there at that rally. You have to understand these people's motives. They have a simple play. They claim that the Ministry favours one type of method at the expense of others and one type of programme and software content for students at the expense of some others. In particular, they believe that the ministry is too forceful for post-modern pedagogical doctrines, while neglecting and neglecting classical and traditional. If you'd waited a year, I don't think there would be any more misunderstandings. Then you could say that you are flexible, that you are not, as far as teaching doctrines are concerned, monastic, that you do not represent methods of enlightened absoluteism that impose something on people who have not yet understood it or who do not have the will to understand it. Also, it would give you time to agree with the finance minister and the entire government to provide funds for reforms. Nobody mentions that here. Reforming the education system in Serbia must cost. It's not just these seven centers and three tips that will have to be paid. It's also a matter of better material treatment for teachers. You are now asking teachers to participate in the creation of teaching programs, to participate in the innovation of methods, and you think that all of this can be done with the wages they have now. (President: Time.) ) It is not possible for someone to agree to have to ask for a work license, to create a program on their own, to inspect methods, to follow new knowledge in their profession, and to maintain the existence of their family through further work outside the profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31304	The word has an authorised representative, MP Nenad Lemajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31305	The idea of this amendment, as well as a series of amendments that follow, is about delaying the start of education reform in the classroom for a year. The adoption of the law on the basis of the education and education system in the Serbian Assembly in this form would create a legal basis for the immediate launch of education reform within the classroom. Of course, that's good. What concerns us is the fact that the pedagogical and financial basis for such serious procedures, in our opinion, has not yet been created. The possible consequences of such a decision could be further destroying our education system and compromising the very idea of reforming education. The DSS therefore advocates that the start of the reform should be delayed by a year. This period to be used to form a national educational council, i.e. an educational council, to achieve agreement on pedagogical aspects of reform, to form a centre, to train teachers, to create textbooks, which are the basic preconditions for successful reform. This period should also serve to clearly define the financial basis of education reform. The current educational separations barely exceed 3% of the national social product, well below the European standard ranging between five and six percent of the national product. You have to admit that all of this is causing considerable confusion with our public, especially with people who are involved in education. The fact is that the Serbian Orthodox Church, an institution of the Serb people, is a couple of excellants, i.e. St. The Archillerian Synod of the Serbian Orthodox Church declared not against reform of education but a requirement for the law to be withdrawn precisely because there are significant reserves, significant fears related to education reform. There are a number of statements here, various teaching associations, the Serbian language department, the Republic seminar in the course of mathematics, mathematicians' societies, the conclusions of the round table, etc., the union of educational workers, they all have dilemmas about this fact. The minister has just cited Mr Litkovski's case, if I'm not mistaken, means a man who simultaneously participates in the creation of reform but has significant reserves. I would also like to give an example of Professor Ivic, although he did not make a direct statement, but I was present at a very visited conference that was just organised by the Ministry, where Mr Ivić expressed significant reserves. Obviously, there are reserves. The DSS has these amendments in this sense because we have significant reserves, and it has prevailed that there are no conditions for the reform to begin this year. The amendments resulting from this are several amendments of 160, 171, 173 and 174 which are consequent, so we will not comment on them specifically.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31306	Thank you. Do any of the authorized promoters want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31307	Here, since we're bringing an end to the general mood, it's a general opinion, so as I understand it, no party is against reform. It is absolutely necessary for the reform to be carried out, and that is what we said in the beginning, that we do as we did 120 years ago and that something should be changed there. But it's such a serious thing, so much is proposed changes not only to the law but to the entire education system, one educational process, that it's just incredible and impossible to start today, after a few months of September 1st, with these changes. I think these proposals that go towards a solution to postpone this by one year, to pass the law and accept the amendment, i.e.. The change that with the resolution of this reform only starts from the next school year, about 2004, it is a time of a year that is not enough, but it is still a time when the entire Yugoslav public can be animated. If we don't have the support of the educational staff, we don't have the support of the structures we just heard, not only the Serbian Orthodox churches, but they're mostly all against this kind of reform, and the minister has pointed out on several occasions that we're going to tell our parents, it's 400,000 parents, if the reform doesn't start today, so if the parents have waited so long for the reform they won't bring any good this year, we'll have much more serious repercussions, and I don't think that such reform will be accepted. That is why I am joining the opinion that this amendment is being accepted, as regards the postponement of the reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31308	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 160a be added after article 160a. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 164 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Milojevic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulović, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the proposing's representative want to give the final word? Here's a word from Minister Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31309	I would first conclude that there is no misunderstanding among political parties on whether change is necessary. Obviously, it is and we're on the same page. It may not be strategic, because I don't think there are any serious concept differences in those who think conceptually, but a tactical difference, so a difference of low intensity. In such a situation, I would like to thank you all very much for the suggestions you've given us. The ministry was trying really to accept those amendments that were appropriate without disrupting the concept of the law and did not take care of which side they came from. It's a fact that comes from the amendments we adopted. Your suggestions and your cooperation were valuable to us. Of course, I'll be there for the vote, and we'll keep our fists to make this project work, and we'll have a new school and children more ready for a new life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-11-0.u31310	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular on the basis of the system of education and education, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. The voting day for this agenda item is Tuesday, 17 June at 11.00 p.m. I would like to inform the MPs that there is a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia, so the parliamentary groups will receive a proposal for the ninth extraordinary session during the day. Thank you, and I'll see you Tuesday at 11:00.
