ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30899	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please insert identification cards into MPs to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue to work. We would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Bosko Ristić, Gordana Komić, Milka Marinković, Marko Djurisic, Vojislav Janković, Vladan Radovanović, Dragisa Marinković, Bojan Kostreš, Petar Misic, Nebojsa Leković, Nada Kolundžija, Išpanovic Istvan, Branislav Pomorički, Srdjan Sikimić, Branimir Trajković, Branko Gligorić and Teodora Vlahović; (late) Milos Lučić; (after noon) Bojana Aleksic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE BASES OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND THE VESSITAINS (the follow-up in particular) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary gurpe.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30900	This report of mine has nothing to do with the law on education and education systems and the amendments to be discussed. I wanted to point out, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 115, paragraph 6. - a computer copy of each vote shall be delivered to the parliamentary groups at their request. I have to meet the Assembly that on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group last Monday, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I asked for a list of votes from the session held on 31 May in the time between 20,40 and 21,40 hours. I have to say, it's been eight days before today. We didn't get that listing and the explanation of the service is that the president of the National Assembly didn't give approval for it. As you know, the subject of that vote was the Lustration Act. We have asked for this listing, because we simply want to hear, or see who the MPs who voted for the Lustration Act are, who are MPs who, by their participation in the quorum, have allowed the Lustration Act to be passed. We want to know that. There's no reason why until today, and it's been eight days, we didn't get that list. I'm saying, the explanation is that the president of the National Assembly hasn't yet given approval to get this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30901	The Administrative Board will decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you, Article 216. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the MP is required to participate in the work of the National Assembly. Since your parliamentary group has not participated, has not participated at all in the vote and has previously taken such a position that those who do not participate cannot seek only rights and have no obligation. (Employee Zarko Obradović, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. [[Sagar.]] You can't do the same thing twice. The Management Board will give an answer if you are not satisfied. That's what we're done with. The Management Board will give an answer. You can only answer if there is another breach of the Rules of Procedure, another member.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30902	Take it easy, don't get nervous. It is the right of the MP and the chief of Parliament to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to receive every public document of this assembly. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I went out to advertise the violation of Rule 233. - the head and composition of the delegation, objectives and tasks shall be appointed by a delegation of the National Assembly, determined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. For several months now, delegations have been set in this National Assembly on behalf of the National Assembly, which go abroad and represent the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For several months now, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has not decided on this, even formally. Here's Mr. Todorovic, board member. The DOS parliamentary groups have been going abroad for several months now on behalf of the Assembly. I don't mind being on the Foreign Affairs Committee, but some private visits on behalf of the National Assembly can't. In the Federal Assembly there is, and which has much greater international activity, exactly the procedure, as here, is only the difference that is respected in the Federal Assembly, and here is not respected. All parliamentary groups participating in the work of the Assembly, in the work of the Committee, shall be entitled to their representatives. We have the last two examples, a visit to the German Security Committee, that is, members of the Security Committee and this delegation led by Mrs Comic. If the delegation should have MPs who gave the quorum to pass the Lustration Act, that is to say. A delegation for foreign visits cannot be designated on behalf of the Assembly. [[Sagar.]] Article 233(2) has been violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30903	On the occasion of this breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will request information from the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, I say, and I'm going to ask for information, now I can't know because the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee is not here. That's one. Secondly, some travels are approved by me, all and many of them by the name of the MPs. You make sure someone calls you, makes the arrangements, and believe me, you get my approval. It can't be a replica. What? That's out of the question. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30904	Since we have heard that about the cost of the National Assembly and the state travels abroad without knowing who is traveling, therefore incompatible with the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly, to note also that Article 233 paragraph 3 states that a delegation of the National Assembly, or the President of the National Assembly or the National MP, is required to submit a visit to the National Assembly within 10 days of the completion of the visit. We never had a written report here on our benches about what anyone was doing abroad. If he went shopping to write - he went shopping, if he went to get money to write - I went to get money, I provided so much and so much, it'll be spent on that too, but to know what our representatives are doing abroad. I think it's the right of every MP, especially the National Assembly. The report, which would eventually be submitted to the president of the National Assembly, is not a report to the National Assembly, and if the president of the National Assembly has received some reports, then it is quite fine and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to forward the report to each MP. Therefore, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are violated here, and that is undeniable. Indeed, Mr. Obradovic was well aware of article 233. The way that committee works and whether it goes past it, that's another thing, but obviously we never got the report after those visits, and it would be our turn to get, in these two and a half, three years, how long you've been in power, where someone's been traveling, which is why and what the results of these trips are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30905	Reports are submitted to the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Committee on Foreign Affairs shall form an annual report, which has also been established by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I consider that there are no injuries, with each MP having the right to make an insight into the reports of the committee responsible, which is the Committee on Foreign Affairs. An additional response will be given by the Administrative Committee. I'm asking the Administrative Board to bring their opinion on this one, too. National MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30906	Try to control your emotions. Your steps forward and your effective behavior is simply inappropriate. If you think anyone is enjoying your screams, then invite those who enjoy it, stay and enjoy it. For those who can't tolerate it, and I'm among them...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30907	Which member do you advertise to Mr. Cirkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30908	It is this member who invites you to be polite in relation to the MPs, and you will find it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30909	What member of Mr. Zirkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30910	By the way, I'm joining the protests. Of course, Mr. Velje's reaction is perfectly appropriate. Of course and reasonable, why not. I join the protests of the previous heads of parliament. I am a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and it is true that this committee has not sat down, it is true that this committee has not appointed a delegation and it is true that someone else is doing so, and it is finally time to say who is doing so beyond the Committee and beyond the business provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30911	You didn't specify which member you were advertising, so I have no obligation to answer. Is there anyone else applying for a word after the Rules of Procedure's injury? No, I don't. We can continue the discussion in detail. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic, together Dragan Todorovic and Dusan Cvetkovic and MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic participated in the debate. Is more of the applicants applying for a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic, and then by MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30912	After such a tumultuous beginning of today's session to try to try a little, despite the unquestionable violation of the Rules of Procedure, we are talking about what is on the agenda today, and this is the proposal for a law on the basic system of education and education. Namely, the SPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 16 proposing that this member be deleted, with an explanation that, starting with the responsibility of the Education Council, which is provided for in Article 17. The proposal for this law does not need to form this advice, as its competences can be realised within the framework of the Expert Education Council. So, it's about a council for harmonising attitudes in education. It is made up of 20 members, appointed by the Government in time of two years, etc. When you look at the little composition of the education council, a truly very discriminatory name, it is evident that a hypothetical situation is possible for all members to find themselves from an autonomous province. Furthermore, for reasons of economic nature, since I am by origin and gene-saving, it is irrational to form three tips. I would like to remind you that the 10th Educational Council, the Council for Professional Education and the Third Council for the Consensus of Views in Education has been formed. So for harmonising attitudes in education of republican importance. I guess all education is of republican importance and I guess there's no education of local importance. As far as I know, all of this can be incorporated into the jurisdiction of the previous council, the advice on vocational education, and I think it is absolutely unnecessary to form another body of advisory character in this way, which will employ a number of workers, advisers to bring attitudes into education together. Who's going to adjust their attitudes? The Ministry's on its own. Yet there is this reason, and how the arguments, and especially because, as far as we've heard, the budget deficit has already exceeded the entire one-year projected amount today, and that is an additional reason to put our finger on the head and say that we could really save a little bit and we shouldn't treat the people's money like that, which the people have trusted us to spend in his interest. This is not in the interest of the people. This is in the interest of people who will be employed within these councils, and how much is it worth to say the work of a council, we can ask ourselves the Education Committee and there is Mr Stanimirović, he is a member of this committee, so he can also say how much he spent, with regard to how important it is. At the end of my presentation, I suggest that you have understanding of such an amendment, so that you accept that this advice is unconstitutional for harmonising the views of conservation, as you have already accepted our amendment to Article 148, and that, for the sake of rationalisation and economic spending of people's couples, we want you to accept this amendment and not necessarily form some body that I don't think is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30913	The word is from MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group. I remind you that the decision of the National Assembly has determined that it is time for a discussion in detail for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30914	Dear Ministers with fellow Members, dear fellow MPs, I'm only sorry I didn't see the interview last night until the end, but I have to look back in one piece. Your Honor, you need to tell me who's against the law and why. It's not enough to indicate who you've made a compromise out of what we had on the board. I think we should stick to what was on the board. It's none of the parties that are against the law, they're against certain solutions in the law, because you can't see from the law. I'm still asking today for a basic education to be delivered to me the number of classes, in nine years' time, to see where you are, so that we can learn lessons. This advice, I don't think he has anything to do. What can it do? If both tips are set well, that means the second one's advice for professional education and advice first, then the third one has nothing to do. On the other hand, there's always a question of what a student community is, what it isn't. Please, you have refused an amendment there, and now here it says this point 9 - student, student community, student parliament. I don't know what that sentence is. If they're student communities, it's not parliament. I don't think duality can, it has to stay on one concept and we'll see what happens next. This advice that we need to agree on is a alignment at a level like this, whether this advice so called, can solve the question. On the other hand, he should address important issues and finance education, giving suggestions to the ministry. Then I don't think the educators are represented to the extent to which they should be represented in this council, at least when it comes to budget-related points, funding... I think there are too many other people who don't guarantee that this advice, even though it passed in that part there, is adequate to the intention that you're planning. I know that you have taken down commissions, or accepted not to go, for me it was smarter occasionally for certain questions, and this advice so called, does not give a guarantee to us who work in education, not even the slightest bit of confidence. When something does not instill trust, then allow us who have the opposite opinions before the Serbian Deans to hear the opposite opinions, and your opinion, ministers, and others who think differently about certain issues, so let it be informed. As soon as you started talking, there was no other information, it was silent last night. I think it was okay that you listed... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... They're against the law, and you're against the law. I don't think the discussions here are extremist. I don't think there's any extremism in any party, really, and one word of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30915	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30916	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, starting with Article 17, which lists the responsibilities of this council, are simply inconceivable that the Proposer proposes such a composition of this council. We asked that Article 16 be completely deleted in accordance with the concept of the Serbian Radical Party, that an educational advice that would possibly have a commission or a professional body is sufficient, and that what was placed in the council's jurisdiction is already doing this educational advice to a large extent, so it is absolutely excessive. I don't see how it will be done, in practice, that all these members, from one to ten, will be elected and proposed to the government that appoints a council to bring their views into line in education. I understand that the government will make a proposal, the government will represent two members in this council. It will not be a problem to propose, nor will an autonomous province, but from points 3 to 10 will be a problem for these people to choose. Under point 10, parents are represented, for example, and are said to be the joint representatives of the parent council. Do you know how many parenting advices there are? How will they, on which body, choose which two men represent them in this body? It's simply inconceivable, as well as the students. A community of student parliaments. How many school facilities in Serbia? About 4,500. How many departments are there? I really don't know how it's going to be practically done, except to have it back on some party basis. It is known who is in the local government, so he will propose two members of the parents for this council or the children of their members who will be represented. I don't even know what you're pushing your kids into this serious thing. They're not children to make education policy. They're children to learn. You know who needs to make politics. If this is interesting that there is, the student parliament and if this parliament should be a reputation for these young generations, which should be taught in this way, then it is better to give them another name. This can only be a bad example for these young generations. Parliament means something else that we here have failed to build, and I don't know how only these young people, full of bullets, will do all that is expected of them in this House. Second, here's the university represented here. We don't know why and what the university has to do with this council, the professional teacher association, and also the joint representatives. It's not a union, I'm guessing it's other associations. Traditional churches and religious communities will probably agree to... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... agree, which two members to attend, which church will give up its representative. I don't think the promoter has taken enough care of how this advice will look on its structure, or on its own advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30917	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Bora Stanimirovic, authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have last rye, regarding Article 10, to erase this position, that is, this council for reconciliation. We've heard from many promoters. I'd only be able to make a statement at first. I would not agree with what counterpart Pop-Lazic suggested earlier, reports of travel abroad are being submitted. I wouldn't agree with that, because if those reports were read, we'd have to do it all the time. It was known earlier that if the Prime Minister travels abroad, he had to have a fat license. Any member of the board, delegations... We heard from colleagues that no one approves, so don't insist, let them travel. Have a good trip, and we'll talk about it later when they get back. As for Article 16, counterpart Todorovic explained it well. There's a lot of illogical stuff here. It's the government's thing to withdraw this amendment, to accept it, actually, because it's about advice that really has no competence. We, if we look at the next Article 17, see neither students nor university professors can decide on elementary, or high school. Second, who appoints members of this council. It's called the government. It's already in point 1 - the Republic is represented by the Government. So the government appoints all the members, but it appoints two pluses. Therefore, all these others are members, and those held by the government are super-members. I so understand, that otherwise, which is why for you that the government appoints all members and has its two members plus, when they are all members of the government, all 20 of them. I would ask to explain this and explain why the Government, besides all these proposals, has its two members appointed. Whether these are certain personalities that may not be able to pass this procedure or whether they are super-members who will have much more rights than they are considered. That's why I would once again invite the minister to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30919	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vlasimir Budimovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30920	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers, has given me the right to disagree with the previous debates for over 30 years. It is true that education costs a great deal, not in our country, but in every country, so it is illusory to discuss what the price is for us to direct our society and our young people on the right path. Secondly, I think it's my turn to give these people a certain confession here, to this team that's been working on this bill, one sizifian job, and I have an excuse for doing it, to commend all of it, because I've survived 30 educational reforms that have never produced any results so far. As far as this member is concerned, the council is the basic cornerstone, in my opinion, a professional body that needs to build on the regularity of the reform of education. If we set things up like that and if we can really competently discuss it, then we can discuss applying it. I put my amendment in one piece, out of a pure desire to put one population in the context of this amendment. In fact, 3% of the population of the regular population is occupied by children and young people with special needs. Their representative in this council is gone. If we're going to carry out this segment of education properly, I would ask you to adopt this amendment, in any part of these 10 representatives by two, so in order to do so, I suggested that when parents are delegated, the joint representatives of the parent council, that one representative be by the parents, and the other one be by the people who work with these people. Alliances of blind, deaf, dystrophysics, disabled, mentally retarded in their alliances have very high experts, practitioners, who are able to do this part. It would be an injustice if they didn't find their representative and their place on a professional team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30921	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30922	It is particularly justified that Mr. Budimovic wants to include parents of children with special needs. The problem is only with the membership formulation, and since the member can't be partially adopted, then we had that problem. You have reduced the number of parents to give these people a chance to do what others did when they changed the composition, increased the number of members of the Council, then it would be acceptable for us. In this situation, at this point it is unacceptable to reduce the number of parents. Otherwise, the idea is completely noble and we stand behind it. Too bad we can't accept that at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30923	Does anyone else sign up for a word? (No) Natasa Milojevic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Education Committee has not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) On the 17th Amendment in the same text, the MPs submitted: together Branko Ružić and Jovan Todorovic, together Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic and National MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30924	And through the amendment to this article, an impression can be made, that is to say, that the promoter realizes that he missed the topic and that the system of education cannot be solved with at least four laws, and especially not that anas proposes a law on the basis of the system. We had laws on the fundamentals of property-legal relations, on the basics of PIO when there were different levels of government, so there was a need to even it out. In the Republic of Serbia, there is no need to level up, but there is no difference in the level of government, because all that local self-government and the AP do in terms of education are actually entrusted to state affairs that are exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. With this amendment, I wanted to draw attention to the promoter that he must bear in mind the provision of Article 10 of this law where it is specifically stated that the Government is educateing the councils, so I would ask the Proposer to look at Article 18, where it is said that the Republic is setting up centres. According to this logic and the difference between the termological and what is in the work of councils and centres, these centres are administrative organisations, and that the advice is actually the advisory bodies of the Government, and if the advisory bodies of the Government, since they do not do any administrative work, nor bring any legal act, then they must be educated, established by a government act, not by law, because it is not a matter governed by law. In addition, if the material solutions of Article 17 are looked at very incorrectly, this advice, which does not adopt any legal act, does not have jurisdiction, but does some task, some job. He's actually counseling the minister. The government has forced us to adopt Article 17 where it is said that the minister will reach his position and his opinion. In fact, this advice is one space, that is, one sponge that needs to receive all the spit and all the protests interested in education, that they do not reach the minister, but it first sets out its own advice that harmonizes attitudes, for God's sakes, takes great opinions. To understand this, it is about the same thing as when Dragan Marsican, the unhappy first changed the Rules of Procedure, so by mistake he introduced a provision to form a professional team, to advise him on how to run the National Assembly sessions. That's what this member means when it comes to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30925	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Vladimir Garcevic, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30926	In Article 17, as defined, I think it's the opposite of the part relating to that advice. If it's a alignment, then it could be an alignment of something that's his jurisdiction. But be careful. We go under one -- the law in the areas of education and education gives an opinion. I guess they'll be doing laws, proposing the Serbian government, and the Educational Committee, if it is, and it's about education, and the Assembly is going to pass laws. We're not going to be collecting 20 people who are going to be giving an opinion, we're going to be working on an expert who's supposed to be doing this job. Under two -- laws that determine the financing of activity. Excuse me, the budget is being adopted in the Republic's parliament on a proposal from the government. If adopted, I guess the strategy is run by the finance minister, the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the minister of education is looking for his post as part of the budget. I guess it is within the Serbian government that economic opportunities should be brought into line between the ministers and the Serbian government. Inside. There's no such thing as a job. Three -- in the budget that applies, and that's not good. Please, please, by Article 5, expert questions. There's nothing to deal with professional questions. Only advice under number two can be dealt with by professional questions. This advice here does not allow dealing with any professional question, nor does it allow for the consent of the profession. The profession belongs to professional associations and professions and does not belong to this advice. He says, "Other questions that will be raised as part of the establishment of this council." This advice can't do any other questions. He's listed here what's taxing, what's legal. And no other questions can be put into that part of the work without what's written here. If the law is the law, if we want to obey it all the way. I think this was excessive, and that this member and that convocation were all too high and there was no need for everyone to do their job, the minister, to be responsible for what he did, or if it was good to get gifts for what he did, not to look for cover for both finance and everyone out there. There's no outside, everyone's got their own personal responsibility. Therefore, you ministers in that part too.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30927	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30928	It's about Article 10. We asked to be deleted, but there's more arguments here. Now that they've looked at jobs, we've seen who's doing all this advice. Now let's see what kind of business they're dealing with, or questions. What do they suggest, how do they advise the minister, what suggestions do they give him? If it is seen that the Republic's budget is to be declared by students, this is about part of the budget for pre-school, primary school and high school. To declare students, parents, university representatives, I think that's unnecessary. What does that mean? What university professors care about is how much she gets money, etc. They don't school, but they won't worry, there's someone to worry about. We have so many unions. We have 10 unions today. Everyone has their own union. Therefore, the union is who I think will be the problem. That's what someone brought out here last time. It's precisely because it's a weak role for the union. We look at this whole law completely, then it turns out these are private schools. And when it comes to the office of director and the function of minister. We're constantly pointing out some decentralisation, and we're working centrally. I don't think that goes well with each other. Especially when it comes to some specific issues, how will we be able to include special students who... This is what you have here in the next Article 18, one attitude that says: "the act on the establishment of a centre and the formation of some organisational units". It's like everything's been prescribed by Cardell. Cardellus had these basic organizations and organisational units, and here in Article 18, that's exactly what was used. Someone's probably read Cardell a lot before. That is why we suggest that, starting with Article 10, Article 17 is deleted as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30929	Does anyone else sign up for a word? National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30930	There is an impression based on the authority of this council, as they are defined in Article 17. that the minister will have to hire twenty more people in the ministry, who will read all this opinion, which will create some shortened version that the minister will have to read in order to get to know who and why he is looking for, because he will be covered by various opinions of all these structures from 1 to 10 listed in Article 16. Parents will always have something to say and propose to the minister, always the students will have something to demand or to give their opinions, especially for the budget. Not to mention professional associations of teachers who will probably always have a comment on their standard, and on their salaries, and on their position, and on the programme itself and on the number of classes etc. He's completely out-of-date with this article. All that's listed in article 17 is so much nebulosity that I wonder how this council, drawn up like this, will discuss and give an opinion on the Republic of Serbia's budget, which concerns primary and secondary education. We can only talk about the budget here and determine how much money it takes, what position to go to, and the government knows how much money there is and how many schools there are and how many educators there are, how many students there are, and based on these criteria, and proposes certain items in the budget. You tried one way that should be reportedly transparent, to include as many structures as possible in deciding and thinking about what kind of education system should be, what programs should be, how much money to spend on education, but all of this will be one boomerang just to the ministry that tried this way to release its responsibility, and the responsibility to transfer to various committees, and we'll see later. Have the ministry consult whoever they want. The Minister with whom he will, abroad, gathers all the knowledge he can get, no one has ever defended him, only now through this law he wants to make some advice and some commissions that really don't belong in the law. Good fellow Krasic noticed it, commenting on the amendment to Article 17. The Minister of his advisory organs can look wherever he wants, but he shouldn't do it like this. He also has a position in the end for spending money for those purposes, and he doesn't have to enforce it through law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30931	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) Before we continue the discussion in detail, only brief information. They sent me a report from the annual Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was submitted on 5 May 2003 and will be shared with parliamentary groups. The title above the member and article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 18 and the title above Article 18 and, in accordance with the programme orientation of the SRS, we insist that this article be deleted from the text of the law, given the devastating consequences it will cause if adopted in such a text and if it starts to apply. What are the reasons and what is the background for putting such a member into the law on the basis of the education and education system? On 5 October, the DOS came to power and to the government of donations from foreign NGOs and foreign governments, intelligence services to NGOs operating in the Republic of Serbia, were cut off, reduced to a much smaller extent than it was before 5 October. It was necessary for a number of people who worked in these NGOs to be arrested, that is to find ways to fund them through the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This and this law, in practice, legalizes, legalizes centers that would accept people who have made a parallel education in the past ten years, affecting our children. What is most important in this area is the final view that "the establishment and operation of the funds centre will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget". So, both the impoverished state and such an empty budget should provide additional funding for the formation of seven centres that will work within the Ministry, each of these centres can have organisational units, and then there will be seven other organisational units within these seven organisational units of seven employees. This will lead to new expenditures from the budget, we think in an unwarranted direction, and the evidence is that one of the activists of the Open Society Fund, Aleksandre Popovic, who gave "Blic-Nenjs" that the explosion of NGOs will be in the spring of 2001, will then be less and less funded from abroad, as many members of NGOs will become members and will thus implement their programmes. Unfortunately, the time for discussion is reduced to three minutes. There's a lot to talk about about this article, but since five minutes of discussion has been cut to three minutes, there's almost nothing serious to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30933	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30934	These seven centers, which you have predicted as special administrative organisations, and what else they might be, are indeed evidence of this thesis that we have had to delete, that many members of NGOs will become members of government or government organisations. I absolutely understand that whoever gives money for this, because we don't have money in the budget for this, or, if we have this year, even though I'm convinced we don't have a quarter for this, but we're waiting for it to come out of donations, it's not going to last forever. They're going to leave us without these donations very quickly, in six months, in a year, and we're going to set up a system that we're counting on in the long run and we're going to have to finance it. How and where? We waste money on taxpayers, and this does not significantly affect the quality of our education. Some people will be arrested here, the costs of those from the West who give money to certain NGOs, and I almost read in the press that these are up to tens of millions of dollars for individual NGOs, all depends on how capable it is of attracting some of its foreign capital programs, but these are all the money that goes into consumption. Those who give money to these NGOs, they better give a little bit to the government here to fill their budget deficits and get these people, practically, muddled over by the government and make it all in some legal form. I think you're making a big mistake. I am convinced that some commissions need you, that you certainly need the educational advice, but this is the kind of thought-out concept from seven centers, where you have tried to sum up everything about education and all the structures of students, starting with those with special needs, through adult education, and also artistic education, for further education of educational staff. I don't know what your centers are gonna do. In fact, it doesn't really say what they're really going to do. Are they going to make any decisions, or are they going to advise someone, where their seat will be? I can only see that the funds must be provided in the Republic's budget. That's what I'm very worried about, because I know that this geometric progression will grow and grow, and so will any bureaucratic apparatus that strives to increase every year. There will always be an area that is not allegedly covered by certain professional people in the composition of these centers. That would be the basic reason why we asked you to stay on one council and, possibly, several commissions or expert teams. You went in reverse. You've abolished commissions and expert teams. I don't know what you're going to do with Article 19, but this is all about just multiplying a bureaucratic apparatus that's going to cost us all a lot, and we're not going to get to any quality in reverse order. You've abolished commissions and expert teams. I don't know what you're going to do with Article 19, but this is all about just multiplying a bureaucratic apparatus that's going to cost us all a lot, and we're not going to get to any quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30935	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? Here you go, Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30936	After the words of the representatives of the SRS, I certainly have one knowledge, which is that all of us sitting here, all of the political organizations, however they are, left or right, in the center, have the same vision of things. It's not a good situation where there's just a ministry and a school. So, something needs to be established. What we're not different is the numbers, is it two, three, one, is this seven, five, twelve, it doesn't matter. We accepted some amendments, which gave up additional work bodies. Believe me, as they're conjectured, they only have one goal -- to provide us with high professionalism of the system and professionalism in making decisions. We went with this concept. Let's try that concept to make it happen. If it goes too far tomorrow, there'll be another parliament, things will be settled. It seems to us that this is the right measure. Maybe tomorrow it'll show that it takes nine, I don't know, but let's try the system to drive and see how it works.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30937	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Bora Stanimirovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30938	I'd also have a practical question - we had so-called by 1992. The Republic Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. He's been suspended and that's not good. However, I think we form seven centers, but in Serbia, almost every major municipality we have so-called. Departments of the Ministry who, part of it cares about working relationships, it's an Educational Inspection, and the other part are counselors, so on. A pedagogical service that will, in practice, also do these jobs that are provided for in these centers. Whether only seven centres for all Serbia will be maintained, or under an existing system and law adopted and currently valid, so-called. departments, i.e. seduce you or some other centers. I know in the municipalities, these centers aren't gonna do this job. They have to follow what's left, and that's to follow that educational work around schools. The Republic centers, whatever their name is, are unable to track one centre, say, across Serbia, because that centre would have to have an army of people. Second, he can't know the state of what he's like in the Shop, what he's like in Prepolje, and I don't know what other place he's in. That's why I'd ask for that explanation from the government's representatives, what they're planning to do next, whether only these seven centers, or parallel, normally with their competences, exist and those departments of the Ministry that function and without which, practically, I mean today, education can't be imagined. If it's about centers, we agree and there's no institutions of the Republic, it's been abolished, let's form centers but not seven, because it's a lot of it. I don't know why the minister doesn't just say, ladies and gentlemen, we have to pass this law because the European Union is telling us, we can't go to Europe, and that's for sure. It's clear to all of us. Whether you agree or disagree, it's clear to us that we can't do it without it. Let's find some measure and adjust it to our own terms. Take the Croatian example, best of all, Croats not only when it comes to extradition, they don't extradite to The Hague tribunal, and we extradite who we arrive at. He wants to join the European Union, but he doesn't want the law proposed by the European Union. Therefore, we must come from European standards, but also from our options. I believe that the European Union will not ban Serbia-Montenegro from entering the European Union unless we quite accept seven centres. Maybe with three centers they'll accept us, if those centers are doing their job. That's why I'd suggest three centers. The first one would be...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30939	I warn you, you've already timed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30940	I'll continue later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30941	Okay, thank you. No more applications under this amendment. The title above the members and article of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else sign up for a word? There's no sign-ins. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Milan Jankovic. Is there a word application for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here is the word of the People's MP Miomir Ilic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30942	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SPS, my colleague Milan Jankovic and I have submitted an amendment to this article on 19th where we propose that Article 3 be deleted, and in the explanation given in the text of the amendment, we complement the following reasons. In addition to seven centres, various commissions and other working bodies, this justification in such a difficult economic and political moment for education, which we believe should be highly educated and qualityd, should also have certain reformal directions in relation to the existing situation and some other situation, but that justification for all this has been done, and in terms of this article there are neither economic nor certain legal reasons. For this reason, this position of Article 19, which we propose to delete, reads as follows: "The teacher, teacher or expert associate selected on the basis of the competitions set out in Article 2, rests the working relationship in the workplace from which he is absent during work on the expert team". Firstly, the argument concerns why I propose to delete this member is contrary to the Labour Act, which in Article 63 paragraph 3 states that the choice, appointment to office in a state body, political and trade union organisation or another public function can calm the working relationship. Unfortunately, other public functions can't be expert teams in these seven or more or more centres, because then there could be other places, I say, which are performed in public functions, to declare the public and to be able to calm the working relationship. There is no coverage in the Labour Act, and there is no economic coverage, because 103,855, as you have stated in the explanation, the employees of the school are compared to the economy that is collapsed, there is no coverage for budgeting. For this reason, the reform course you advocate should also have economic support and a basis. All economic flows have been torn apart, we do not have a product that can throw out one market value on the domestic market, and in particular the world market, in order for the budget to be credible and that budget users, which primarily refer to education, should have support. For this reason, we believe that this position of Article 19 should be deleted, since there is no coverage in the Labour Act, there is no coverage in economic relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30943	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has been given by MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30944	We also spoke last time when it came to Article 19 and when it was an observation that these advices, or centres, would not increase the number of workers, and the colleague explained it rather nicely, just because the centre can choose professional teams, that it chooses teams, etc., would not, must increase the number of employees. That's why I suggested that three centers be formed. The first centre would be to evaluate the quality and the approval centre of the programme, because it's about the same, so it's to be one. Furthermore, the Centre for Professional Development of Educational Employees, for adult education and the third center, given the major problem, is a centre for education of persons in need of special social support. We have to admit, these are the least we've ever provided to these people. Their position may be so dramatic that it should form such a center. Otherwise, I don't understand this art education and education center. If we came from that, we would have to form centers for many, not just artistic and other works. I have the impression that we are too rich a country and that we will discuss and form a center for artistic education and education. What does that essentially mean? I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30945	Is anyone else applying for a word to this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go. Do you want a word? (The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, from the place: Is he accepted or not?) Here, you have a word. (The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, from the place: Is he accepted or not?) I'll say it while you're walking. Does it say somewhere I should say it first? Do you want a word, do you argue or do you not want a word? I'm asking you nicely do you want a word? Does anyone else want a word? Here you go. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Milorad Mircic, the applicant for the amendment to Article 20.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30946	Madam Chairman, only the universe and your impertinence have no limits. It's real, and I'm asking you as a MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30947	On the basis of Article 102, I give you a warning because you insulted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30948	You can do whatever you want, but I'm asking you, as an MP, whether an amendment has been accepted or not, you're required to let me know while you're in place. If he was accepted, I wouldn't go out. You're pushing your own self-will. What do you think some fear is going to take over?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30949	Please return to the subject, I warn you that you have been given the word to speak of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30950	It's you, you're more of a theme. The amendment of the SRS refers to Article 20, and that is something that simply does not believe that the education law uses foreign expressions, and especially this kind of foreign expression, so it says, to evaluate quality, it is an evaluation, and for the approval of accreditation. Since your co-workers haven't come forward, you have a director here, who in law you say will be the manager, so let's say the director is named in this newly-compromised language of yours -- a reference for the placement of free funds, would be fantastic. A large, huge plate on the door would be, you would satisfy the form, and in fact that's the essence of your reform. Use foreign expressions, use foreign recipes. To defend us, you are telling us that at this center for estimating the quality of people who will do professional work when it comes to preparing the final exam programme, then high school graduations, grading the quality of teaching and what the ministers told us in one of the opening exhibitions, you used part of the experience from Slovenia. Imagine their experiences, Mr. Minister, because you are at least four decades old, like me, older than that state. What experience do they have if we're older than their country? It would be best for all of what you're using, and what you want to apply in this law, is to imagine well, because you're doing these experiments with centers over living people, on children. Since you haven't thought of a minister or a bar telling you, because the Ministry has already been divided inside you into a piece for basics, a section for secondary education, or a college and that part that's been added to sports. I guess there's enough employees to do most of the jobs than these centers. What was your idea? Dislocate the apparent power outside of the ministry, so you wouldn't be called employees and parents tomorrow, but they said the centers were wrong. The minister's responsibility is not taken down, and for the vocabulary you use is best suited to the one Ćopićevska "The cat is a calf's head".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30951	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30952	Mr. Mircic, you said we use foreign recipes. In doing so, I'm going to accidentally select some words from your dictionary. You said the experiment instead of the tour, you said the recipe, you said the center, you said the program, you said the graduation, you said the quality. You said seven foreign words like this without feeling it. (Milorad Mircic, from the post: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30953	Is that offensive? Did you use foreign words? He didn't misread you, we all know what those words mean. Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21 and I request that the title above Articles 21 and 21 be deleted. The explanation, which I have received, that the amendment should not be accepted, because the establishment of the centre provides for comprehensive professionalisation in the field of education and education, i.e. the transfer of powers from the Ministry to the state authority and the institution established to carry out professional activities. I think only the Ministry is extremely professional and that by introducing these centers, we will not increase professionalization. I think my colleague, Mr. Mircic, explained that my view that these centres are unnecessary and that, as planned, as well as various advices, all these jobs can be done by all the people who work at the Ministry. Given that these centres will be professional and that we have expert teams, this means that a large number of people will be hired and that is a major blow to the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is unnecessary. Mr. Minister, I read in the paper today that a number of students are looking for your shift. If this assembly is to be accepted by this law, be sure that your shift will be sought by teachers in secondary schools and preschools.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30955	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30956	It remains unclear, Mr. Minister, our request to delete Article 19 since this is related to the adopted amendment to Article 11, which you have practically abolished these commissions, professional teams and other working bodies. So the expert teams stay here as part of the center system. The evaluation centre, which we also consider unnecessary and the accreditation centre, is related to this, since it performs professional tasks relating to accreditation on the basis of established standards, which determines those standards, and then you say preschool programme, study programme, teacher and educator education. In the principle debate, we've already talked a lot about who's going to do it and how. I can see that the education union is also getting a lot of complains about what you're committing to them. It's an extra education program for teachers, a training program for directors, which is really outrageous. It seems to me that if someone meets all the conditions of being a director, so now we're making an additional manager, a mojo, and it should have management skills, but it's a failure to support everything that one man has as a reference, if he reports to the CEO's competition, so now we need an additional program to educate and then how he performs that directorial function. Professional training and training program. I guess he's thinking about all these categories in general, the teacher's staff and the directors. Once again, for a third time, just a little bit different, you say that we will have to further educate teachers and educators, educators and professional associates and perform other professional tasks in accordance with this legal act and establishment. We're interested in these centers, who's going to determine the number of employees and where they're going to be at the end of those centers, and whether they're going to be shelling out by some territoriality, or if there's only one center for any of these, so whether for evaluation, whether or not for accreditation, you have these five other centers. They're based in Belgrade, and I'm guessing you won't be going any further, but there will probably be a desire to spread those teams, and that's why we thought the centers were absolutely unnecessary. When you just said that we all agree that the Ministry isn't enough and that there are other professional organs or advice that should be provided to assist the Ministry in carrying out such an important and wide-ranging activity, it's only in one hand true, but we can give the government the opportunity to experiment and try in one period in this way to function...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30957	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30958	But it can really cost us a lot, and it was supposed to be a basic criterion for us when we passed this law to be quality and rationalization. We need to rationalize that we have as a priority, since we know what resources we have...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30959	Second warning for time-overtime.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30960	I'm finishing my sentence. Just so we know it's not gonna get any better anytime soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30961	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30962	To answer a few questions Mrs Pop-Lazic asked. Where's the end? The end is number seven. So these seven proposed, that's the end for us. I'd like to say something. It's not an experiment. It's not a government experiment. This is the setting of things that we've come up with some scientific analysis. As far as the next question is concerned, are we predicting the centers, as I understand it, the answer is no. There's no malls in the joints. Next question, how many employees. Leaving this member to whom we have opened the possibility of a commission being formed is exactly our attempt to reduce the number of employees, because on the basis of the contract with the commission that temporary and occasional work is being completed, so that the centres will not be hung up. It's our attempt to rationalize.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30963	There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. The title above the member and article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30964	There are several reasons why we, in the Serbian Radical Party, think this amendment should be accepted. The first reason, or it doesn't matter which one, one of the reasons is financial nature, and last night I listened to you say that you wouldn't be making big centres, that you wouldn't hire new people, but that you would hire people with a contract of action. It's not a neck. It's a neck. I don't see what the difference is. The second reason is contained in the very explanation of this amendment where it says that the Ministry has the possibility and the jurisdiction to deal with all the tasks provided for for this centre, and are specified in Article 18. A bill of this law. The responsibility of the Centre for Professional Development of Educational Employees, ministers, is offensive to all teachers and their teachers. Here you're predicting some checks that are absolutely too high for people who have qualified to do this job. In addition, so far, all educators have passed a professional exam and have further qualified to perform their teacher’s duties. The question arises here - who is he and what professional equipment should he have in order to carry out the tasks envisaged for the work of this center. What kind of school equipment are these people supposed to have, or what kind of special qualifications are they supposed to have for them? This centre, among other things, will take care of licenses and license registers. I was saying, when I was speaking in principle, and I'm saying again, I think licenses are absolutely unnecessary, because licenses are in areas where something new appears. Let's just say, air mechanics are licensed for a new type of plane. I don't know what you're up to, except that you've introduced a new history, I don't know how you think you're going to introduce a new type of law of gravity, a new type of Pythagorean theorem, or I don't know what teachers are going to take those licenses for. I don't know how you think you can convince them to attend, as you said last night, a course of innovation, when it's common knowledge, you heard last night's show manager, and you hear probably the voice of the public, that the educators absolutely don't accept this bill of yours and they have no intention of applying it, as they didn't apply the program you had for the past school year. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30965	Did anyone else sign up for a word? There are no reports. On the 22nd amendment with a correction, MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic together submitted. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Vladimir Garcevic, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30966	By last night, a man may have had some dilemma, but one conclusion, the minister, this will serve as a license to remove teachers and teachers. We can take a look at the video. In one part, where you're at the very end, you said it would all go nicely, slowly, but we'll eliminate... Who do you eliminate? Who's got a college degree? Who in the country of Serbia can forbid, who has graduated and passed a professional exam and a license, so that he can work in education? It's nowhere to be found. You do what you want, you won't do it. We've got to be clear with that. On the other hand, you said 700,000, I apologize if it's the wrong number, it should be next year for reform. Whether it was the dollar, the euro, it doesn't matter. This year is 380... (Gasho Knezevic, from the place: Dinar is a means of payment. )......................................................................................................... I may have made a mistake, I'm assuming I was wrong about that listening, but what are the additional funds, who approved them, who assessed that it was, and we haven't improved the base base, and it's an equipped school. On the other hand, you know very well that next year we have to repay two billion euros of credit. You know in the Serbian government. If we have to repay that kind of credit, and we have to train, by my count, and by yours, five years times 20,000. Last night, as I recall, you said everyone had to go through that 20,000 in one year. I don't know how you're gonna get 20,000 people through the seminars. You have to go to the diaries, you have to pay to eat, you have to stay, you have to get literature. I would be very pleased that in education we have provided free professional literature, to equip ourselves, teaching literature, to equip schools, to have our reading rooms supplied enough and our children. That's one of the first conditions. Don't run away from education, but please, the workshops that take place are not adequate for us to continue. We'll deal with it. On the other hand, you can't send 20,000 people to training one year. Economically, there's no way. It was healthy, and you were healthy, if you were a minister, so let's see if we met, if you could send 20,000, because the rest of the pensioners are hungry, the rest stay. Something that isn't realistic doesn't mind being told, what I told you back then, that it's a teacher's duty to attend professional training if the school provides conditions. (President: I warn you of overstepping. That's where we agreed. So, don't run away from professional education, but such a professional education, which allows an individual to be abused tomorrow, no matter who's in power, is not as good as education. I see you want to be in health care, but it won't be good either.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30967	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30968	Given the fact that education is done by people who have graduated from engineering and teach mathematics, I would understand that they need to acquire some additional knowledge from the field of pedagogy and psychology and that it is something that might be an integral part of that expert exam. I think that's how it's been, if it isn't, it should certainly be, because these are the additional knowledge needed by teachers who, in addition to having to pass on knowledge, have to be educators, because they work with children who require knowledge and these teachings. But this center is exactly the one that's going to spend the most money, no matter what reason we don't see what the centers are going to start doing right away, which are four centers that are going to work next year. Unrelated to this, only for these three centres that are now working, 29.5 million dinars must be provided for this period from July 1st to December 31st, and then, to obtain the calling of these teachers, i.e. the lustration of teachers 69 and 70 million in primary education, in a medium 30 million, preschool education of 146.5 million. I have to say that our preschool education has nothing to object to, it is to this extent well done in our country that we can only bring some interference and it is a pity that preschool education has passed to the Ministry of Education at all, it is our opinion, somewhat experienced, knowing what is going on and how preschool education in Serbia works. You know what, if we can thank the Constitutional Court's decision that the MP has his mandate, and we have a lustration law where someone else will call us for what we're doing or what we've done and say -- you can't do it anymore, and apparently, according to the Constitutional Court, we only answer to our constituents, we're breaking into one round where no one knows who's drinking or who's paying, and this is one extra, it seems to me, the mechanism to profit and enlightenment, and if you're thanks to education and thanks to this really bad standard of education workers and how you manipulated education and employees in education, including our children, when it went into your best interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30969	The word has the MP Bora Stanimirovic, then the minister of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30970	If the law is looked at in general, it turns out that this whole system is psychologicalized and turned into some kind of funny experiment. If you look at some of the texts that are already being offered, they speak best to you. I used to say we need to find some environment, and we didn't make it, it's true that our children were overloaded, and now we're putting them into some system and games, how long do children have to play, are they two, three, or all nine years? So, through the game, they come to everything that is necessary, as if life itself were a game, as if nothing else were to be expected in life, but all the good and whole working life would be played. We agreed on boards earlier and in discussions, and this is not the first reform. I regret to point out that those most, who participate in the concept of this law, actually this reform is a man who has been doing the same job for 40 years, is a psychologist, so that's why this program isn't here, which is why we're in such a situation, you know. We've had a lot of problems with them before, because he can cash it nicely and that's good. He turns it into business and then it's business. Be careful, for value only, take the value of the work. (Zeljo Huric, from the scene: Business is what you're talking about. Please report to your colleague after. You see, when it comes to grading, the minister spoke on TV last night, and he's right. You need to change your mind, it's very difficult to change people's minds, but we need to change the minds of children, the awareness of parents, the world of teachers, the consciousness of ministers or the government, anyway, all of us, as a monk, above all. Why? Because for years we've learned to simply value different values, other values, and now we're looking for something else. Therefore, we should have worked a little longer, because we didn't, not the SPS against this reform, we've pointed out before what it is that bothers us, that our programs are overloaded, that our children from the first class teach us a lot of things that we don't need, that students judge already in the first half, which is not good. But it's not good if all of a sudden we just throw it all away and say, kids, you're gonna play. We can't, we haven't prepared, even though it's about some seminars. The seminary in the center (not understood) with a thousand and a few educators doesn't mean anything. If we want to do this education in some way for educators, we have to bring it down, we can't bring it down from all over Serbia and here in Belgrade, to the House of Unions or I don't know where, they hear about a lecture, and they think it's enough. For such a change, for such a reform, there is much more work to be done and much more to be prepared, to educate those who will educate others later, and these are educational workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30971	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30972	Just to finish the sentence, so, we're just suggesting that in the evaluation, I'd just finish one thought, it's going to be very difficult, because we don't have grades now, and we've been working on it before, and it's not good that first grade students get grades right now, but it's in people's minds, it's in people's heads, it's in children's heads, because the kid's looking for grades, the mother's looking for grades, so everyone's looking for grades, and not only that, nobody's asking how many students he's learned at school, but if he's got an "A" and what that "A" means, maybe it doesn't mean nothing. So it was supposed to be working here a little longer. When we asked to postpone maybe for a year, we didn't ask to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30973	Did you finish your sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30974	We didn't ask for a delay because of some other relationships, but just to make all the preparations and make this reform comprehensive and then have more, don't warn me, there's someone who needs to warn me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30975	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, there isn't. applications. I've already announced, actually. The word is from Mr. Minister of Education, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30976	The three groups of remarks were the first question of Gordana Pop-Lazic, the three centres will work by the end of this year, which is evaluation, professional education and professional teacher development, according to transitional provisions. Secondly, no one has any intention of disqualifying or taking away a degree, not even those in the system who were directors, secretaries or teachers, remain in the system and no one will question them. Education is just an extra, and not a prerequisite for getting a job, but later on for professional development. But if someone disqualifies someone, that man will do it to himself, and if he mentally or sexually abuses children, he wants to disqualify himself from a circle of educators, because he can't do it together. First one, then another, I don't know how. There is one fear of acquittal, i.e. of taking down grades, numerical grades for the first two classes. The score will stay, don't get the wrong thing, except it won't be numerical, and there's one, you said yourself, why you're learning -- for the grade or for the knowledge, and I think it's essential if we study for knowledge. So let's ignore that grade, but the competence will remain, because the assessment will be expressed in another way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30977	There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. The title above the member and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovanovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not disputed that we from the SRS have repeatedly mentioned the need to make certain changes in the system nature in education and education. However, a large number of solutions in the bill system that you have submitted to the National Assembly are not good, of course, and Mr. Minister mentioned that a large number of solutions to the Western countries' systems are here in the bill, but at the same time they are denied many values, especially national values from these areas that have been expelled from the previous law and have not been introduced into this bill. As for the amendment itself, we in the Serbian Radical Party, it is already known to you, Mr. Minister, from earlier reasons of the amendment, that we do not feel necessary and that the existence of various centres is too high. You have seven committees, committees, councils, etc. in your proposal. It only helps us to point out to you that your tendency to have various types of agencies in the government, the bureau, various types of centres, etc., NGOs that burden and such a weak budget. The centre and other centres, especially in this amendment, which mentions a centre for professional education and adult education, envisions the possibility of forming possible organisations of those units, which could be an additional burden of financial nature on Serbia's budget. We believe that these jobs, with their departments or other organisational units, can already be done by the Ministry of Education, because we consider it qualified both professionally and technically. Time will show whether you are right about this proposal, or whether we are from the Serbian Radical Party, which shows that these solutions that you have made are excessive, unnecessary and irrational. You know, as Minister, you are one of the main links in the implementation of education, seminars, courses for educators according to the education workers themselves who attend these seminars, according to a programme that has no basis in our legislation. They say they are Western countries' programmes, specifically the George Soros closed society fund, and those members of the Democratic Party and educational workers say it is the application of the Democratic Party programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30979	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30980	So you're already working on that program, and you're predicting it, its application and the accreditation of the program by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30981	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30982	Just one brief observation and a conclusion that has been imposed on me about these centers and the commission. Looks like our Ministry of Education is completely hollow with frames. It wouldn't be a bad idea if you had an education center and employees at the ministry here. And in particular, the question is raised, when you license all these teachers, who will license those who give the licenses. By which you will choose people who will be professionally and professionally trained to give licences based on the criteria of educational workers. Who's gonna give them a license for that, except you or the ministry that you and those people are gonna have the authority to give licenses. I don't know how many ministry employees there are, but I know it was one of the most numerous ministries of its time. How much of a man's care or care he has now, I don't know, you know better, but judging by this bill, you've got these problems in the ministry with the people you're working with.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30983	The word has the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30984	I have one contradiction. Mr. Radovanovic of the Serbian Radical Party praised the ministry, saying that all the professional people already exist with us and that he does not know why these centres will be for us, and now we have this Mrs. Pop-Lazic. I'm not answering because of this observation, but because the Educational Council makes the criteria, so the concrete answer to the question is who is the Educational Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30985	There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. The title above the member and Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 24 in which I request that the title and text of Article 24 be deleted. We believe that the ministry has sufficient opportunities to carry out all the tasks provided for in Article 18 of this Law, and that there is no reason for some of the powers that have worked so far, which the ministry has carried over, as the government says here in its explanation for professionalisation in the field of education and education, to transfer to these various centres. We have also made a lot of criticism on the proposals to set up various agencies. It remained that the government practically all the jobs carried out under one ministry were transferred to various commissions, councils, agencies, centres. The question here is whether it is possible in one area to transfer this part of the ministry's competence to some of the bodies set up by the government. We feel that there is no need to overdo it, no need to run at all costs for other people's experiences, and that in some things it is necessary to keep that old concept that was once and did not leave this important area of control over some other bodies that are not part of the ministry. We ask that the title and article 24 be deleted. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30987	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the title above the members and Article 25 of the amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does he want a word? (There is no applicant present for the amendment. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above the members and Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Dragan Colic, who submits the amendment to Article 26 and to the title above Article 26. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30988	In front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the basis of an education and education system requiring the title above Article 26 and Article 26 to be deleted. Article 26. refers to the Centre for Education of Persons who need special social support. In Article 18, the ministry also has the capacity to deal with operations that are specified. The Serbian Radical Party is in principle against forming a centre, and there has been a lot of talk about it in previous amendments to Serbian Radical Party MPs. We believe that centres are unnecessary and with people who would work in them, who would be employed, they would additionally burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and it is so thin, it is about to crack. The sphere of education and education deserves a more serious approach and more serious proposals. In part of his presentation, Minister Knezevic says more serious political parties have nothing against this bill. You dropped one, Mr. Minister. The most serious, strongest, most powerful Serbian Radical Party has argued on everything that makes this bill bad and harmful for young generations. Will the absorption of knowledge apply to all values of Serbian history, traditions, culture? How can we believe the honorable intentions of those who accuse patriots of feeling patriotic? It seems to me that this bill introduces a small door to a new destructive object called anarchy. Is all this on the loose given to the students, and is it all for them, Mr. Minister? Traditional Serbian values have no touch points with your role models, which were your alpha and omega in the making of this law. The school is a serious institution whose foundations should make up verified values. Because of the inhumane policy of your mentors, many countries have tears of many children. Could Western culture understand the classics of Russian and world literature of Fjodor Dostoyevski, who said, "I don't need the happiness of the whole world if the price is an innocent child tear." A poor bill on education and education can bring inconspicuous consequences of education and education and will teach them that all world and European role models are more important than national ones. Mr. Minister, an educated man is the one who, first of all, has the cheek.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30989	The word comes from MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30990	The education of children with certain damages deserves so much attention that what you put into the jurisdiction of this centre is not even a minimum of minimum coverage, related to the overall problem. I guess this is just about that category of kids who need to go to special schools, although there are kids who have some physical damage, who go to regular schools. It will not be covered within this centre. A much bigger problem is how many of these special schools in Serbia we have. For example, I know of a school on Sokoban Street for elementary education, I know of one on Ban's Hill, and I think there's another special school, I don't know exactly where, with the deaf, damaged hearing, impaired vision, in Zemun, one elementary school for adult education. When you say adults, they are these children who have lost their right to regular schooling. I know we have big problems with the conditions they're working on, especially if they're stationary-type facilities. I also know that we don't have or haven't had until recently, how long I've been following this issue, high school or high school for these children in Serbia. That's the problem the Ministry has to deal with when it comes to these kids, to provide good working conditions. I note that none of the schools, so many of our school networks are bad and so little influence that when we try for these children, there were certain local self-governments having a local problem, let's say, they have a big school, there were a lot of kids, and now there's not, kids only go to school before noon, special schools work in bad conditions, and when they have to transfer these kids to this other school to be filled in, it's cheaper and maintenance and heating, there's a certain riot coming up right now, and there's not going to be any kids in those schools. You didn't put that in the jurisdiction of this center, and maybe it shouldn't be. That's a problem for a bigger team to deal with. We should make sure that children who have certain damages, who are not mental in nature and who can follow classes in regular schools, that, above all, are infiltrated into this healthy population, not directed to special education. I'm saying, you're under the jurisdiction of this center, if you want to keep it, we thought it was the Ministry's problem or one department at the Ministry that would only be dealing with these children, you should have put a lot more jurisdiction in this center. Of course, it's not in line with the concept we're up for, but you stick to this. We're trying to draw your attention to what that center should possibly be doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30991	There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. On Article 26, Amandamdn was submitted by the National MP Vera Markovic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The title above the member and article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 27, and it reads, "The title above article 27 and Article 27 are deleted." All the affairs of this member, as well as of each eighth member of the law, are governed by the minister, so that this amendment has a reasonable meaning, and that purpose is to delete this member. Doesn't the minister have so many quality obligations that he has to take care of the work of the council, and probably not because he's the promoter and the idea designer of this law. We Serbian radicals against this law, and probably some other political parties are against it, but they want to be solidarity with this group that proposes this law. The idea of implementing this law lies in the European Union, and probably beyond, somewhere across the ocean. Those ideas are bad. Their desire is to implement this law in our area. When we've got enough parking in this area, then here's the emissary who's going to educate us in their style. We don't want their style without soul or tradition, no history, no real basis for change. We don't want a case in Sremska Mitrovica. This law needs to be corrected, but in our education style, and these are just shades, not this way. He says the minister has made all the thorough preparations and informed the general and professional public, and at that time he was blessed to defend this law in front of this house. That's not true. Isn't it enough for you to comment on the number of amendments that all political parties have submitted? You're sick and mentors of this law. It's a group of Soros and possibly the US Embassy in Belgrade. They promised you donations. The role of these donations is well planned. That's a sign - where they put the dollar they expect ten. Aren't you proposing to change this old schooling system satisfied with yourself today? That's ridiculous. Europe drowned in the bars of its ignorance, and it wants to pass on to our children. Our children have shown a high level of expertise and quality in all world competitions that should be guarded and nurtured. You have commented in this style that decentralisation needs to be carried out, and in fact this law tends to be centralized. You've also commented on some time distance, or some time scale, you've also used a time-accumulated knowledge moment and who knows what else you might suggest here to just honor your employers. There are already visible reactions to this not yet passed law. According to Vojvodina, emissaries from neighbouring Croatia are circulating and presenting this new type of education and education for our children. It will be a difficult comment, since every legal project should be attended by the entire population. I mean my parents. They need to invest some of their energy and resources to get the children on the road. They will be disabled because there are more and more of them who do not produce and who cannot provide a minimum of funding to line up with this famous Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30993	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30994	In Article 27, the minister admitted that the ministry was capable of doing anything the centre did not do. It says nicely here: "The council, or centre responsible for proposing, that is to say, the preparation of sublegal acts brought by the minister, is required to carry out these tasks according to the initiative of the minister or government. If the centre does not prepare the relevant material within the time limit set in Article 2, it will not be delivered to the Minister, the Ministry will prepare the material." So you can replace any center. "The minister's initiative is delivered to the competent council for consideration. If the Council fails to lay down a proposal within the time limit set in Article 5, the minister may adopt a sublegal act without a proposal for a council." Now the question is, in the end, when we've asked to delete all these members who predict the center, what will you advise and centers if they don't do what they're supposed to do and if they don't, then you do it yourself. I see that in article 28, in your responsibilities, you've provided for supervision of the work of institutions and centres, and the facility, I assume you're thinking about schools, and the centers are these. What are the consequences if the center doesn't do what needs to be done? What can you do with them? How do you punish them? To disband them, fire them, I don't know what. The most important thing is that you predict the possibility of them being bold and not doing anything at your request, and they're in the office of the Ministry. The law gives them certain obligations and certain powers. It's just outrageous. No, if you don't, he has to do it if you've predicted him. That's not clear to me, and it gives me this kind of clagort to round this story around these centers. How is it possible that a centre that has specific powers under this law says, I won't do it in that time, or I won't do it to you, or I'm not capable, or it's up to you to like it or not to like it. He must deliver to you what you ask of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30995	The word has the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30996	I have to react. If everyone does their job, the laws shouldn't have a part about sanctions at all. So this is one attempt to maintain a system in function. Article 149 of the law provides for sanctions for the non-execution of the tasks of the centres and other bodies of these centres. So we have a sanction. In addition to sanctions, however, it is necessary to save the system. In order for the system to function, an opportunity has been envisaged for the Ministry to do so. It's a simple thing if people want to read freely...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30997	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 27, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic and Zivodarka Dacin. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word, in front of the applicants for the amendment, MP for the Zivodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30998	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, Mr. Popov, honourable fellow MPs, my colleague Rajko Baralic and I, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment to Article 27, where we are proposing that section 3 and 6. be deleted. I would really not quote these views, but I would say a few arguments in favour of persuasion, and number one, that I cannot accept the argument given by the Government, that the amendment is not accepted, because the functioning of the education and education system must be ensured. For these two attitudes erasing from this one member within the entire system will certainly not affect the functioning of the educational system. If that's the case, I'll withdraw the amendment, and that's not the case. I would say, under number one, these two attitudes simply bother me right from the previous story, where a colleague of Gordana Pop-Lazic is, and you talked about it, too, not to be bound in any way by what the centre should be doing. If the centre doesn't prepare the right material, be careful, the center doesn't make any decisions, so I guess it has an obligation to prepare and pass it on to you and that you decide whether or not to, then why is it written in the law. It's just that it's supposed to be binding, in my opinion, and not that if they don't respect that deadline, then it's going to be the Ministry or the Minister. For me, as a man, it is unacceptable that something which is the obligation of people who are employed here to work, not to respond to that task. Secondly, I think you're opening up a space where a large number of new people will be employed. I have to say, unfortunately, it will be a re-enlargement of the administrative apparatus and there will be additional funding, and we know on the other hand, and more and more is heard in the public that there is a dissatisfaction with profit and education, and in health, and in culture, but we are not talking, because we are talking less and less about it. Third, what you said last week in the opening letter or somewhere when you explained something, which is that part of the funds for the equipment of these centers will be provided by the World Bank through international loans and donations. Or that's how I understood it, and you're probably going to correct me, and you said that those funds are not given out of autruism. Just one question, which is why funds are being given, if that is the initial moment financially so that it can start to work all of this, as further predicted, whether our budget is so exhausted as to bear another burden of financial intrusiveness without simply having to do with these centers. For all of this, I ask the Minister to simply, from this member alone, practically erase those two attitudes and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u30999	The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Professor Bora Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31000	I'm only interested in what we're talking about. The minister tells us he can't be replaced, you see, in Article 10. The government appoints members of the council, so if they do not respond to the Ministry's request, or government, it is the government who will take them down. We license educators, perhaps because of some small matter, we can't change the commission, or the council or the members of that centre because they don't perform their basic duty, which is to inform, they suggest to the Ministry. I don't see any reason, and I don't know why we're not changing this at all. That and this Zeljo, even he doesn't get it. I can tell by the look on his face. (National MP Zeljo Huric, from the scene: I didn't even listen to what you were talking about. Second, if we're about these changes, you see, that's why we're looking. We're not looking for erasing, I didn't say that, misunderstanding, we're not looking for erasing, we're looking for erasing one, or another attitude, the third, or the sixth, to make this member more complete. If the minister can't make sure it's really eliminated from here, then we're clear. It's clear why. Look, we have an art education and education center. If you look at the jobs they do, to encourage artistic education, please, it can at least be encouraged. At least you can encourage, because if they don't have abilities, if they're not genetically defined for some tendencies like any art, it's gonna be hard to help him. Instead of that center, it's far better to form, say, a physical education center. Why not? Our children are very disabled precisely because of the lack and little physical education lessons that are not being held in schools. Like the environmental education center. We want to go to Europe and spit out the window, throw the trash out the window, we want to go to Europe. We can't pass the organic education law, or the environmental law for a few months can't get in line, because it probably doesn't suit someone. This law that is unprepared, which is systemically, can pass, and if it is neither complete nor partial, we only get first grade. What about the other one? We'll see, that's what we agreed last time. Maybe it's better instead of a center for art education, a center for sexual education. Why has sexual education been a taboo topic with us for the last 30 years? It would be more useful for that. That's why we're proposing, which is why we're proposing erasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31001	The line was reported by MP Zeljo Huric. Please explain the basis for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31002	You know, when the debate over this law started, some of us who came from that branch got those first and second drafts of the law. We had insight into the work and writing the text of that law. My esteemed colleague Bora Stanimirovic also, at least from me, got one of those versions, even thinking one of the last. She stayed with him for a long time, and after a few days, he told me the law was great. He even admired that law. That's why I really don't understand Bora Stanimirovic, all the time listening to him, what he's saying now, my dear colleague you're absolutely right, I don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31003	The word has been issued by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, as deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31004	Since the minister referred us to the criminal provisions of Article 149, I have seen these criminal provisions, but imagine the situation, this government thinks that this is how system law, education system should be organised, and these advices and these centres should function. The government changes, this government goes, this minister goes, that structure remains the people in those centers, and now some new government, some new minister won't do what needs to be done, as prescribed by law. They're funded by the state, budgeted by huge money for their work, for their salaries, for the facilities, for the means to work and so on. They simply won't and now they're paying the fine with what money but budget money, from 10,000 to 50,000 and director from 1,000 to 10,000 dinars. We're just being satisfactory. It's not that we're threatening them with sanctions, it's impossible to imagine such a situation, if you're talking about professionalization and if you think it's really supposed to look like that. If these centers are centres for the arrest of various party activists, then we can expect what I was talking about at the beginning and that with the change of government, I hope already in the fall, the elections are here, we heard it from reliable choices, you've been ordered to call the elections and shortly after your vacation, when you return to the election campaign, we will no longer be seen in this composition, but until then some of these centres will start working. If you want them to be professional, then delete this and make them do what they have to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31005	According to the Rules of Procedure, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31006	My colleague Zeljo says I don't touch him anymore. I'm not gonna touch him, but I told him I was thrilled when I looked at this law and I can hardly breathe.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31007	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Nenad Lemajic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31008	Apparently, article 27 caused quite a discussion. The Democratic Party of Serbia also sees something wrong with this article. The minister mentioned it was about saving the system, so if eventually the centers wouldn't do their job, then let's be consistent. It could be introduced to school, let's say if the school doesn't carry out its duties then the Ministry's teaching. I think it's something else. It is likely that the ministry is in a dilemma whether it will manage to form all seven centres within the appropriate deadline and whether they will be put into office. If this really is a problem, a better solution was to put this provision in transitional provisions, rather than define it by law, by basic solutions, because this seems a little funny that one institution, which is defined by Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31009	The word has the Minister of Education, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31010	The amendment of MPs Lemajic, Radulovic, Alexic, Andric, Stamenkovic, which reads in Article 27, paragraph 3, means only attitude 3. The draft law shall be deleted and accepted by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31011	National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31012	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 28, and I have asked for a new point to be inserted that the Ministry is competent to adopt plans and programmes for pre-school, primary and secondary education. There has already been a discussion about this member in principle. Mr. Minister went out for a pay phone and said the Ministry controls curricula and programmes of 10%-30%, relatively high education, whether it's first grade, fifth, seventh, ninth, etc. However, nowhere in the laws itself, such an option is given to the minister, not even to the ministry, but to leave the possibility of teaching programs working on the principle that the founder is implementing some kind of programme. I'd like to draw attention to Mr. Secretary that they've been going around school programs for the past few years, even wars. Albanian separatists in Kosovo have asked that such a law be passed so that they can meet their Albanian thesis in their schools. A similar requirement was recently, a few years ago in Macedonia, and therefore a war was waged, due to school programmes, primary and secondary education. We now leave the possibility that I am the founder of a real program, the Ministry has no right to interfere with us and this amendment has been rejected by reason that it is not in the concept of the law itself. The question arises in whose concept this law is, is it to say, in Soroshe's concept, because I'm surprised that everything that has the sound of the national government fears it. Let me tell you how dangerous it is that even certain authorities of local self-government are against the law and against constitutional decisions to make the official language the language of religious minorities, who want to portray themselves as national, and now imagine that such a law of such locals, localities, quasi representatives of the people, wants to be implemented in schools. If one such law had been in force for 15 years, I believe that Serbia today would be the size of Belgrade's pasture.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31013	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31014	I would only in favour of this amendment to Article 18, and I would point out that these advices, which you have foreseen, are three councils that propose programmes, pre-school, primary and secondary education plans. So you don't adopt them and you don't bring them, and Article 70 provides that the school program brings them in line with the general basics of the school program, the special foundations of the school program. These general and special basics of the school programme are brought by these commissions and centres, and the school is free to bring its school programme, if that is the case. If it doesn't apply, because you really don't like the concept of the law, then I ask you who brings the plan and the program. We've seen that commissions don't bring, centres don't bring, and where the Ministry is in all of this and who's going to answer for us for what kind of school program it is. We can't call that advice. They're working on the contract, you said academically, the hour is here, the hour isn't here, the variable is, one came, the other came. The centers are supposed to be professionalized, they have their own director, they don't have this in their jurisdiction, and the minister's nowhere to be found. Come on, there's no minister, there's no ministry. The minister is a variable category and can fall any bottom, but the government is there, the ministry exists within the government and would have to establish a plan and programme, given the basic interests of education. When we say national interests, we really don't think that we should put education under the hat of those who give donations, because those who want to rule us want to rule education first. It's such a tried-out recipe. In Japan and today, Americans approve of the textbooks their children will learn from. They've been working with them since World War II, and that's why the Japanese themselves, the Hiroshites, must not plead as they should, but as the Americans will. Don't laugh, these are serious things. Someone has to be extremely responsible, someone has to comply with the basic interests of the long-term, established in our country to adopt these plans and programmes. To us, literature is the most important, is history the most important, because it creates that identity, but it keeps us, I mean all other subjects of natural science, languages, but it has to be searched and examined, that we don't happen to have a lesson in the French language textbook that points us to Satanists and something like that. That lesson has to be done in a dotted way to be affirmative and positive to the child, not to be painted by witches and witches, Harry Potter, and I don't know what. There's a lot of better characters for all of this, and even the names when they're given to them, it's all nakarad. We want the responsibility of the government and the Ministry of Programmes, and not some of those college bodies, such as advice and commissions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31015	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic submitted the 28th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's MP Nenad Lemajic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31016	This amendment is consequent and stems from our amendments to Articles 10, 12 and 13. It reflects the fundamental differences in the DSS concept and the current ministry's concept of education reform and education planning. We believe that the National Educational Council should take responsibility for the pedagogical aspect of the reform, and that the Ministry should take care of all other aspects and in this regard this amendment is given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31017	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Member of the People's Parliament Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31018	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32. In its second position, the republic, or autonomous province, can establish a special institution, a training facility, which is a teaching base of the university, in accordance with this special law. What's characteristic, that's an explanation why the amendment was rejected. The text of the reasoning states - the amendment should not be accepted because it is not in line with the concept of the bill, which includes improving the quality of teaching staff. This isn't about teaching. This is about workouts that are prepared for teaching outside of the regular program. These exercises, I think, are unnecessary because the programme already provides for exercises at universities or high schools, especially when we have in mind and what happened in the near past, I want to remind myself of the events in a similar practice room in Sremska Mitrovica, where the young people in that exercise room were prepared to do various activities, which certainly do not fit into some teaching or some education program, and where these young people, when they leave such a camp, or some exercise room, remain with some permanent psychic consequences when they return to reality. I think those gyms, coming out of the classrooms, are very harmful. Special attention should be paid to various institutions, centres. A few days ago, we had an uneasy event that no one had responded to. The Ministry of Education did not react, the Hungarian parties did not react, that a monument to Stevana Sremac was destroyed in Senta at the opening of the cultural centre. The destruction of Stevana Sremac's monument by young people who joined Hungary's cultural centre in Senta is also proof of what kind of culture it is, evidence of how much education and youth education are being followed, evidence that everything is being organised, something that comes out of the system, is more in the function of harming this country and is more in the function of manipulating young people by individual policies, parties, and that I am not talking about some people who are more prone to separatism or secession from this country than they want Serbia and the citizens of Serbia at all. When it comes to these exercises, it is actually an opportunity to create institutions that will serve individuals, or daily policies, to implement some of their ideas. It will certainly be here, so it is written, in an autonomous province, and it can only come out of Serbia's education system to serve individual crazy autonomists to implement some of their political ideas.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31019	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31020	Article 32(1) is absolutely clear who can be the founder of the institution of Article 30, so kindergarten, primary, secondary school, but attitude 2 is so vague, and there is nothing in the explanation that points to what this should mean, that we, first of all, have sought to erase this attitude. If we could get an explanation of what the promoter wanted with these gyms, connecting them to the university, or some preparation for the university, or a teaching base for the university, something is. But we'd do well to know, and if it's about the university, then what's going to happen in a system of education related to primary and secondary education. Even if this is what I suspected it was, I don't think he belongs in this law. We shouldn't mix grandmothers and frogs. Let's go to the University Law and stay here only at preschools, elementary school and high school.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31021	The word has been made by the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31022	Seeing as there may be some misunderstandings, I'll try to be very brief. First, let me say that, like any other political party presented in the assembly, the Serbian Radical Party was invited by the Ministry and that we were prepared to give you all the explanations. No one came, it's your legitimate right. (It is heard that Natasha Jovanovic is being thrown, but she does not understand. I'm not responsible for that. This is about gyms. So this is about trying in a practical way to get students from teaching schools to get first touch and contact with students. The idea is in the following, to determine one school, completely average, not elite, and that it is actually given to a university where then students of physics and chemistry and other teaching schools, philology and philosophy will teach these students, and in that sense it is a teaching base. So they would do it under the mentorship of teachers. It would be a regular school where teaching would continue, only to be a teaching base for those students, where they would hold classes in the presence of a mentor, an experienced professor who would lead that class.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31023	The replica was reported by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, and then by MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31024	Don't you think, Mr. Minister, that in that case the children of that school would be guinea pigs, wouldn't it be much better than it was so far that the teaching base would be all over Serbia? First, you cannot find a specific mediocre school because it is not the same school in Belgrade, schools in Babusnica and schools in Nis, or schools in Subotica. All those who need to dress for this beautiful invitation, all the doors of all schools have been open and so far, and now you are predicting this bill of mentors for trainees, for example, who will be as trainees employees, teachers and teaching staff in schools. Let them then, throughout Serbia, wherever you have a school, a university, and we have more universities in Serbia, not everyone has to go to one, or you think that at each university center you form one of these gyms, and I guess so, because there's an autonomous province here as a founder, and that's not good. Each school is specific, a village for itself, a city for itself, depending on the composition of the population. Let all those people who want to work, so they can get into any school, not that one school is a guinea pig for all of it. You know what, it's not the same when an experienced professor teaches a lesson or when another student comes every week and teaches you, and the mentor stands by and possibly adds something. Then they don't use the working criteria, or the grading criteria, or anything. Now I don't understand anything, you're laughing, but I'm telling you, you can invite us as much as you want to go to the government to tell us anything, we'll never come to you, because we don't need to come to your feet, but you can call on our feet, except that you send us here in writing and what you say here, because your living word is your treatment with us and that means something to us. Otherwise, if we get to the government, you're gonna have to run through some door, I know that there's both the main one and the side one from the main entrance. Therefore, they have nothing to ask in government, which is most normal, if one MP came down, means he would come to put pressure on the minister, and that should be prohibited by law, but that is why the minister would have to come whenever the assembly called him or asked something.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31025	The word was also reported by the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Professor Bora Stanimirovic. I beg you, this is about an amendment to Article 32. Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31026	Now it's undeniable because you don't know the technology of the job anymore. It bothers me more that he's the university's teaching base, I should-- college. I said teaching last time, but my colleagues disagreed, because some colleges that prepare teachers don't feel like they're teachers, because they're preparing for other professions. That's where we agree, but instead of the university, I'd put it - college. If it comes from the concept of a new law, where colleges won't have legal personality, then they can, but we haven't passed that law yet and we probably won't adopt it yet. That's why it's better that instead of teaching, it's better to be a college, not a university. As far as practice goes, it's different from college to college. It is one practice of the Faculty of Philology, and it is certain that this elementary school will be in Belgrade, i.e. in places where there are certain colleges, whether teaching, whether philosophical, philosophical etc. However, they have fewer schools and they need one elementary and one secondary school in the city to carry out professional practice, because according to their curricula and programmes, they do not have a large range of practice classes. The problem is only teaching colleges that are almost four years old, 90 percent of teaching is professional practice. Here comes the problem we heard, one school can't meet the need to be a gym, because then really those kids will be too burdened, they'll keep practicing, and it turns out that that teacher, that teacher, he won't be able to teach his class, he'll be doing it by the students. That's why we took five, six or seven elementary schools at school in Serbia, and then in agreement with the directors, we perform this professional practice. So I just wanted to repeat that you know that it's not the same professional practice, so it means to organise a practice for colleges like philosophical, philosophical and other, teaching or not, anyway, because they don't have too much practice in their programs. They hold an hour or not, but students of teaching schools who have the most psychological, pedagogical and methodical knowledge, they are obliged to take from all methods, and have six, give three practical lectures, so times how many students, you see that they keep professional practice all year round. I think for these students, these colleges need to organize practice or practice schools in several schools in cities where these universities are located.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31027	Does anyone else report from the authorised representatives to article 32, submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirovic and Zarko Obradovic, who was spoken of by MP Bora Stanimirovic? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Golub Rajic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP on behalf of the applicants for the amendment, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31028	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on the proposal for a law on the foundations of education and education sites submitted to the Serbian Parliament at the request of 86 DOS MPs in front of the SPS parliamentary group with a colleague, MP Radojko Petric, on Article 34, I submitted an amendment where we proposed that the positions of the 3rd and 4th were deleted. It is argued that all the necessary conditions for the establishment of the start of work and the exercise of the work provided for in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article. The space, equipment, teaching means, teachers, educators and professional associates in paragraph 3 and the means of establishment and operation provided are the conditions already contained in paragraphs 1 and 2, and in point 5 where the provision of hygiene technical conditions is sought, in accordance with the law and regulations governing this area is required. If these additional conditions are introduced because of a liberal attitude towards founders, above all other legal persons or natural persons, where they, in addition to the spatial and personal conditions so far sought, must propose and present their programme to the Ministry, where they would be accredited in the position of the 4th member closer to the conditions laid down by the Minister, and this is unnecessary, because under this bill, the founders of private schools will have to, when establishing the delivery of a bank guarantee to prove that they have enough money and resources and a three-year cycle of education and thus prove that they are financially serious enough to invest in our education system. I propose that this amendment be accepted and this article be clearer, and the question is how much will we satisfy the foreigners and European standards with the protection of our own education system and ensure the safety of citizens, as the government says in an explanation for the refusal of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31029	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlasimir Budimovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Vlasimir Budimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31030	I just feel sorry for Mr. Shuvar, for not having had such a comprehensive and specific and professional discussion of a law that should represent our reform in its own time. I'm really glad, again, to point out that I've experienced this law entering a procedure full of hope that it will give truly extraordinary results. I would ask the Secretary of Parliament to withdraw the proposed amendments to Articles 37, 60 and 108 and 124 because I am satisfied with the reasons for the rejection of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31031	National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31032	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 39 refers to a ban on the work of an institution, i.e. schools, other institutions treated by this law. This member, as he's been formulated here, is quite confusing and rather vague. I will specify several arguments that confirm this, and the amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party is going towards and towards bringing this member in order, to be more precise and clear. This Article states that where the competent authority for the performance of the professional-pedagogical supervision tasks determines an irregularity in the work of the institution, that the institution does not carry out its work in a regulated manner, and in the event of termination of work, that the time limit for the fulfilment of the conditions of the institutions is set. It's a little unclear here that in the event of a halt of work, we need to intervene in this way, if we know that the workers are also in education, that they have the right to suspend work, it's in the law there that it's a minimum of process. But, gentlemen, you've been using maximum termination. Total termination of work in the previous period. You have used, abused workers in education, teachers, teachers, etc., and now you are trying to ban and try to stop teachers and teachers. The second point is that if the institution, the founder of which is the Republic, province or local self-government, does not act on the order of the first position, in which case the ministry takes the lead, and that the ministry may, in that case, prohibit the work of the institution or take the following measures. This is purely confusing and vague. How to prohibit the work of an institution, or predict the following measures. I guess you should say first, if these conditions don't meet, the ministry will take measures, so it will replace the director, so it will remove the managing authority, and then ban if it gets back together again, ban the work of the institution. (Gasho Knezevic, from the scene: Previously on Action, and then he can.) ) It is not precise if it is stated that the ministry prohibits the work of the institution or previously takes measures. It's standing here or something. As soon as it's "or," it means either one or the other. That means the ministry can immediately ban the work of the facility, not necessarily. It's right here. It is not possible to leave that possibility or one or the other, to specify precisely and clearly the order of activities to be carried out by the ministry in order to make this all neat.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31033	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. This would end the morning session. The first speaker after the break will be the folk ambassador of Gordan Pop-Lazic. One notice. Today, on Tuesday 10 June 2003, starting at 14.00 hours, a presentation of the tourism law proposal will be held in the Bureau's hall. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15,50]] Dear fellow Members of the People, please, to determine the quorum for the start of the afternoon session, insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I figure we have a quorum and we can start working. In the morning session, the last amendment we had discussed was an amendment to Article 39, which was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The first speaker in the afternoon session, on the amendment to Article 39, is MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31035	Article 39 concerns the ban on the work of an institution, is referred to as school institutions, and is prescribed in paragraph 1 which are cases and which exercise control. In Section 2: "The Ministry prohibits the work of the Constitutionals or previously takes the following measures". This is to the extent that it is incorrectly stated, that it leaves the Ministry the discretionary right to decide whether to prohibit the work or to prejudge the Director and appoint the performer, relieve the responsibilities of the managing authority and appoint a temporary managing authority. Now the question is who is to blame for all this that has led to the ban on the work of the facility. Whether it's always about the director and the managing authority or whether it's some basic things that don't depend on him, such as basic sanitary -- technical conditions that can keep the school closed. It shouldn't be within the legal norm that there's this kind of discretion and this alternative, because that's what's causing the confusion. In some ways, cases should be separated when compulsory school is closed, work is banned, and when these measures are taken, because they exclude each other. You prohibit work for a while, until some shortcomings are resolved and the school is allowed to work again, and if you take these measures, you have just suspended the managing authorities, brought the director to your will, the temporary managing body and the school continues to work with the same shortcomings that exist, leaving a certain deadline to remove these shortcomings for a year at the most. The question is, can you do it in a year? Your discretion may need to remain, but normally - legally speaking, it's not good that this is done. We think it was necessary to separate cases where work is compulsory, and when it is possible to remove shortcomings and then take those measures concerning the resolution of directors and management bodies
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31036	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragica Radulović, Milos Lukic, Đuro Popovic and Adam Urosevic submitted the 39th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Branislav Vakic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Branislav Vakic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of this amendment, which I am on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, has been to specify that, in the event of school termination, the students of the school that are abolished have the right to complete their initial education, i.e. education at the second nearest school. The text offered by the Government does not mention "the nearest school". This amendment would force the government to seriously consider the reasons for abolishing the institution. The facility can only be abolished if students have conditions to continue normal education. It must not be allowed for the government to abolish schools and children, for the purpose of completing education, to send them to remote places. Their parents will not be able to bear the costs incurred in this way and this will lead to school leaving. Maybe that's the goal of the DOS government. The Serbian Radical Party has consistently advocated free education that would be available to the largest number of young people. We also advocate the best conditions of schooling in public schools. That is why I have submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and I ask the MPs to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31038	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the members and on the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the promoter want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the member and article of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I use my discretionary right, as a People's MP, to submit an amendment to this law on the basic system of education and education. Of course, that discretionary right I got from the SRS parliamentary group. I have an amendment to Article 42, which refers to other organisations, i.e. this article discusses the work of preschool education and education. It is said in this article that other organisations, or individuals, can do these tasks. According to us, SRS MPs, this would not be good if it were in law, that is, even worse, if it were to be implemented, because we know that DOS government is ever law enforcement, where there is the possibility of eradicating everything that is valuable, which in the people is insulted as the basic element of culture and raising our children. For this reason, I have seen through this article the intention that this point in this law could be avoided so that our children can gain such education in preschool education, which will lead to a completely wrong path and that our history will forget and teach that DOS history of October 5th, which they only recognize. Dositej Obradović and Jovan Dučić and Čika Jova Dragon will also be forgotten, and here we have heard from the MPs and this is an argument and proof that this will happen and that this law will apply to Uncle Gaša. For these reasons, I believe that this article can be stolen from another great danger to our generations, which are sects, which will enter the small door. We know what kind of danger our family is threatened with, above all, by sects that have erupted throughout Serbia. I've got a lot of examples, but in this short time, I won't be able to make it out. I can tell you that in the Western-Bačka district there is the northernmost monastery, the old Serbian monastery of Byzantine style, St. Archdeacon Stefan...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31040	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31041	... The sects that tried to rebuild it, which happened in 1997-1998, that as the Damn Jerina, while the builders were building, the sectarians were destroying. That's why they got the blessing of local self-government, and local self-government is the same today, the then coalition "Together", and now DOS and nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31042	Please take care of the weather. It's already the fourth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31043	I'm just finishing up. Therefore, I suggest that this member be deleted and that we allow our preschool children to be raised in the spirit of patriarchal principles, as previously done.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31044	Are any of the authorized representatives still answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31045	I would also like to draw attention to the MPs and the Government's representative on the danger of the survival of members 41 and 42, although the minister will probably convince us that the natural persons and other organisations or institutions established by foreigners and by a foreign accredited programme will be accredited here in the country, or accepted by the minister, controlled and thus harmless. However, the attitude of the SRS is that we should not allow such a thing, because there is a danger of abuse. In Article 42, where another organisation is expected to mean any association of citizens or non-governmental organisations or any natural person can carry out pre-school education activities and achieve accredited specific programmes of pre-school education and education, if it meets the prescribed standards for the implementation of specific programmes and receives the approval of the Ministry. We don't know what criteria the Ministry will be. It remains to trust the Minister to take care of everything, and we do not want to believe, it is ours to suspect, not just this minister, but anyone else. Paragraph 2 otherwise states that the standards set out in Article 1 of this Article and the standards of knowledge, skills and competences for accreditation of programmes, professional training and training are prescribed by the minister. It'll be some sublegal act. We're not adopting him here. So, we're so blancuously accepting that any association, including this one that would be devastating, has devastating goals and can establish a preschool facility. As for article 41, I'm going to take a quick look around, I didn't want to go out, because it's related to article 42 that the institution can establish a foreign legal or physical person and that's according to their program. So, which is not passed under this law, if the programme is accredited abroad and if it meets the conditions laid down in Article 34(3) to (5) which are space, equipment, resources, hygiene and technical conditions and if it has a guarantee at the bank. They're irrelevant things when it comes to, they're irrelevant, they may be important, but they're not important when it comes to education. I don't know what this is or who we're going to meet by having kids here teach a school on foreign programs. Please, there's a great danger, because we need to know where we are and where we live. Is this one in America? They won't and they won't allow it ever. They will not allow learning in a different language if they have a problem of national minorities much greater than we have the problem. We can do anything, and then we'll meet in wonder what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31046	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31047	I'm most afraid for this Sanjay part of what will be, and especially when this amendment of Mr. Shandor is adopted, which I think is essentially changing things. If our children are forced to say, they learn school in Bosniak, I don't know what it's going to look like, and what kind of identification they're going to have, whether they're going to feel like to Bosniaks, Serbs, and they're going to speak the same language that we understand perfectly, both historically and scientifically, we can't prove that they're some other people, and they're coming from Mars, but they're born there and the Serbs are, and we know that...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31048	Please take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31049	... I guess that's how much we know how that happened. Now we're filtered here by some non-existent national minorities. That's what's gonna happen to the Montenegrins. This is where they're gonna start our school, please, in Montenegrin, so we're gonna act crazy here in the country. We need to make sure it's a precise legal norm and know what we want.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31050	Please really take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31051	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31052	The word is made by Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31053	I'll only talk about article 42, because we're done with article 41. Article 42 legalizes the situation that already exists. It's about the Law on Social Care for Children who allow factory halls and similar ones to be set up by preschool institutions. For the first time, standards are set, but they are only such institutions and they are courses for vocational education. So welding courses, shorts and something like that. They are brought by the Minister on a proposal from the Council for Professional Education, meaning Article 15. It's a perfectly clean thing, there's no possibility of foreign interference and any influence on the cross of the Schneider and the Welder. Of course, the Council will propose to the Minister, and in addition, the Law on Social Care for Children allows for the establishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31054	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31055	Mrs. Pop-Lazic mentioned me, so I have something right to say. What I wrote as an amendment, and I think it's very good to accept, they say in the National Minority Rights Act. Secondly, the Serbian, Serbian Croatian, Croatian, Bosniak, etc. That thing was solved the moment the ex-SFRJ succession was over. I didn't say Bosnian, because it doesn't exist, there's a neo-Stachland standard of an Ekva and a Jewish excuse, and we can't argue with a group of people of Islamic religion, and probably of Slovenian origin to call themselves what they want to call themselves. That's the basic thing. There is, obviously, if you've seen Mirza Idrizovic's film "The smell of the dunes". This "Smelt of the Dunja" is a difference that distinguishes the Slovenian Catholic, or Orthodox religions from the Slovenian Islamic religion. This is obviously where the Balkans are going in the direction of fragmentation and because of the problems that the Southern Slovenian peoples have with each other because of the multiculturality of two letters and what we defacto call a new school standard in science, and everyone calls their own name as they think, that is, I mean, just an advantage, not a flaw. Therefore, all those who are a national minority, who are a classical minority, a national minority in the right sense of words, should not suffer the consequences. So, I also think that for those of us, let's say Bosniaks, who call themselves that and they fought for it, and that's what Mr. Kostunica said a year ago and a few days ago for the first time, so university, etc. and I don't see what's controversial about it, it needs to be possible to learn something different from the Serbian Orthodox in their own language and from their own national tradition. I don't see anything going on here. So all I wrote was in that direction and it solves that dispute, which it doesn't have.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31056	Right on the line, Mr. Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31057	I've still asked all those present on the Education Committee that, when it comes to this law, we're missing some ideological, national and other burdens. Unfortunately, that hasn't been avoided. It hit me very hard, and I was just trying to get those who are from education to be there in the name of education, and not on behalf of my nation or, say, parties. However, we can see that people have become unnecessarily entrenched, quite needlessly giving an interpretation of a member, who is obviously not how you understood him. I'm not personally burdened by it. I'm very happy that the language I speak is no barrier to me, at least when it comes to communication with the majority. Whether my language will be called Bosniak, Serbian, one or the other, if it means something to someone, let them call it that. My tongue is what I speak. I can tell you that in my house my children speak more German than Serbian, because there are children watching cartoons, they learned that language, and I don't mind that at all. I'd like something like that to be amongst us adults.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31058	The right to the replica of Gordana Pop-Lazic, to present the minister of Gaza Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31059	Mr. Minister, it's okay that you said about business organisations, about stock companies, about banks, I don't know what kind of organisations they can be, that they need to start pre-school institutions, and Article 42 applies only to pre-school institutions, but you didn't define it that way, that this can't produce what we're afraid of, that various NGOs, different sects are not the founders of pre-school institutions. That's what we're afraid of, and that's what we had to avoid, even if we're here precisely by the Company Act, counting who it could be. You know, it can also be a physical member of a cult or a member of an NGO. We can't ban natural persons from setting up preschools. It's a matter of one who gives credentials, keeping a strict mind and controlling what is done, whether there's abuse and all that. I know that in post-supervision you can also determine that you are taking care of it, but when you're giving a legal standard, don't be so wide if you know it's threatening the danger, but narrow it down a little bit or give some specific person that we know what it's about. Secondly, I apologize to anyone who misunderstood me. We can feel whatever we want. Brother Zeljo, for me you are a Serb Muslim religion and I treat you like this, I see and experience you. The truth is one thing, science has proven that truth, and there's nothing to argue about. I respect you as a Serb brother, and you respect me as you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31060	The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that Brother Zeljo is expecting some political progress in his party as soon as he says this about a political speaker. In Article 43, paragraphs 1 and 3 are deleted. The amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the concept of the bill. Apparently a new education and education system aims to create a flexible and modern education system. The Ministry of Education has chosen a concept of a new education system, which co-ordinates with a new demand for democratic society, European integration, quality, professional and efficient education with the aim of approaching the European Union and UNICEF. The desire is for this new system to implement decentralisation, democratisation and professionalisation of the education and management system. However, the current Ministry wants and tries to centralise the education system, because this has just been demonstrated in this Article 43., where the Ministry wants to run a register of institutions that carry out the work of education and education, as well as the expanded work of other organisations and natural persons performing jobs in pre-school education and education or achieving business programs of vocational training or training. The contents and methods of keeping the register are prescribed by the Minister. You see here the minister wants to put everything under his jurisdiction, or the Ministry. In the field of education and education, higher autonomy is given to institutions and the responsibility of the institution for the safety of children and pupils is determined. So this article shows that it wants institutions to be given greater autonomy, and in fact, the Ministry is choking that autonomy. Secondly, what is very important is that, as my party colleague Steva Kesejic said in the previous exhibition, it is in fact that we Serbian radicals are afraid that these preschool or school institutions are not being used through sects. You know how much evil they've done in the past, and you know how bad they've done in this period. So it's very important that this member actually restricts the work of these institutions, or those natural persons, that would organize the work of these institutions tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31062	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic. I would ask the MPs and authorized representatives to take care of the weather, which has been brought and established by this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31063	We'll take care of the weather, but it's Sinisha's fault that he shortened our time of debate for three minutes and it's really hard in three minutes to say everything and convince the MPs of what we stand for. That's why Sinisha's gonna get hurt in the next election, but good. In fact, Article 44 treats those areas where pre-school institutions are completely autonomous and since they are in fashion decentralisation, sometimes under the notion of decentralisation, we also mean regionalisation, autonomy, we have mixed it all up by wanting to remove as much responsibilities from the centre of the state as possible, so that no one will object that everything is in Belgrade, that all of this is in the government, but everyone can lead their policies and then come into a situation where we have anarchy. We have anarchy, if we allow every institution to have its own education and education program. We really don't think that's good, that maybe it's the only thing that should be unique in the territory of the whole country. If I have misunderstood this, it will not be so, since we have some basics established at the level of the government, that is, by this council proposed by the Minister, we leave here every school, or school, every kindergarten, that I am establishing a programme of education and education. It was only in the context of the whole law that I realized it was the case. By the way, first glance, if it wasn't for the follow-up to talk about the institution's annual work programme, I'd think that's what that's all about. I can understand that each school has its own pace, when a vacation, which will be a working Saturday, which is unworkable and similar, but that each school has its own education and education programme, the Serbian Radical Party will explicitly oppose it, because it will not lead us to the fact that we have some minimum in common at a certain level of education. There's a transfer from one school to another school. How do we determine the criteria of knowledge? Will there be any problem when children move from one school to another? We now have these problems depending on the criteria that are being nurtured in a school, so some are prestigious, and imagine when you give this opportunity and there are extremely ambitious schools, so these schools will stay with one class and the children will run to another school, where they will be able to work according to more normal programs. I don't know if the norm itself is precise and if I've got it right, but if this is how it's written, that every institution has its own education and education program, I think it's an absolute mistake, and that maybe it's the biggest flaw of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31064	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31065	I have submitted an amendment to Article 34. The bill, which refers to the autonomy of the institution. I asked for the first attitude to be deleted from the words "edit education and education programs". This law, which we from the Serbian Radical Party think is a very bad law, will not be much improved by all amendments, that you have adopted all of our amendments. However, these words, "the education and education programmes", if they remain in this text in this article, will give great opportunities to manipulate certain institutions. It will happen that certain institutions, which cover certain regions, will not listen and have no obligation to listen to the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is responsible for the Republic's education and education programme being unique, will alienate itself from the centre where education policy is created in one country and will be able to create specific programmes that will not be identical in the entire territory of the state. This member, if he stays in this text, is the best indication that the educational system in the Republic will not be unique. In addition to making big differences in the education system, because institutions will finance themselves from local self-government income, and then those municipalities that have larger budgets and more resources will provide more opportunities for students, where institutions will be more equipped, hence the educational and teaching staff will be more stimulated to work, these children will have far better working conditions, and even if we add that certain institutions will give themselves the freedom to choose even more programs, then we will come to a paradoxical situation that the student who comes from the Pcinj County and the student who finishes school in Belgrade did not work on the same programme, did not have the same educational means and could not absorb or learn as much as planned for that school or for that age. Mr. Minister, I don't think that you, in these two and a half years, haven't even done the basic job, which is within the scope of your ministry. I can give you 20 examples of schools from the Pcinj County, where we don't even have school directors to this day. For the fourth time, for the fifth time, competitions and elected candidates are repeated or your ministry's consent is denied... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... So it all happens to be in some kind of V.D. condition. In two-and-a-half years, we haven't been able to set up school directors, and you've got so much strength and knowledge to change the education program. I'd like you to pay attention to this member. This member can cause any political consequences, not just in the education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31066	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31067	We MPs only today, on the third day of the debate on the draft law on education and education, have received the opinion of the Government. I did not expect any opinion on all amendments, nor on Article 47, to be different, but now there is no Mrs. Micic, and Mr. Maravić knows that this is not an offensive word and expression. It doesn't matter what this explanation is. You know what our people say. It doesn't hurt. What I am on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group is proposing something that should further prevent child abuse for political purposes, schools and make it possible for people who have been educated and who are doing their job in primary, secondary school, to do it normally. However, I don't think this declarative commitment to ban discrimination and party organisation in schools, which is provided for by Article 47, will improve the overall situation, while we have such a society and while we have such a political system and such political tensions. First of all, because of the fact that you may know, and first of all, you should know, as well as your closest associates, that, as with our judiciary, it is the same in schooling, in all the cities in Serbia, as well as in Kragujevac, local domicile furniture, sometimes late at night, bigger and performs staff selection for individual places, and especially when it comes to primary and secondary school directors in Kragujevac. He won't be able to help any members of the law, not even this one, but I think it would be much better, in that preventive sense, to at least be a warning to those who will dare to continue doing such a thing, to replace the point in point 2 with a comma and add the text: "manipulation of children for political purposes". Especially because in the MPs' benches, in this assembly, several rows behind you are sitting MPs or MPs, as they like to be called, who have hardly manipulated children for political purposes. This is what happens today, and in Kragujevac First and Second High School, especially this child manipulation was expressed during that illegal and anti-constitutional emergency. We are today faced, we who have been pushing against it since the beginning of our political engagement, especially in the Serbian Radical Party, to face one fact, that after 50 years of communist dictatorship, indoctrination, and that is the second in a row of evil, because this mondialysis that your American friends are conducting is the third in that graduation of evil, after fascism and totalitarian communist politics...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31068	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31069	Here, I end up, it wouldn't surprise me at all how certain teachers from individual dossal parties behave to propose to you as part of the overall reform, that instead of, these are neocommunists today in the authorities that are your listeners in schools, that instead of that famous Tito-Revolution-Peace contest, the DOS reform contest is being organised and you can be sure, especially when it comes to this last segment, that all children from preschool to high school age would be perfectly answering these questions and they would know why we were so failed under your authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31070	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31071	I believe that the promoter had in mind everything that was happening to the children of political inexperiences in the time of October 5th of here when such a member predicted, only I am not really satisfied with the criminal provisions that are very mild and concern penalties for the institution from ten to fifty thousand and for the responsible person, or for the director of thousands of dinars to ten thousand dinars. For something like this, as provided for in Article 47, they should be significantly more drastic punishments, moving away practically from education, those who are willing to do something like this. I want to remind you whether it was protected or not, whether it was protected or not, I want to tell you how harassed my child was at school, beaten by five boys, five teachers passed through the yard, saw what was going on and didn't react. I had a hard time getting her into another school. And I'm not surprised that since October 5th, these standards have been in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31072	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Education has submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is the promoter answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31073	The SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 54 by proposing to the Assembly that in Article 54 paragraph 3: "the highlighted" is replaced by the word "chosen". What does that mean - prominent? This is unclear. We mean that people are equal, which are criteria and criteria who will now determine, which faces will be highlighted, from which parties these parties will be, because if they are from one party, then they will all be highlighted, and from the other they can be academics and they are not highlighted. Therefore, the SRS proposes to change this word with the word "chosen". Also, we in the SRS feel that Article 54 should be deleted. The bill is proposed because the proposal proposes for secondary schools of special interest for the Republic and unique school. We Serbian radicals believe that all schools in Serbia are of special interest. We don't consider it of particular interest music school itself. For me, it would be primarily high school of particular interest for the state, if it were a agricultural school, if it were high school textiles, so those schools in which Serbian citizens are particularly interested in this country and are of great importance. So, if it's said that these are unique schools of particular interest, in the past we've had working organizations and enterprises of particular interest, so they've been determined by individuals on both local and regional and federal level, as they're comfortable with it. That is why we believe that there is no difference in the school system of the Republic of Serbia and all schools are of particular interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31074	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment with correction was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone on behalf of the promoter answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, Vladimir Garcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31075	Here, I, where am I supposed to include the students according to the Ministry's intensities, but still the minister's not doing well, so the basic question is, where are the intensities? If you are predicting ministers to be in that council there, representatives, you call it Parliament, for me it is a student organisation and we still need to talk about it, but there are students on such important issues, and you are denying the right of these students, it means that they can participate in important issues within the work and life of the school. I think that's where we play double. It's duality. You can't talk about the same approach. I suggested changing the composition of the school board, not according to this, are not, he says, equal, and what does equality mean? Out-of-work representatives have six, enough that a collective cannot make decisions for itself, so it's secure. He's got two parents, he's got two students, he's got two representatives of the social community, so, if we look, most of them are off-duty. I think no matter what concept you had, but if we want student involvement, I'm going to support the intensities and I'll tell you from experience. For a time, since education was changing, we had, whether it was now called a working council or how, not the most important, but the students were involved in the work, the students were one time involved in the work of the department councils, a student whose representative was present and in the work of the teaching council. This was abandoned, and I can tell you that it was useful, because we could find out and talk evenly, looking at children, given the great number of problems in the young generation, which you can't follow through work, through classes, and through other forms of learning is timely, and of importance to the work and functioning of the school. So my proposals that went are that the students get involved in all the work and life of the school, and I'm really still calling for the students to be given a place, and that's been checked out, so it's not an experiment. It's been checked and turned out at some point well. Now, while the comrades were in power, they did the same thing, they didn't listen to education, and you won't listen to me, what I suggest, probably, but I urge that we children, if we can include these in the advice of both the work and the function of the school boards. You won't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31076	Time. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31078	Mr. Garcevic, it is noble to let the children manage the school. But school management means making decisions. Decision-making means entering into some legal relations. If that's what a underage kid does, we're where we came from. He can't make a decision and close a deal. The school board is designed as a school management. It's impossible to pass it on to a child. A child cannot bear responsibility. By having the right to participate without making decisions. It's in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31079	We're moving on to the next amendment. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31080	With this amendment, we asked that Article 57 be changed, and in one part, as regards the continuation of our principled position, that institutions dealing with primary and secondary education, preschool education, should not bring in their special school programmes, but should implement and implement the educational programmes brought forward by the minister. This is the first intervention. The second intervention refers to the fact that the Management Board, i.e. the school boards, since they are managing bodies in these educational institutions, should not be a second-degree body for one simple reason that that managing body and all acts, individual legal acts adopted by the director of the institution as a management body, the only legal means to follow is the procedure before a court, and the similar application of the Labour Law, if they are employed in institutions, and the similar application of other regulations and even the Labour Act which does not provide for that type of two-stageness. There are other things here. I'm a little surprised, just before the minister said something quite solid about these representatives of the student parliament. There's no place for the kids to be on the board of directors and the school board. Why? Especially when it comes to elementary school. It is about underage, immature persons who are in the process of education and education, and they are by definition unable to make any decisions, nor to listen, nor to participate in the work. You know, a kid who's 10 years old wonders for some time in court when a relationship between his parents is solved. It's an optional question. This is how we throw kids into something that's an institution. In particular, a student parliament is formed as an institution of immature people. There's something that's working discipline, something that's military discipline, and self-administrative discipline doesn't exist. It's anarchy. There's no room for this to be pushed here. There is one good provision, unlike our parliament that does not have that provision, which is the second position that says "the governance body makes decisions by majority of the votes of the total number of members". So nine members, and the decision takes five. That's a good example. And here's a good example of how we should work in the National Assembly. We in the National Assembly would do this analogy: of nine it takes five to attend, and the decision was made if it voted three. So a third. This is where the minister teaches us to bring our parliament's work together. It's only for a gift. I've got to do a review on article 60. This Article 60 gave a good solution to the minister's consent. I'm afraid this minister will apply. On December 27, 2002, he misapplied. That's exactly what he stands for, and so he removed Professor Vojislav Seselj from his class, and that's what we Serbian radicals will keep telling him, reminding him, which means a complex administrative act, when he comes into force, why the minister shouldn't be nervous when he signs the solutions, and especially not to be nervous if he comes from a scientific council, and unless his colleagues accept the Civil League's initiative to drive a man out of college in the most brutal way. Mr. Minister, this provision will be applied analoguely, and we promise you, to all university professors and all where you ask yourself, and you give consent, just as the Supreme Court of Serbia has resolved, and those judges who cannot sleep peacefully today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31081	Are any of the authorised MPs still answering for a word? We're moving on to the next amendment. National MP Natasa Milojevic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. On behalf of the promoter, is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone want a word in the name of authorized promoters? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic submitted together to the 57th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31082	Dear colleagues, the Democratic Party of Serbia in Article 57 has proposed amending Article 3 to change and to read: "He attends and participates in the work of a student parliament representative and a union representative in an institution without the right to decide". So we suggested that the union also get that opportunity to participate in the work and attend sessions, but without the right to decide. We felt significant that the union had information about the work of the school board, especially when it comes to the competences of the school board. The school board, for example, takes measures to improve working conditions. What is relevant to the union, brings forward a development plan, sets out a proposal for a financial plan for the preparation of the Republic's budget, brings a financial plan to the institution, etc. All of these are things that would naturally be natural for the union to be informed, and we don't think it's enough that we only have three representatives of the school board, but it's also necessary for the direct union to have a representative on the school board.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31083	The word has the Minister of Education, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31084	In fact, two groups have proposed an amendment of a very similar content. One was Ms. Natasa Milojevic, who went only to representative trade unions, and the other group, Lemajic and others, which is representative trade unions and representatives of the student parliament. First, the government accepts the amendment, but here things are meant because the meetings of the school board are open. That's why we didn't go with such a proposal right away, but it might be better to say something better if the government agrees and accepts actually two amendments, but in the form of one because this more complete one is given by the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31085	Is there anyone else on behalf of the authorised representatives reporting for word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The 59th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Bratislav Đuric and Marin Kresic and MP Neda Arneric. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Committee for Education has submitted to Article 59 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dragan Ljubojevic submitted to the 59th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31086	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Member of the 59th defines the jurisdiction, i.e. the choice method and the conditions to be met by the Director of Educational Educational Educational Institutions, means the Director of Schools, the Directors of Schools, the mandate to be elected, the duration of the licence, that is, when the licence is suspended and the conditions for selecting the Director are closer. The SRS has submitted an amendment to this article and to delete the part relating to accredited training programmes to be attended by the directors of the institutions in paragraphs 2 and 2 of this Article. We believe that this part should be thrown out, because it is below each level and demeaning it for the candidate and for the institution in which he acquired education, and also for the institution in which he spent his working period. We agree that he must have some work experience. He insists that he must have a five-year term in field education and education. It's not controversial, but really this accreditation program, or the training program, we find it pointless. The question arises who will implement these programmes, the question is who will issue some certificates on these programmes, when there is already a licence itself. On the other hand, if this is being introduced here and prescribed, why don't we also introduce mandatory medical examinations for the directors of the facility, because you've been very pompous to some other officials, so some ministers haven't published and presented their medical records to the public until today. Why not introduce children’s kindergarten directors, for perhaps children’s kindergarten directors and school heads, or educational - educational institutions, have more importance for a country than ministers and government members do. So, the essence of this amendment is that this part is thrown out, we agree with these other parts, especially that you insist on a license. As long as you insist on the license, I'm undermining it once more, why the accredited training program?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31087	On behalf of the promoter, is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 59th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 59 for the following reasons: Article 59 provides for who can be the principal of kindergartens and the director of eight-year-old schools. The principal of kindergarten says it can be: "teacher, pedagogue or psychologist". We suggest adding "and teacher" to make this member very clear. It is true that for a kindergarten director, a person with a higher education can be chosen. Under higher education, we leave space to interpret to whom it suits. Children's kindergartens and eight-year-old schools have a lot of touch points. Even the bill of this law said it unequivocally. If so, and it is, then why not predict the possibility of being a teacher for a kindergarten director, so is teachers, by the nature of work and educators. In this way, more people would be able to compete, and hence the choice of more qualified people in such a responsible place.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31089	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31090	We're on the Committee, like, clarifying this position, where you can choose a person with a higher education for the director. But it's a wide diapazone. It can also be a lawyer, it can also be an economist, which in practice is inconclusive. The principal of kindergartens can mainly be a pedagogal, psychologist, and we propose a teacher who deals with this problem, because practice has shown that in kindergartens we have many more teachers, or professors of a particular profession, than there are psychologists and educators. Each kindergarten, along with that director, has a psychologist, or educator, who deals with that problem. That is why we need to explain, that this is, instead of "high education", "teacher who has a higher education", or "professor". And this opportunity is going to happen, what's going on and what's going on with the schools. When we adopted amendments to the elementary school law, we left that the director should have a higher education. In practice, however, there have been many schools, I was one of the supporters who asked to be a person with a high school, who did not have an adequate replacement or a person with a higher education, even city schools. There are still few people in the city who can perform this very important function without talking about rural schools. This is so much before kindergartens open in rural areas, and especially now, when we ask that the malts not in every middle we open kindergartens, that it is mandatory for children to attend preschool. Then there will be far more institutions, as well as the need for directors of such a profile, people who have proven themselves in practice in teaching, with little change, passing this exam, or obtaining a license for an educator, can also successfully perform the function of kindergarten director.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31091	The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31092	I just wanted to remind you that when we had on the agenda the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education, then the Government went towards changes towards increasing the education of school directors and then many of the directors who were in those places had higher schools. Simply because of the adoption of these amendments and the additions, they stopped performing those functions because they did not meet the level of education criterion. Now in Article 59, we return to the fact that the director, however, extremely, but that means that if no one from the institution reports to the competition, if they are satisfied with how the existing director performs that function, although there is no more, at this point there is no, but the possibility of being re-applyed to the head of the school is shown by some inconclusiveness of the government. I don't know what the reason for looking for higher education was then, which is why now we're going back to the old school, so we can go back to high school. In Article 59, in the last position, I also don't understand why the minister prescribes everything that is written here, so: closer conditions for the selection of directors, kind of education, standards of knowledge and skills for the director. This is a test which is passed before a certain authority of the administration, such as, for instance, for the work of the state authorities, a test or a judicial examination for the conduct of a lawyer's practice or a judicial examination, however. It is impossible for the minister to prescribe conditions for the selection of directors. They are prescribed by law and remains in the management authority so that he decides which of those who are running, or who are interested in the position to choose. The position of the 10th member of the 59th is completely imprecise, i.e. the minister takes on powers which are unnecessary, since some of these items are already prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31093	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the next amendment to Article 59, which, with correction, together was submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the proposed representative, MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31094	I am a representative of the Socialist People's Party, has a name and a last name and is called and is present in Serbia, so whether or not someone accepts it is a matter of personal conviction. Now I'm going back to this part. I have a few questions, of course, for the minister. How do you think you educate all these directors, in what way, by procedure, if you ask them to pass the exam in advance before they apply for the director. It says here he must have, as it says, mastered that one and that one, I don't know, I don't know, but he has to master a program like that before he chooses. That's the way it is. You know what, see, correct the text, you can correct it. (Gaso Knezevic, from the city: You have transitional provisions. The transitional provisions are not valid, the transitional provisions are no knowledge, they say here what they are. On the other hand, you're going after the licenses, and I'm watching what the article says, it goes on, it takes over, it passes a certain exam so it can go to the director. It's this last paragraph. You know what, I don't think that's right. If you need some training to be done, it's something you need to know and one who's in education when doing this job. A lot of it's an exception to management, and he needs to know when he's doing his job as a teacher. I don't think there's any need until he's elected, that it's just a manager who'll get dressed later. Everything else is actually, and you know what, you can skip over and find out there in one time, look here, and connect, and the judge comes to judge and ask, the first member of what is both the second and the third. I just think this part that's being introduced is something that's written in Slovenian law. I also saw that part that they introduced, so then the combination of one law, another, is ours, where it all came from, and it looks like we're going to have to clean up that text very quickly, whether in a year or a half to make a new law that will be adequate to the Republic of Serbia, where we live. I hope, with or without you, Minister, so how do we do?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31095	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31096	On Article 60 of the amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary club, I have an explanation of the government which is absolutely unsatisfactory, because it says the amendment should not be accepted because it is necessary by law to regulate the procedure for electing a director. We do not dispute that the law should prescribe it, but it is unacceptable for the school director to choose a school board based on a public competition, and that he must first obtain the opinion of the teaching council. In our opinion, it's a return to self-government socialism. I don't know what if that opinion isn't positive or what it's all about in the collective it creates and who gives everything to himself the right to declare whether anyone can be a director or not. So, after this, the words - the school's principal's competition is chosen by the school board on the basis of a public competition, should be put to a point, and the teacher's board's opinion should be deleted. I don't think that's worth anything. Next...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31097	I apologize to MP Gordani Pop-Lazic, sorry, just a moment, the amendment you're talking about is an amendment to Article 60. Lazar Marjansky.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31098	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31099	We haven't gotten to that yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31100	I'm really out of town, 'cause I'm in a hurry on the road, obviously. I'll be back to 59. Is that what I told you? It doesn't matter if you're letting me finish Lazar Marjansky by the time I started, I won't answer again, since my colleague's not here, and I've been preparing to apologize and leave the O.R. and free you from my presence. So, since the minister agrees on the decision to elect a school director within 30 days of the date of delivery of the decision, we do not believe that the minister should have given up his right to appoint a school director. You know, it can do whatever you want, centralist, but the responsibility for human resources policy at the level of education, whether secondary or primary, should remain with the minister. Here you give up in favour of the managing authority, and yet you're asking for the opinion of the teaching council. It may happen, especially when you predict that you are giving an ex post consent to one day a minister comes and says there have been errors in the appointment of this director, and now it is no longer valid, so as to challenge the appointment of a director, as it has been disputed by you and the regular profession of Mr Vojislav Seselj at the law school. The same was the ministry's ex post agreement, so the second minister, i.e. You, so the consent was lifted. You're making room here for something like that, and you'd better be taught this exact experience if something like that wasn't in the law. Don't let us go back to this self-government, it didn't do us any good under the firm, let everyone decide, let everyone be satisfied and I'll tell you we'll get to an anarchy and get to a situation where you'll have to appoint directors and set up a V.D. Director, because you won't be able to...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31101	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31102	... to make arrangements in the collective itself about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31103	Thank you. National MP Vlasimir Budimovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The MP withdrew this amendment. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has just explained this amendment. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word on behalf of the applicants for the amendment, MP Drusan Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31104	On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's MPs, Mr. Slobodan Milosevic and my fellow Members, I have submitted an amendment to Article 60, and we are practically asking in the amendment that Articles 60, 5 and 6 are deleted, and that, in the position of the 8th of this article, the school board has every right to make decisions on the calling of a new competition, instead of saying "that is to say, the minister does not agree with the position of the 4th member" and that in this way, the school board has every right to make decisions on calling a new competition. Our wish was that, precisely because this article is a practical policy, we would make an impact on the minister to accept this amendment in this form, at least in Section 5, because if the minister does not agree or respond, it will practically be considered that the minister did not give consent. In Article 63, when it comes to resolution, the same situation is repeated. If the minister does not respond again, it is believed that the minister did not accept the director's resolution. This is a direct influence of politics, because if the minister can't blame the candidate, who was proposed by the teacher council, suggested the school board composed of representatives of the social community, parents and employees, who is very competent and if the minister can't find any objection to a particular candidate just because it belongs to another political option, the minister will remain silent because the arguments made by the person who applied have the opportunity to appeal eventually bring down the contest, that decision by the minister. Thus, by not responding, the minister has politically performed a practical lustration of what was proposed and belongs to another option. That is why I think it is necessary in this part to accept the amendment of Article 60, which was proposed by the Socialist Party, because I am sure that all this invitation to join Europe, to what is expected, is certainly not written in such a way that it must be a member of the party that is in power, or party in which it is a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31105	The word has a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31106	It is interesting for a member of the 59th, and members of the 60th appear in the selection of directors, who gives consent. First, we didn't agree on the committee either. When we adopted amendments to the Law on Primary and High School, the largest number of members of the Committee, almost unanimously, opposed the term of director to life. They asked for a mandate limit, and I think they were right. It is interesting, however, because the minister practically ruled out the position of the 6th member of the 59th Director can be life-long. If that's the manager, if he achieves I don't know what results, it can still be taken, but we still don't have managers as directors, and we won't have them so soon. Therefore, simply a man cannot believe that the same people you see on the Committee, which you see here in parliament, once they've advocated one thing, and now that they've taken power, they're pushing for something else. Why? It's clear, because now their people have come to the office of director. The minister even mentioned a director, I won't name him, he's a life director and he can be. Why is it so indicated by Article 60. In Article 60, Col. Cvetkovic has seen well, and especially the part about it, and I think it is far more difficult, not which gives consent, but it is not good that the minister gives consent precisely because we have a much better quality relationship on the school board. We've even damaged employees on behalf of some centralist, on behalf of the greater influence of the state three plus three plus three. If that's the case, then the minister gives consent. If it wasn't good practice, we heard earlier and in Serbia it's such a practice that we have so much v.d. The director, let's say, the school boards propose a candidate, the minister doesn't sign, so the competition is being held again. The school boards at some schools propose one candidate, and the minister even someone else who hasn't even been to the competition. We have cases like that. So these are strange things that happen, and if it were a one-party system, it would be justified, but it can't be justified. This shows that this law has not experienced any decentralisation without talking about democratisation. If the minister does not respond and does not agree within 30 days, you will find that he did not give consent. It should be the other way around. Why can't the minister give consent in a month? If he didn't give consent, then he's not fit by the candidate, so we'll have V.D. The director's doing it all over again. Similarly, it is repeated and I think that the article in 59 has somehow influenced Article 60, and therefore we have suggested that the term of office of the director lasts four plus four, and that the minister must at least give consent, and if not, he will be considered a candidate elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31107	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andić and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31108	Dear colleagues, to Article 60. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to change attitude 5, the word "no" is deleted and replaced by "is". So, we are here, in fact, bound by the Minister in position 5. If the Minister, within the time limit set in Article 4 of this article, does not adopt an act of consent, he is deemed to have given consent. That's the point. We've had a lot of problems in the last year when the director was elected. It's been going on for months and this article's 60th thing has been improved. In fact, it is no longer possible for this procedure to last so long. It's all cut down to those 30 days. So, the minister gives consent to the school board's decision within 30 days and the matter is quite clear. If he gave consent the director was set up, and if the minister does not adopt an act of consent then the matter is clear again, so the director did not get consent and was not set up. We felt that things might be even clearer if, with Article 5, the minister obliged himself to give consent within 30 days, making things clearer to the school board and the local self-government and the teaching council. So we think it would be even clearer. The same is true of our argument regarding article 63 and with the same intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31109	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 61st Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragica Radulovic, Milos Lukic, Đuro Popovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee for Education has submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirovic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 61. Article 61 provides for the way in which children's kindergarten and school directors are appointed. I have submitted an amendment to delete the words "or the minister did not give consent to the school board's decision". Your promises were that everything would be decentralised. Where does the Minister's consent come from now? Then why are the school boards, which are composed of representatives of school, local administrations and parent councils, why do we choose them when we don't trust them? In translation, it means that representatives of the school, local administrations and parent councils do not know who can be the director at their school. It will be better seen by the Belgrade minister who best sees at the school, who is most willing to be the director. Probably the minister has a way of doing it, through a party network. The main criteria will be from which party is the candidate. This way, education won't get much better. In 50% of the cases, the directors of eight-year-old schools are teachers of physical education. They are likely to be physically ready to get to that function at school, or they were physically ready to blow the most strongly into whistles. This is how directors have been appointed in the past two years. The proposal of Article 61 means that directors will continue to be appointed as before, and as it has been so far, nothing will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31111	Are any of the other authorised promoters answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative, Professor Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31112	I don't want to stop reform because of these amendments. I think the minister is holding off on reform because he doesn't accept our amendments. We don't ask much. The Socialist Party of Serbia does not demand the rejection of the law, but requires that certain things that are normal in the civilized world be accepted. I was just talking about article 61, and now you see 61, that's exactly what it says. The school board elects a director, a teaching and scientific council, or a teacher's council, to propose a candidate for director, the school board unanimously accepts him, send him to the ministry, the minister refuses. Article 61(2) shall state the reasons for the appointment of the acting officer: if no competition has been called in time; if the school board has not chosen; or if the minister has not given consent. What do you think is crucial? This third one. In 99% of cases, the choice of V.D. is made. The director because the minister did not give consent. Let's say we have a 100-150-man collective. If this collective decides, if the local community decides, it should expect the minister not to give consent and to call a competition, i.e. set up a V.D. Director. That's why, not some other reason. You see, we're not asking much, we're asking for the minister to get rid of this job and to decentralize the government by having local environments, schools, employees at schools, as well as at the university, be able to make decisions, that is, to make a choice of directors. I guess that collective of 150 people, that's a larger teacher, that collective that has over 180 people, knows better who can be the director. If they adopt unanimously, which is why the minister won't sign. I'd have a business record, an 88th member is missing to count, I don't think there's a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31113	On the basis of Article 88. You're looking for a quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units to determine the quorum, at the request of the authorised representative of the Bora Stanimirovic parliamentary group. We have a quorum for further work. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31114	Thank you, buddy. You, however, have shown, as vice president, the respect of the procedure. The essence of democracy is still in respect of the procedure, but it is no wonder when the president of the assembly is there, the minister who is in front of the government is a member of that party, organisation or whatever it is called, that GSS. In fact, the amendment refers to Article 62, point 8, which says - in the original proposal of the motion that the Director convenes and manages a session of the educational and educational teaching council, i.e. without the right to decide. At this point, we look at the essence of this law, that the goal of the ministry was to satisfy the form, and the essence, content, it doesn't matter. The form consists of nine years of primary education. The form is that the director has the right to convene, to manage, and has no right to decide. Let's make some smaller numbers of members of this council. What's the main problem, Minister, is that the Director has the right to decide. There's no problem. You took it somewhere like an example, not you personally, most likely service, so you said there was no right to decide, Director, that there would be no abuse of function. The form continues in the explanation of the minister who told us that one reason for the adoption of this law is 25 plus 12, as I understand it, 25 years of study, or completion and 12 waitings. You said exactly what is the sum of those two numbers, 37, but you didn't say it was in function, on which side of that collection is your party, GSS, if it's in power, and it's on the right hand side of the collection. That could be 370 years. Now to use the right to replicate, since you've been protected from this which jumps the MPs behind your back. I used, Minister, your expressions when I spoke. Foreign expressions or words of foreign origin are not a problem when used in speech, in addressing the Assembly, in conversation, but are a problem when put into law. You used those words - the license, and the loans, the evaluation, that's all the words that are incorporated into the law. It wouldn't have occurred to anyone if that contained a law on basic education. You know, Mr. Minister, if that word were good - evauation, credit or license, then Vuk Karadzic would probably have it in his dictionary. Is there a more beautiful language, a language richer than Serbian, because rare languages that have wealth, and besides, only in the cart of the minister have countless authentic names that are original Serbian names, but obviously you will end up as well as the fate of wagons.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31115	I would ask the messengers of the people to speak to each other with respect and respect the dignity of the National Assembly. National MP Natasa Milojevic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the amendment be rejected. On behalf of the promoter, is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasa Milojevic, as the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31116	We return to the same topic we talked about when it came to some previous amendments and when it comes to the basic concept and approach in the creation of this law, whether the rights and obligations of the educational staff will be regulated in accordance with the Labour Act and in accordance with the Law on Labour in State Authorities. The SDP, the SDP parliamentary group that I belong to, is the opinion that, in accordance with European legislation, we will have to refer to union requirements that say that in this area too, the rights of employees that are regulated in accordance with the Labour Act and therefore, the amendment to this article has been submitted and it is said to be in paragraph 3 after the words "employee" add the words "or representative trade unions", and since this member regulates the jurisdiction and responsibility of the director of the institution, it is said that a new point 12 is being introduced and that it is said to be the director's obligations, or the authority to "with a representative union to conclude an individual collective contract". The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, but I must again comment on the work of the Legislative Committee. In previous texts, when the same syntax representative union, the employee representative, i.e. representative or representative trade unions, was used, the Committee found that the amendment was legally possible. It is now an interpretation that it is not legally possible, because there are no representative trade unions in the basic text of the law. I need to draw attention once again to the fact that this committee, like everyone else, is consistent, if at all possible, that, since I know how each committee works, they are concentrated from the beginning to the end, regardless of the huge number of amendments. So I won't agree with the conclusion that the amendment is not legally possible, because it is legally possible, and it may be contrary to the basic concept of the law, and that is why we defend the amendment. Therefore, the objection is not addressed to the Proposer, rather than to those who did not follow closely enough in class what is happening to the same text. Therefore, the SDP insists that the rights and obligations of persons employed in education and training are regulated in accordance with the Labour Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31117	The word has Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31118	As chairman of the Legislative Committee, just to draw attention to fellow Milojevic, without entering any replication, collective agreements can regulate the rights and obligations of employees, but never to act, so that it does not comply with the law, but it is against the law when you want collective agreements to regulate something that is exclusively legislative jurisdiction and therefore the Legislative Committee has defined itself so.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31119	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative, MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31120	Here, said the minister like this last night, only the SDP is close to the union, which is why it only represents the interests of the workers. I wouldn't agree with that, the interests of the workers are all represented and I see it that way. Someone's getting closer to one problem in a certain way. On the Educational Committee, both now and in the proposed amendments at the beginning of the law, we have advocated that as a party, as the largest liquid in the exercise of labour rights, we find the place of union. We also asked her to find a union seat in all the pores, which means they find collective agreements both general and individual places here. That's why I don't think there's any reason, if something isn't well-formed, let the board get it there, as was done with a series of amendments. Also, I'd ask, I don't see any amendments to the Education Committee. I didn't see them in the text, and I'm asking you to deliver it, because somehow I have a slightly larger number of amendments, as I recall, than we adopted. I allow that I was wrong, but please, as part of this paper, I want the amendment of the Education Committee that was, to be an integral part of everything. They're gone today, and I haven't seen them through the Serbian government or missed them anywhere, and I don't think tomorrow we can start a further discussion without these amendments, I want to read them, see if they were on the board, whether they're so defined, and I have a right to do that. I beg you, Mr. Chairman, to try to secure that part of the material. I think we need to find a common language, Minister, we said on the Educational Committee, some negotiations are under way, and I don't think there's any reason not to find a common place, a working place, and tomorrow an action committee, and I think you've been here in the mood to look for, regardless of the board, let some solutions be found.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31121	Just to give an answer to MP Vladimir Garcevic, that the amendments of the Committee on Education were sent to the MPs in a report that we received from the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee on Education. The Committee on Education submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 63rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants of the amendment, the word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31122	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, my colleague Jovan Todorovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 63 of the proposed law. A member who shall be governed by the termination of the Director's office. So, to a member who, in addition to legal conditions, when he meets the Director, when his function ends, and also just a settlement under the conditions listed in this article. We have proposed that Article 63 delete the positions 3, 4 and 5, and we see that today the most discriminatory of these provisions concerning the granting of consent, i.e. the failure of consent by the Minister, as well as the appointment of the Director, the second Director, or the selection of the Director, as well as its resolution. The only thing we agree on, and we still have to discuss, is that our aim is to propose this amendment as well as in the basic text of this article to prevent possible abuses in the procedure and appointments and resolutions, so that our proposal is to delete these provisions both around the placement and the resolution, given that the board of directors and the school board adopts a decision and proposes a resolution of the director himself, regardless of one of these 13 conditions and conditions for resolution, there are more conditions and a sign for resolution than for that activity, and these are the obligations of the Director himself. So our proposal is that in these cases there would be no confrontation between the authorities of the local community and the Ministry of Education and the Minister of Education, given that if the school board makes such a decision, the minister does not give consent within 15 days, the silence of the administration pulls the benefits of the person who has been relieved of his duties. Which means that from this point of view we should not allow politics to lead someone into a wedge in someone's board, and from that point of view we suggest that the local community, the school board, the teacher's council, and those who choose and choose the director best know the situation, and can also best give reviews of the value of the candidate as well as his necessary experience. And also in this article, I think it's extremely discriminatory that point 12 that says that... (President: Time.) ) If the school board makes an illegal decision, it shall appoint a director on the basis of false documentation, it shall resolve it on the basis of a decision that is illegal and which it has unlawfully made. For these reasons, I do not think that this provision on the silence of the administration should be a prerequisite for repealing one decision by the competent authority, or the school board.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31123	Are any of the other authorizeds answering for word? The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31124	This is the same story as before. This is a repetition. Here, in the election of the director, the minister gave consent, did not give consent, and it passed. But now with the director's office representative, when he can stop, there are 13 reasons, among which are when the director can be resolved without his consent. If the institution, i.e. the director, is responsible for the offence under this law, a criminal offence. So he even made a mistake. Only two positions, I won't bother you, if during the term of office it is determined that the Director does not meet the conditions for the teacher, the educator, etc., has no diploma, and nevertheless the minister is amnesty, or within 15 days does not make the decision, does not give consent to the resolution, and that director remains the director, although the entire collective of the case is working against him. And the school board and the union and everyone. But the minister is probably some other reason. I can't believe anything else, but that he's a member of a particular party, so that must be a party reason, not a professional or a moral one. We're the last time, these are the two most drastic ones in the election of directors not to give consent, and in a solution to quietly allow one criminal, one man who forged his diploma to continue. No one can explain it to me, not even the minister. The minister does not give consent, he remains. Article 63(1), (2), (3) if the Minister does not adopt an act of consent under Article 3(3), he shall be deemed not to have given consent.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31125	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 64. The amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Milojevic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is made by the MP of the people, Natasha Milojevic, the bearer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31126	We are, to remind the basic text, that is, the end of the text in Article 64(3), which regulates the termination of office to the director of the institution and is said to cease working relationship with the payment of the severance payment in accordance with the law. We again, and we will repeat as long as the debate on this law continues, we insist that, after the words of the law, we place a comma or just delete the point and say "and by collective agreement". The legislator's representative told us about the pay phone, not just during the debate, that there are activities under way to sign collective agreements with the city's education and education union. We believe that directors also have the right to receive compensation under collective agreements in the event of termination of employment as directors, as well as all employees. That's the first argument. The second is that if there are no specifics on the list of education-examination directors that it is his duty to sign a collective contract on behalf of the employer, then everything else becomes meaningless, including this signing of a collective contract with the city union. Someone's gonna have to represent an employer in an educational institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31127	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 64th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31128	We believe that the law, and we tried on the Educational Committee to look for solutions that would protect the Director, we didn't find there. The question is whether the General Labour Act can be found, because we believe that a man appointed, who is a high-quality director, should not be put in a position to go on the labour market. I'll say, in a city filled with jobs. So there aren't any. You can't fire someone to take this place. No matter how much trust he has in his work, that man cannot carry out his work. There's no protection in the law. On the other hand, collective agreements are not allowed, and we come into a situation where this director while he's serving us is good, and when we change him, God has given up on him. I'm not into it, no matter what man's about, if it's something that's best quality, but that's how we're gonna choose in the next period, and it's gonna take the best place, and I think it's got to be looked for. Is that within the Serbian government certain solutions for these people? For all people with outstanding quality, and we believe that in the coming period it will be basic quality, not political commitment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31129	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 70, that is, Article 2, which I request to delete. Article 70 reads: "The primary and secondary education and education is achieved on the basis of the school programme. The school programme carries schools according to the 1st general foundation of the school programme, 2nd special foundation of the school programme." My view is that the Ministry of Education is the only one responsible for the adoption of a curriculum, or program. It is not good that at this rate, as set out in this proposal, schools bring the programme itself. This can be misused, especially in secondary schools in small communities that have few students and barely exist. In order for a school to exist, it needs to have a certain number of students. Wouldn't that school abuse this other member and have a weaker program to attract as many students as possible? I don't think that's good for an education in general. One student would be forced in a completely different way, and in high schools they would not have the same degree of education. That's obvious. I think there is nothing better than a unique educational programme for all schools in Serbia. It means that everyone has the same plan and programme and that there is no change in any part of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31131	Does anyone answer for word in the name of authorized promoters? No, I don't. ) National MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragica Radulovic, Milos Lukic, Đuro Popovic and Adam Urosevic jointly submitted to the amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been issued by MP Dragica Radulovic, on behalf of the applicants for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Soviet Union has submitted an amendment to Article 73. It's a bill of law. In Article 73(2), point 2 is replaced by the percentage: "70" is replaced by the percentage: "90"; in point 3 "40" is replaced by the percentage: "80"; in point 4 "30" is replaced by the percentage: "70". This is what we propose because the minister adopts an act establishing the mandatory annual fund of the class. At the same time, he says the act is not mandatory, but will depend on school directors, teachers, their motivations, and so on, how many lessons required by the mandatory annual fund will be realized. In secondary education, some students will master 100% of the program, some 90% and some 70% of the mandatory fund, which is found to be a minimum. Is this how the state creates equal opportunities and gives equal chances to its children? By accepting such an amendment, which refers to the minimum education-schooling course in secondary education, aims to ensure better quality work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31133	On behalf of the authorised representatives, is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic jointly submitted to the amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Nenad Lemajic, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31134	The reasons for submitting this amendment are, I would say, to the greatest extent of the pedagogue nature. According to the education ministry's proposal, basic education should be divided into three equal cycles per three years. The DSS according to its proposal sees this nine-year education in two cycles: the first cycle of six years and the second of three years. We think there's a good pedagogical basis for that, first of all, in the fact that children need to be organized in the first six classes into one collective that will be tighter on the continent, and besides, there are other reasons for this six-year cycle. The curricula and programs, as we see them, and I would say that the Ministry only hints at them, at least according to what has been announced so far, indicate that the midcycle will be closer to the first cycle than the third cycle. The third cycle largely already means internal different levels of knowledge, one kind of lower secondary school. So we think it's better to define a primary school, a nine-year-old school through these two cycles -- six plus three, than three cycles -- three plus three, and there's enough pedagogue base for that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31135	Do any of the authorized promoters come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31136	When it comes to Article 73, it repeats what we said last time, that mostly the minister appears at 40, 50 members where he judges everything, even a fund of lessons. We criticise this law, not that it's not reform, but that it's not until the end. There are opportunities left everywhere to solve something by some sublaw or other law. We're passing a law on primary and secondary education, and we don't know how many norms will be teachers, what interests most. I'm still under the review of what the minister said earlier, and he hasn't answered me what the reasons are, for example, some directors who have committed crimes protects against breaking up a working relationship, or a decision adopted by the council. That's what matters. These are the reasons why we can't vote on this law, not because we're for change, because we always point out that there are a lot of things to change, but it seems we haven't found the right measure in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-10-0.u31137	The 83rd Amendment was submitted by the Education Committee. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so we find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. This would end today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The first to be reported is MP Pal Shandor, who will explain the amendment to Article 84, noting that there are 80 amendments left to be discussed in the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System.
