ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25646	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 108 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system we have determined that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform the National Assembly that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Mirko Rosic, Rodoljub Sabic, Radmilo Misovic, Miroslav Markicevic, Ratimir Svirčević, Slobodan Radulović, Dusan Budisin, Srdjan Sikimic, Kasa Jožef. National MP Petar Misic will be late for the morning session. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, I would like to inform you that at this session, the president of the National Assembly of Ms Natasa Micic agrees with the members of 83rd and 84th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, called on representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement of Resistance, the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and Teachers of Serbia -- the Kolubara Section and the USAID. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE DUVAN (in principle) On the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the principle debate, there is a National MP, Hranislav Peric, and after that, MP Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25647	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the present tobacco law regulates tobacco production, and that's the main part of the tobacco production chain. What do you want with the new tobacco law? The new law wants the government to decide everything about tobacco, and centrally, in these tobacco business, it turns huge money and it's business number one in the world. Most often it's said that anyone who puts under the control of cigarettes, oil and coffee can have power in one country, and probably this recipe has been prescribed by the West. When it comes to the conditions of this law that need to be met so that a man can deal with the production and purchase, importing tobacco, they're high, so I'm afraid we'll legalize those businessmen who've been dealing with cigarette smuggling for the past two years, create wealth and prepare to take over all the traffic and sales jobs, as well as cigarette smuggling. The establishment of agencies in new laws has become a constant practice. How many new laws are so many new agencies? New agency, new state administration. By increasing the state administration, we're creating an overpriced state apparatus. What will the Ministry of Agriculture do if the Government deals with tobacco production through the Directorate? If the government takes over this tobacco trade law, then what will the Department of Trade do? This is how the state administration is doubled. The only thing that's good is maybe this way we'll improve unemployment in the country by setting up as many agencies as possible on the cost of the state as possible, and at the expense of workers and producers. Since our economy isn't working, the unemployed could only find work in the agencies. When you came to power, you promised the people decentralisation, and by passing new laws, you centralized everything. In translation, it means - the production of tobacco in fields across Serbia; tobacco factories for the manufacture of cigarettes in Nis and Vranj, and the money from cigarettes in Belgrade. Good distribution and decentralisation, all of them. In this law, as with the previous ones, the most work will be for the government. The government decides to grant authorisation to an undertaking or undertaking for tobacco production. The Government shall decide to withdraw the authorisation of an undertaking or undertaking for tobacco production. The government decides to grant a license to trade in large tobacco products. The government decides to withdraw a large tobacco trade license. As far as I can tell, I have plenty of authority for the government in law, while on the other hand there is no obligation for the government. Please don't throw it away. I always listen to you very carefully, even though I don't like what you're saying. Why didn't the government take the obligation to guarantee the prices to tobacco producers? Why did the government not take the obligation to guarantee payment to tobacco producers, but tobacco producers must strike and block roads to charge for the tobacco produced. Yesterday it was in the press that the pyrocans couldn't sell their tobacco. Is it not worth it to buy tobacco from our pyrot producers, but to give someone permission to import tobacco from the side? The proposed law makes it clear that the government has no confidence in anyone. He has no confidence in the Ministry of Agriculture that he is involved in the organisation of tobacco production, nor in the Ministry of Trade to organise tobacco trade. All will be forbidden to deal with tobacco manipulations, only allowed to do so by the government. So far, the practice shows that when we pass a law in some area, and we transfer power to the government, that area no longer works. We've passed the Company Act, our businesses don't work in most cases. We've passed the Labour Act, the workers aren't working, the halls are empty. I'm afraid when we pass the tobacco law, we don't destroy domestic tobacco production. There is no word in the law on the protection of domestic tobacco and manufacturer production. Is it known who's in field tobacco production today? They are farmers in the country who have few countries and cannot provide themselves with existence. These are workers who lost their jobs in working halls and families with more children in the house. Also, the law does not provide for an even division, according to the participation of workers, in the chain of participants from production to sales, who invests most in this business and who takes the most money. Tobacco production is the hardest job in agriculture. Since March, the preparation for the production of decomposition on the leus is started, then the dispersion is carried out in the field, and over the summer it is bathed several times and constantly protects itself from various diseases. Then, when the harvest begins, it is read daily, followed by stringing and drying. The tobacco works are daily and last from March to December, when the buy-in of tobacco is carried out. How much the manufacturer puts into work, if he was counting everything, it'd be one pack of cigarettes a day. The distribution is clear mathematics: 200 - 300 dinars per kilogram of dry tobacco, and to the manufacturer of cigarettes and merchants and budgets from 1,500 to 2,000 dinars per kilogram. Where's the promoter here? Is this a fair distribution? You'd have to propose to deal with these issues. Finally, it is clear that this law does not protect the domestic producer, but gives priority to the importers, because importing tobacco is a lucrative business where there remains a lot of money and has for all. "You're the only one digging in," the Resistance said.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25648	The word has a People's MP, Free Adzic. The National MP is a member of the Committee who is now in session. Since this is the reason for his absence from the O.R., if he shows up after the Committee's work, then he'll get his word. The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic. The SRS parliamentary group is available for 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25649	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the smokers' hands were to come out of the wounds that appear to them on their lungs from smoking, most likely we wouldn't need this law. I am convinced that no one in Serbia would use this poison to put himself in a position to shorten his life span, not to talk about finance. But since that poison already exists, then there should be an orderly way of producing, importing and selling, but certainly not in this way. This bill is a monopoly bill, written under the influence of tobaccolobs. It's pretty clear who the tobacco lobby is. These are not social companies dealing with tobacco and cigarette production and traffic. They're privates, they didn't come before you came to power, they funded you until you were in power, and now they're in charge because many of you are holding in their hands. This is where the individuals are mentioned, I don't have to. You all know in which political parties the tobacco mafia finances which politicians are named. Even you who belong to these political parties know that. Yesterday at some of you I saw the astonishment of "so, is that possible? "Yes, it's possible. You can tell by this bill and by the discussions. For example, you will close down all social firms, because the conditions are rigorous and will be bought by Cane Frog, all of them. That's guaranteed. Of course, if there's no deal with Peconi. There aren't many of them who are going to do this job. First he'll be dealing with the tobacco agency. If you'd said the raspberries agency, the mushroom agency, so let me understand, what we can produce, what we can sell, make agencies and make it all go planically; not be mushrooms or mushrooms 10 dinars in ransom, as it was last year, it's humiliating, incomprehensible, rather than having its own price and its production. You guys went for the tobacco, then the tobacco agency. The agency will now replace both the Trade Court and the Chamber of Commerce and everything, because the tobacco business will not be able to deal with anyone who has met all legal requirements for any other production. It will not be sufficient to register with the Court of Commerce, but it must especially satisfy the conditions that the tobacco agency is now prescribing to it, and Minister Djelic financial terms: here three million, here five, here fifty, here a table, for five years, for three years. Each trade of 3,000 dinars and hygienic-sanitary conditions, so she can sell cigarettes. Anyone carrying cigarettes - a special vehicle marked for the transport of cigarettes. What social firm, apart from extraordinary locations for its facilities and tobacco sales facilities, can meet these conditions? Is this the preparation of the daulets and the little kiosks these big gangsters, mobsters and criminals? What do you need the board of directors for? They have nothing to do, they have no other business in the Serbian government, but will be on the board of directors of the tobacco agency. We're doing all right, just to get the ministers to do business, trade, health, finance, of course, and director of the Customs Administration to deal with it. You're still calling on tobacco classes that can be produced in accordance with federal regulations. What federal regulations, what federal state? It's as if you don't break up the federal state and make an alliance of states, direct us here to regulations from the federal state, and here you change the Constitution in an unconstitutional way. To God, we're going to bring everything into legal order and into the legal system, but we just can't get the state, the Constitution and the basic state laws, and when we start following the laws, then everything will be right. You took that lobby into your own hands. You're being led by the Mafia. Milka Marinkovic: Who? Milka, I don't know who took you into their own hands. I really don't care. I'm dealing with a bill here. If you're complaining no one took your hand, you still have a chance. I'd really like you to come out here with some good proposals. Your wish may be good, but you'll see when the law begins to come true... (Milka Marinkovic: It's important that you touched the apartment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25650	I ask the MPs that, by respecting the Rules of Procedure that binds us all, they do not earn during the presentation, and the speaker does not conduct dialogue with those who earn from the bench. This is the last warning for all of us 250 to remind ourselves that it is an obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure and to stop with the raiders from the parliamentary bench. Please pay attention and respect to the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25651	I might as well say thank you for saying the names, because this screaming voice you know who it belongs to. You should've said right, not "please the MPs of the people." To me, only one MP, identified, and you know him very well, belongs to your MP group. Since we're making books out of these stenographic notes, in a hundred years, someone won't know who it's about. That is why it is your duty to say - I pray Milka Marinkovic, who constantly throws it over the board, to abstain, at the pay phone is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is talking about the bill. Milka Marinkovic: First you get your apartment back. When I talk about apartments, Milka, then you can talk about apartments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25652	I ask MP Tomislav Nikolic and MP Milka Marinkovic to stop breaking the Rules of Procedure. The next measure is the pronunciation of both the People's Messenger and the one and the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25653	I'm going to end by warning you of a cynical member who's saying that minors are forbidden to buy tobacco, tobacco, because they're little years old, so that we don't drag them into a tobacco smoke vice, and you know they can buy alcohol, prescription drugs, and no prescriptions; you know that through all the sports shows on all the TVs of Fast, the cigarette manufacturer, and you don't mind it, but -- let's write in one member of the law that our kids won't be able to go to the movies to buy cigarettes for their parents. And now we're one human society, we think a lot about our children, and the state television every night propagates the rights of lesbians and gays in a video. I don't have anything against those rights, I just don't mind it being advertised on TV. Let everyone suffer their illness, let everyone live their lives, need help, but if something that is unnaturally advertised on television, if every few minutes of sports shows that our children carefully follow our children are cut off by commercials about cigarettes, and you are here to talk about how you think about children, then all I can say is that it's a big cynicism.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25654	In view of the conduct of Article 84(2), the SRS parliamentary group has an additional two minutes and 30 seconds. I'm asking the secretary to put it on record. The word has a MP, Dusan Cvetkovic, and after that, Slobodan Janjic. I apologize to MP Dusan Cvetkovic, the president of the parliamentary group, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25655	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, just a few brief answers, given that I think some claims have been made that should not be left without an argument. If you analyze the existing tobacco law, you will see that there is no way to sanction tobacco advertising, or tobacco products, or to sanction this type of work in any way if one of the players is a minor. We passed the Broadcasting Law six months ago, but unfortunately it cannot still be applied functionally because no advice has been appointed and I think that those criticisms that are being referred to at this point are justified, given the contradictions between that formal, legal solution and our actual practice. The problems that follow commercial industries are serious, but they cannot be linked to one system and one party, not even to power. We live in a society where the music festival is related to one brand of cigarettes, a film festival for one brand of whiskey, a basketball league for another brand of cigarettes; therefore, these are our real problems. Yeah, "winston," "balantine," "light strike." Of course, when we talk about it, we can, as Parliament, look for answers to problems that are general and not political. When you get information that every fourth child in Serbia smokes, that every other man in Serbia smokes, that we are second to the consumption of cigarettes in Europe, then you actually get a very bad picture of our society in the future. It is not enough to take the campaign - put out a cigarette, and it is not enough to stay on the letter of the law, but the first step in this is to highlight the provisions of this kind that we have pointed out in Article 4, which actually opens up the possibility for both the state and those who are currently dealing with this problem to prevent and sanction such a thing. We would support an amendment that would work this out more precisely, but through the Law on Broadcasting, through the Law on Child Protection, through the law that we are now passing on tobacco, because we are slowly closing that ring around those who, in our opinion, abuse jobs and thus question something that is the health of our nation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25656	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25657	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, my dear Leskovcians, is here at the first meeting of the Assembly, when it comes to the tobacco law, again at this Assembly speaker of yours, which is another proof that what was deluded in this assembly house has commented that my performance in December and January was some kind of propaganda of the SPS and myself personally, indeed one of the untruths. Since tomorrow and DOS will be in opposition with us in Leskovac, it is because your associate member wanted it so much and that you of DOS and DSS decided to do so, but today the tobacco law is only after six months on the agenda, even though it was sent another June of the month, it is a practical decision by the Government and the DOS, and it has to be asked why the Government and DOS don't care, when so much money comes into the budget just from the tobacco tax, that it comes as soon as possible on the agenda. The fact that the tobacco law appears so late is that the unfortunate people we smoke helped us to both "ronhil" and I don't know which other cigarettes we buy at 10 to 15 dinars cheaper, but that's what the government has made possible. If she wanted to, she didn't have to wait for this law, she could by a regulation to sort out what she's proposing today in this bill; to sort out all the problems in the trade and tobacco production. You remember, dear colleagues, that last year the government poured like from a cable, like you MPs, trees and stones into past power, threatening and speaking of a huge smuggling of tobacco; however, it all ended up only on those threats. As far as I know, no one from the last government has even been brought to trial. This tobacco smuggling government has been trying to present some painting in front of various boilers and boiler sheds, but we are still buying, unfortunately, smuggled cigarettes. So far, the government has not accepted the introduction and implementation of that polling committee in this congregation, and why it is likely that it alone is clear to it. Anyway, when I talk about this so-called. The tobacco law, I say. Because this law, according to what it regulates, would practically have a name that suits it - a law on the production and sale of cigarettes. This, conditionally called tobacco law, is only through three sentences and two members (13th and 14th). He said something about tobacco production; therefore, three incomplete orders talk about tobacco production, and about fermentation, about the production of fermented tobacco is a total of three members present in this law. Why did the Minister of Agriculture accept that - I will never understand it, and I still don't understand its courage that, when only three orders of tobacco production exist in this law, 15 minutes of harassing this home and suggesting what will be in the future in tobacco production. All this could have been proposed in the new law and there would have been no problem, because this 59-member law only devoted five members to tobacco production. As the old law elaborated on the production and processing of tobacco, at least it could be prescribed, so many things would be clearer. It would also be clearer who manages tobacco production, who manages tobacco processing, so that they would not come into a situation where a professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences and an honorary professor of St. Anthony's College would surrender to the will of a professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences and an honorary professor of St. Anthony's College, that he subsequently determines some regulations that will control this law. And that this law doesn't have a real name also says that you've regulated the agency in eight members; this agency that has captured the government has obviously inserted this agency in a completely artificial way, because it absolutely does nothing but on the basis of the data that they provide and the one and the other ministry is practically trying to judge fully free will and makes the most important strategic decisions on tobacco issues. Finally, I would like to point out an important problem which I hope will be resolved after what I did yesterday, attending meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, and I also suggested that the minister would accept, which is the amount of tobacco they are obliged to buy from cigarette manufacturers. It seems to me that that amount of 2,000 tonnes should remain, because it will prevent small producers from producing tobacco, or cigarettes. It is necessary to install that 50% item as the smallest purchase compared to the amount of cigarettes produced, as this will practically protect domestic producers; and, by introducing a third or fourth cigarette manufacturer, practically 11-12 thousand tonnes of tobacco produced in our country will be bought. This is because other laws, e.g. Croatian law predicts 70% of purchases, but they even include the installation of tobacco into cigarettes produced in Croatia. I think this is really necessary, precisely because in my area, in Leskovačka cauldron, 750 tons of tobacco is produced, and it's mostly 90% of those high-lipped "berleys" and "virginia", and it's only 5% prilecan tobacco. I think by installing these clauses, we'll come to the right solution. Thus, the DIV that produces only 1,950 tonnes of cigarettes will come into little trouble, but the low tobacco industry, which produces 10,5 thousand tonnes, will make it buy significantly larger quantities of tobacco. So please, fellow MPs, if Minister Djelic's proposal to install those 50% mandatory ransoms comes, you'll accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25658	The Messenger of the people is Slobodan Janjic, and after him is the Messenger of the people Ljubisa Maravic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25659	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all countries in transition, and in general all countries in the world pay great attention to this law and tobacco traffic, because tobacco is financed largely by all countries in the world, and so is this. It is known that tobacco trade is one of the most profitable industries and that everyone wants to keep it under control. It's normal in every country, that's how it's done, and that's what the country does. In all countries, this business is also done by the mafia. In all countries of the world, and especially in transition countries, there are also mafias. However, I think we are the only country in Europe where the mafia has its own state; then it creates laws that suit it. The adoption of this law and this law will result in a complete shut-down of tobacco production in Serbia. Nice MPs said, and I heard more from the position and opposition, tobacco factories in Serbia will be obliged to buy 2,000 tonnes of tobacco. We have two tobacco factories, which are the tobacco industry Vranje and the tobacco industry Nis. So they're going to buy four thousand tons and they're just so bound to buy from the agricultural producers. However, current production in Serbia is 12,000 tonnes. What about the other 8,000 tonnes, which due to the price (our tobacco is far more expensive than imported tobacco) we cannot export and sell to anyone. Why is our tobacco more expensive? It is not that our agricultural producers are expensive to produce this tobacco, however, in all normal countries, since it is a high-profit branch and a lot of money is returned from tobacco to the state, the state in the ransom price is dying with 80% of the value of the buy-in price of tobacco, and 20% are paying for cigarettes factories and tobacco processing plants to the manufacturer, so that both the manufacturer and the cigarette factories are satisfied, so they can also work with domestic tobacco, and the state also benefits because, through the increased production of cigarettes, more funds remain in the budget. Through the higher employment of tobacco producers and through their contributions... Madam Chairman, courteous MPs. Since the chairman won't court Milk, I will. Milka, I don't know which one you like to smoke, cigarettes I mean, are you foreign or domestic? Say whatever you want, foreign or domestic...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25660	People's MP, you're trying to stage a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There was no throwing from the bench, as usual. Right now, I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25661	Let's vote whether it was a real throw or not, and the whole hall hears it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25662	Please proceed with your exposure, you have another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25663	By the law you're predicting, when you can't buy out 8,000 tons of tobacco, 150 thousand people who do this job and survive, you won't be able to do that job. There'll be 150,000 people left without a job. Why is it that you're in a hurry with a law like this that doesn't look anything like it? It's just for individuals to benefit from a huge economic advantage? You're in a hurry because you're being pressured by the mob and by international tobacco circles to sell two factories, DIN and DIV to them for a pretty cheap price. You know exactly who the buyers are. The Nis tobacco industry will buy Philip Morris, and the tobacco industry Vranje British Tobacco.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25664	National MP, time has elapsed at the disposal of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25665	It's easy to sell these two profitable factories. However, how privatisation should be carried out as far as it is concerned, which is the most damaging to you. First, we need to attach all the plants to the production and primary processing of tobacco, because no one's going to buy them tomorrow. To attach them to factories, so that these workers enter the privatisation process on very favourable terms. Otherwise, just to finish, these foreign cigarette manufacturers in the production of cigarettes do not use the type of tobacco produced in this climate. They will import tobacco from South America, Asia, Africa, because our tobacco to produce their foreign cigarettes is not suitable at all. First of all, these types of tobacco can't even be grown here, because for certain species, special climate conditions and special production methods are also needed. This is what you want to destroy and what little tiny landowners can get to some dinar for survival. It doesn't even help for a man to say -- forgive them, God, they don't know what they're doing; you know what you're doing for the mafia and multinational tobacco companies -- you sell what little we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25666	People's Messenger, I thank you, and the quote is, "Forgive them, God, they don't know what they're doing." Thank you. There is a word from MP Ljubisa Maravic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25668	Dear fellow Members, we have before us a law that regulates the regulation of conditions and methods of production, processing and marketing tobacco, as well as the classification of tobacco products in the Republic of Serbia. Almost everywhere in the world, tobacco production and transport are state monopoly, and tobacco products are regulated by special regulations. In line with that, our country, whatever its name is and whatever its name is today, has always had this kind of legislation. In view of this, the basic question arises - why are changes now being made by emergency procedure and with these proposed changes, because we have so far had regulations that regulated this area. Obviously, the reasons for this are in the domain of the financial sphere, where the small changes in the amount of money involved in tobacco are in the sum of huge sums, when it comes to the whole country, especially when it comes to budget revenues. Given this fact, I do not want to enter its global aspects, because there have been a lot of words about them and I will limit myself to part of the problem concerning the space of Metohija and Kosovo, which I am well-known as the MP from this part of Serbia. First of all, it is important to note that the international tobacco industry in Gjilan, which carried close to 20% of the total production of tobacco products in the Republic of Serbia, was working impeccably in Kosovo and Metohija. After the establishment of the international administration, there is a ferocious corruption of manufacturing plants and finished products of this factory by the dissipated Shiparian gangs. In addition to the current goal, which was a naked robbery, a much stronger reason for such vandalism lies in two more facts. It is the deprivement of jobs and resources for the naked existence of Serbian living in the Kosovo Maritime Area, which was the bearer of production in that part of Serbia. Second, the destruction of legal factories opened up a huge space for mixing various Shipatarian mob clans that opened a whole series of small factories and saw a huge space in the smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products for the rapid riching of unsuspecting proportions. Unfortunately, part of those cigarettes produced in Cosmet comes to the markets of our cities as well. When a citizen buys on the street cigars without a stamp of a sound name, "marlboro", "cant" or any other hell of a cigar, he doesn't dream of buying a counterfeit product, in which he may also have poisonous lawns, picked with who knows whose fields and fields. That same citizen also doesn't suspect that by buying that hell he's making hell in his system, because cigarettes with no determined quality and a real part of the real hell are on our premises. Why? Because part of the money is used to supply weapons, which also creates hell on our territory, the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and is killing our children. The monstrosity of this fact may be the most in that our man may sometimes have no money for bread, but that's why he has to find a way and money to buy a stack of those cigarettes, because they're cheaper than the ones with the stamps. A similar fate was experienced alongside this Gjilan factory by manufacturing and buying-in tobacco plants in Prizren, Djakovica and Kosovo Mitrovica. Their property was also robbed, and the workers lost their income. I'll only give an example of Tabak from Kosovo Mitrovica, where it's more than obvious next. In their production facilities, the arrival of an 800,000-euro international goods force remained in 1999. However, the same goods have been sold for 100,000 euros, which has been notified by our authorities to international authorities. But there's nothing out of it. In the end, we all have a basic question: how much did the budget of the Republic of Serbia lose in this sphere because of cigarette smuggling, due to the Shyptarian mafia smuggling of tobacco from the space of Cosmet?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25669	There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic. He's the last registered speaker. The time available to the SPS parliamentary group is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25670	Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to give the final word after the principle debate on the tobacco law. The very fact that he is the representative of the draft law is Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic suggests that the government of the Republic of Serbia wants this law to have some positive financial effect, regardless of what the tobacco law is, which is something else. If you look at the previous tobacco bill, you'll be able to compare them and see what the difference is. I must say, for every commendation of the concerns of the Government of Serbia is about the health of our citizens, who should not smoke unskilled cigarettes, allegedly because a lot of money is spent on health insurance for the treatment of those who are suffering from smoking, etc. However, since we are here with us and environmental experts, and since we are candidates to join the European Union, it may not be burning to ask them whether they have read some of the provisions of that Actis communautaires of 80,000 pages, which speak of the banning in the European Union traffic of tobacco older than six or 12 months. It is truly strange that this tobacco law does not provide for such a provision, which really protects the health of our citizens. If you're concerned about our people's health, you could have introduced that provision into this legislative proposal, not to distract the people by reducing smoking or raising the quality of manufactured tobacco on our country's territory -- which is simply not possible, because climate conditions do not suit the production of some type of tobacco produced elsewhere -- you're supposed to be worried about people's health here. On the other hand, I think the provisions, which regulate the ban on selling tobacco to minors, are really in a quasi-democratic and quasi-humanist way, approaching the problem of selling cigarettes to minors. This mechanism is in practice not applicable. How are you going to determine whether someone is minor or not when selling cigarettes at a trade or at an authorised place to sell cigarettes? Worse, I.D. Very interesting, given that this means that our traffickers will be authorized to legitimize those who buy cigarettes from them. There, it is another contribution to the development of the legal system and the rule of law with us. I must return to the minister's argument that there will be a mockery of opposition MPs, as there has been around the introduction of fiscal tills. Well, of course, the experience of the circle tells us that the introduction of fiscal registers is just a blurring of the eyes before the fact that the producer of the fiscal cash register tells whoever buys it that the data from the memory of these fiscal registers is being annulled. In Montenegro, they put it in a freezer, but we don't go back to it. One of the reasons for this tobacco law is that the goal is to reduce cigarette smuggling. I don't even know how much the whole legislative proposal will contribute to the development of tobacco or Stabilisation Market tobacco purchases, given the fact that in the last 10 years, despite the sanctions imposed on our country despite the fact that there have been many problems throughout the country, and even in the area of tobacco purchase, the purchase of tobacco from agricultural producers has gone less or more without problems. It has never happened that tobacco producers go out to the streets, get on the highway and block it for dissatisfaction, due to the fact that their 2001 tobacco family is not bought, that they are not guaranteed to buy tobacco at guaranteed prices, that they do not know what to do with the supplies they have in their homes, that their primary shoppers cancel their contracts. So, never in these ten years, if you want during the rule of the Socialist Party of Serbia, have tobacco producers been so betrayed. This happened this year, when about 700 dissatisfied tobacco producers from Piroth blocked the highway and unsuccessfully sought contact with the government of the Republic of Serbia, which normally remained deaf to their demands despite the insatiable involvement of certain active Pirot political actors to resolve the problem. In fact, it's just another consequence of the great liberalisation of the market. The reminders for the sake of this, last summer they strike and blocked the highway for agricultural products producers from Leskovec, because you opened our market wide for foreign goods, and our agricultural producers absolutely did not protect them. (President: six minutes. ) The process will continue in continuity and domestic agricultural producers will have nowhere to sell their products. This is the fate that the Government of the Republic of Serbia intended for our producers, not only tobacco, not just agriculture, but everyone else, and that is why it is responsible for solving the problem in the area of production and traffic of tobacco on you. So, ever since you came to power, there's been a problem of that kind. As a Solomonic solution to all these problems, regardless of what the fate of these agricultural producers who do not know what to do with their goods will be, there is a proposal for a tobacco law that has found one solution in the style of the maximum - if you do not want to solve something, form a commission. The government of the Republic of Serbia, unless it wants to solve a problem, form an agency, and that is why you created the agency, not to solve the problem, but likely that the problem would remain truly unsettled. (President: People's Messenger, it's seven minutes. In two minutes, the time available to your parliamentary group has been exceeded. One more sentence, I'll finish. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not yet taken up and decided on the amendments, so we will not be able to continue the debate on the amendments, let me say that the information that has been heard about the increase and charge of the budget based on excise and tobacco taxes has been increased by not how many times, not just the result of increased financial discipline and government work, but the consequences of the fact...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25671	As for the debate on amendments and the work of the Government, I ask you to take care of your obligations, and these are the obligations of respect for the time available to your parliamentary group, and then the tasks of the Prime Minister concerning the amendments and the affairs of the Government. This has exhausted the list of parliamentary groups. Before the initial search is concluded, do the presidents want the word? The speaker of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, Natasa Milojevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25672	Dear colleagues, today we are finishing a principle debate on the tobacco law. We have heard what Minister Djelic intends by this legal act, when it comes to editing this extremely important and obviously very complex and complicated economy, and not just economic areas. I would draw attention to three, in my opinion, key aspects, which are treated by the text of the law. I would call one a legalisation of the trafficking of cigarettes and tobacco, and that is the legal framework for which we Social Democratic Party MPs consider it almost undeniable. We like that there is an intention, provided by law, to finally introduce order into this area and that this intention is so consistent, so determined. Another aspect is a whole system of penalties provided for all offenders of this law, and the law provides for the obligation of warnings to be placed on a product called a box or a pack of cigarettes. It is foreseen, from Articles 28 to 31, that all those involved in the production and transport of cigarettes are obliged to pay certain deposits or compensation. The third aspect, which is also important, is control mechanisms, i.e. inspections and penalties, which are trying somewhere, I mean not sufficiently successful until the end, to assure us that the law will be possible and that it is possible to be implemented because inspection services or the work of inspection bodies will be tightened. What we think is missing is an educational aspect, and I think there's room for it in future, announced sublaws, which will be closer to determining the functioning of tobacco laws and this whole action. I would draw Minister Djelic's attention to the possibility that funds, which will be generated by the payment or payment of deposits, can be made in a certain percentage or by the passing of a fund for educational activity or education, primarily by minors, simply by our children. It's very possible to do it, here's why. A television poll was conducted immediately yesterday among citizens, where a question was asked -- how do you feel about the fact that minors are not allowed to buy cigarettes. There were different answers: women over 50 were clear and said -- yes, that's an excellent provision; younger people said -- that's good; and those who are very young, who are 17 to 20 years old said -- so what, I'm going to ask someone older to buy cigarettes for me, and that someone is going to do it. Thus, the law has not yet been fully discussed, has not yet entered into force, and some of the skills have already found ways to find a hole in that law. I think the establishment of a particular fund, from which educational or educational activity will be carried out, is possible to tell these young people first of all about, as popularly said, tobacco harmfulness, but it is not enough to just write on a pack of cigarettes, that tobacco or the use of this product is harmful to health. Why is that still necessary? I am counting on a chain reaction and that children who are educated or informed in this direction will influence society in general, that they will warn their elderly, whether it is about parents, friends, relatives, neighbors, to spare them tobacco smoke in the room in which they are located, at least so much, that they will warn all those in public institutions that it was not good to smoke in public institutions, that they will warn those in the schoolyards, whether it is basic schools or high schools, that it is not allowed to consume cigarettes etc. I wouldn't argue further, there'll be opportunities if we talk about sublaws. I ask you to find space, from the funds that come from deposit payments, to build an education fund, primarily children from 7 to 14 years of age.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25673	The word was sought by an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Joca Arsic. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? After him, MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25674	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, here we are at the end of this debate on a very important legislative project, as the minister of interreforming or interresor said, as some have interpreted. What was presented by the representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia in yesterday's and today's debate are our fundamental objections to this bill. I would like to underline and point out that they are deployed in several areas, which is primarily that this law says very little or almost nothing about the protection of domestic tobacco production. Even the Minister of Agriculture here made a claim that tobacco is being sown. As far as I know, tobacco is planted, scattered, not sown. That doesn't matter at all for this debate. The important thing is that his participation is minimal in the creation of this law, which is a pity for the law. The law has more fiscal care than this other base. He is more concerned with the way it is arranged and charged better, although we have heard here the allegations and heard the basic ministers say that tobacco is harmful to health, that it is harmful to smoke, but that we need funds for the Republic's budget and that these are revenues from some 15 billion dinars. Well, if that's important, then let's take a little bit of health. It's a shame that in this proposal for a solution, which is related to what my colleague Dacin said, as she said by her colleague Natasha, there's not a word about protection, about preventive action, except that one dinar per pack of cigarettes is being singled out for the purchase of equipment. Buying equipment is a final disease. It determines what is finally, which is already created. There is no word here about the need to allocate significant resources from these revenues collected in the Republic's budget, precisely for preventive action. That's what my colleague Pop-Lazic was talking about. We're facing an even bigger problem here, and we're talking a little bit about him, the problem of using easy drugs. I'm not sure if one day, taught experiences from the West, we're going to legalize and traffic light drugs: marijuana and similar to it. This leads to an even greater danger to health, especially young people. The law here provides that each pack should bear the mark that tobacco is harmful to health. These are notorous facts and it's hard to prove to someone that it's on a pack of cigarettes, and very little is on the wrapper. It may be standing right in hell, but there's no such thing as boxing. The fact that it says on the bar that smoking is harmful to health is one part of the job. What we did, how you criticise the previous government, is the adoption of a smoking ban law in public places. That gave us the results. No smoking in trains, in trams, no smoking in this assembly hall or in other public places, although no rigorous measures have been taken, but it has been effective. What is safe and what needs to be done, since it is not possible for amendments to act on these laws precisely because of the Rules of Procedure, is that some new things and some new members are foreseen, because it will not be accepted for procedural reasons. We are not even able to give any more quality amendments to this part, but because of this we are urging the Government to determine by sublegal acts or to make one amendment during budget rebalancing and prepare that part of the funds that are collected, and not less than one-third, goes to education and prevention in preventing tobacco-sustaining diseases. Another thing about the law -- we've made several amendments and a fundamental remark that not everyone here is in an equal position. For example, we have that importers who get a license for this job are not obliged to deposit 30 million dinars. Why? Why should the others be in a different position than they are? When we withdraw the permits, we have to provide that the permit or licence is withdrawn from the person who committed the offence or was punished by some punishment without being legally punished by a judicial verdict. It's just the finale. Here it is said that, when proven and achieved in law, it is possible to return everything. But I don't think this solution is correct, it's not good. We'll have an amendment. That's when it happens. I'm talking about what's now and what's been proposed by a legal solution. When there is an amendment, normally, we will vote for such an amendment that goes towards improving this solution. Also, this is about protecting domestic production. I hear some of the ideas we've given will be accepted. There were different ideas for the factories that are doing business today, we know that we have two - the tobacco industry Nis and the tobacco industry Vranje; in this sense we have made proposals for certain amendments, that the level of purchase of domestic production is down to 1,000 tonnes, starting with the fact that the Vranje industry will not be able to meet the conditions if 2,000 tonnes are put in, because there is no capacity for such production. Some here assure us that they will increase production. You know what, domestic tobacco can't go into all the cigarettes, it can't go into all the range. It must also be imported tobacco to improve the quality of certain cigarettes. The Minister of Agriculture didn't say a word about it. Whether he doesn't know it or not, it's possible, but he should know it and take certain steps in that sense. The decision to commit factories to hiring half of their processing facilities from domestic raw materials -- we will give up this 1,000-ton amendment if an amendment is adopted to commit factories to satisfy 50% of their capacities from domestic production. Furthermore, it is certain that the minister must take care of the preparation and the possibility of better doing the business of planting tobacco. It was said here, by our MPs and by other MPs, that there is not enough fruit material, that there is not enough seed material, that we don't even have an institute, that we don't have one who would be professional, qualified and quality in this business. This is a prerequisite for those climate areas in which tobacco can and is cost-effective, and it is expanding and more and more space is taking place. We have also heard certain problems brought out by MP Todorovic about the purchase and placement of tobacco. That's what the Ministry of Agriculture must be dealing with beyond that, if it wasn't for this legal solution which, in our opinion, is not good. Since the majority here will adopt, it is already happening and it is known in advance that such a proposal for a tobacco law will be adopted, no matter what arguments and what attitudes are made, we urge that these solutions be corrected through sublegal acts and give better quality and better solutions than provided for in this legal act and that a special part of the law that will deal with the primary production of tobacco is prepared and that everything that this primary tobacco production should have from legislation. Of course, no one escapes the fact that tobacco traffic should be controlled. This will not be achieved only by these measures, by the measures of punishment. We didn't have that amendment. If threatened penalties are not carried out, they shall be free of such great punishments. We suspect that they will be consistently implemented, from the experience we had in the previous period. The fact here is that tobacco was lost somewhere around a billion in the last year. Why this law was not then put on the agenda immediately after it came to the assembly procedure of June of the month; why, when it comes to hunting tobacco that is, as it stands here, tobacco treated as domestic production has not been adopted, and it has been in the procedure for nearly six or seven months. And finally, if this is what we as a parliamentary group are talking about and if all of our objections are adopted, that is, most of them, we may be able to accept such a solution, provided that the sublegal acts are governed by those areas that are not governed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25675	The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the National Socialist Group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25676	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to deal with one term from this law, and that's the term of transporting goods through Yugoslavia. I think it's good that it's been used, but I don't think it's worked out at all, and it's a very important category, and I think there's an extremely gray economy in that area. Besides tobacco, it seems to me that it's important here to observe both coffee and alcohol treatment, as well as oil. The practice of people who are involved in transport, who retain goods in the territory of Yugoslavia, is very simple - the goods are reported in transit, that they are coming out into some territory; we are very difficult to control whether there is a legal person or not, so it happens for example. and with autonomous provinces, or with the Republic of Montenegro, with the Republic of Serbia, Bulgaria, Macedonia and that environment, that you cannot determine whether this legal person being transported through the territory of Yugoslavia exists or not. Furthermore, there is no control at the border, when entering the exit, whether this person actually drove the goods (legal person or entrepreneur) and exported from the territory of Yugoslavia, to be exempt from taxes, or customs duties, depends on the type of goods, or whether they should have paid excise duty or not. I think this law deserved one basic analysis of the transport, because the existing legislation only observes the transport of goods in the formal legal sense, whether or not the packages of that kind have entered. The most commonly used types of transport are truck transport, railways, and rich and waterways. During the water transport route, a significant amount of the goods remained in the Serbian area. In my view, solutions in this area exist, there is a positive legal practice in countries in the environment, above all in the European Union, and it has long been applicable in this kind of problem; and, I think, this law has had to work on a whole area and look again at this from a fiscal point of view. When I add that hundreds of millions were based only on a single type of excise product, then in this whole matter, the excise duty will be found to have been over a billion euros in the area last year. These are huge sources of revenue for this country, it seems so important to me that many issues, and in my view, the most important issue of the functioning of national economies and upgrades (enlightenment, health, law, science, education, etc."represented a much easier solution problem and we would have no need to comment at all on whether Serbia needs donations or not. It seems to me that the national economy in this way is significantly compromised. These laws that we will have on the agenda these days - the Law on concessions, the Law on Privatisation - will not really be able to answer these questions fully unless we resolve this fiscal issue. This journey and practice in a civilized world, and we consider ourselves part of that civilized world, has been solved in a very simple way -- a transport company, a company or entrepreneurs, at the entrance to the country, burden the tax on traffic or excise duty, charge it, and when it comes out of the territory, pay it back. But he has to prove to the papers that there really was a ride, or there wasn't. It is the practice of European countries. It is positive, retains huge sources of income in the territory of these countries and has almost eliminated significant forms of evasion in many areas of such important fiscal categories. It seems to me that this regulation is as important as this law itself, and I'm treating it more from that fiscal point of view, because right through this way and through this form we'd get good income for the state of Serbia. It's a well-known practice, I don't know who's been abroad, or if you buy some quality goods, you get an account, and when you get out of state territory, the amount of taxes you've paid comes back to you in customs. If that applies to both natural and legal persons, and it shows practice, it's not clear to me why we didn't get into that area? I understand our bureaucracy and heritage and bureaucracy and the desire to simply work in this area as little as possible, but in this case it seems to be the most important state, because it is a guarantee and social peace, and a national economy, and a future, that is, culture, education, and all those areas of upgrade. It is estimated that there is indeed a billion euros missing; it seems to me that a solution has now had to be found, and it seems to me that it is a solution that must be found urgently in this parliament, to change the positive legal procedure in the tax area. There have been times before on this subject to talk, but it seems to me that now is the last time we have to deal with this matter and then many of the issues that are subject to the public simply won't exist. You can't look at treatment just through tobacco, because all excise goods have significant variations in them to avoid payment. We also have coffee shops, bigger and smaller, and there are many things in Serbia, but this is a manufacturer character, as well as in the tobacco area, and these solutions must enter the legal procedure by emergency procedure. So not only this law, but the kind of solutions that will solve it, which means the need for a strong state, and it will only be measured according to the fiscal strength of that state. I don't know if everyone had these arguments when they proposed this law and if anyone was doing a full-scale transport of goods through Yugoslavia. We can sort out a series of goods now, where there's a high tax burden, and where they're being held back. So, in the area of construction, you can deal with the issue of imports of iron, which is for you a tax category, cement and some other types of goods. We can count a series of goods here now. If we were to really add up this whole series and look at the overall problem of transporting goods through Yugoslavia, not to return now to drug transit, white slavery and all that is outside of the fiscal category, but if we take into account what is a fiscal category, then we would get to the figures that are very high and that provide Serbia with one more fuller economic and financial stability, not to say the stability of the national economy of this country. About that term -- the national economy, I think we should talk at one of the next sessions, because it seems to me to be question number one in this country. And finally, since this really exists here (and I warn that in other areas there are a series of details that are parafiscalities, important parafiscalities), it seems to me that we should urgently in the field of excise goods that we have the same treatment, if it is tobacco, and for other types of products. Then, to come here and ask the question of the national economy. Almost all of us have said - privatisation yes, but under these conditions and in this way it's obvious that there's a lot missing in these areas. Now I would like to remind myself of several acute problems currently happening in Serbia. So, since there's this extraordinary budget income, it's obvious that it can grow in that area, if we treat other excise goods in this way, through one-time security, to pay taxes, but it would have to be dealt with in another way. Not only can the tenants do so but they also have to prove by means of property that they have economic power to solve it, and that would lead to some source of income at least one billion or billion dollars and a billion dollars, which could be directed into these problematic areas, and above all I mean the area of the Bor and Majdanpek district, and there are problems about paying out sugar tails, paying out to tobacco producers. These are one-time solutions and the government can solve these problems by the end of the month, in the restructuring of the Pine Mine and other issues. This should really be talked about here without a sharpness and into these fiscalities, because it seems to us that through fiscal categories and of course the need to carry out a serious audit of interest rates and interest policies in the area of the banking system, in the way that it is currently done in Serbia, we could do so and then our mutual rhetoric would be quite different and that we would be dealing with another important topic for the lives of all Serbian citizens, regardless of the various political definitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25677	A minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25678	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try in these final discussions to sum up some of the elements of this discussion. First of all, I thank you because it seems to me that rarely any important question remains intact. Of course, there have been conflicting opinions but, in all things, with some exceptions, almost all MP groups have, in one way or another, admitted that this is progress in regulation according to what we have today. Far from hearing complex opinions about how much progress this is and how sufficient it is, but we can really say that if one such law is adopted, it will allow us to get closer to the goal of strengthening domestic production; further regulating this activity; determining the decision-making mechanisms in this industry, which will allow for greater transparency and accountability for those who make those decisions. That is why I will briefly touch three topics that, judging by yesterday's and today's discussion, were very present and were not, hands to heart, largely elaborated in this text, because they do not belong in this text, but they are obviously important topics. I will explain them in terms of what is in this text and what are the steps in some other initiatives that will cover those areas enough, so I will return to those three key objectives that I have mentioned, to see what this law is taking and to perhaps respond to a few of the concerns that have been heard during the debate. But to start with these three topics that are not the subject of this law, which are -- health, one number of elements regarding foreign trade and, finally, issues concerning tax policy. I'll start with a health issue. It is clear that any regulation can be played; as a Member of a parliamentary group just said - someone can think of and ask someone older to buy a pack of cigarettes; it is true, as it is true, and that in other countries, where there are such regulatory ones, it is always possible with the complicity of some to do something. But it seems to me that this Article 4, which is here precisely because we've talked a lot to health workers, with all those who want to stop the consumption of tobacco in our country, is at least one strong signal to those who sell cigarettes and those who might want to buy a pack of cigarettes for a minor, that this is something that is not supported in this country and by the National Assembly. There was also a lot of talk about advertising. One law cannot do everything, but it is certain that this debate cannot without having an effect on what the draft advertising law has predicted so far; it is clear to the Government, and we will discuss it when it comes to this before we send this bill to your consideration, that the issue of advertising in this domain (and other excise products) is a very important issue and that more strictness is in place, not less. In any case, as already heard, there is regulation and the first step is to respect it, such coffee is; it is clear that these inspection services and the competent authorities must work more. It's the only lesson we can take from this debate in the name of the government. We need to keep a close eye on what's going on on TV, see what's on billboards, what's going on in the paper about excise products, especially cigarettes. Of course, in the future draft, it should be very strictly regulated. As for several interesting ideas, and even amendments, I think that the DSS parliamentary group has submitted one amendment, and also a colleague from the SPS's parliamentary group had just talked about it, the question of whether special funds should be opened that would draw funds from these fees in order to make what is the ultimate goal, which is to curb tobacco consumption, financially supported. We come out of a period of public finances where we had several hundred fiscal forms. The problem that exists in that approach is next. The bureaucracy itself of collecting that money, the administration of these new taxes, and the costs they impose towards their commitment to the tax administration, and afterwards on the bulky side of the negative phenomenon that we saw when you provide any lower level of government with your own income, the reaction is (not always do not want to generalise) that the level of expenditure, especially for the costs of the institution itself, is increasing. That's where I see the risk of what you almost all spoke of unanimously, and that's the risk of bureaucratizing the agency itself or some other bodies that need to carry out the fight against tobacco use. So, on behalf of the Government, I'd like to make one proposal, because I think this debate has shown, or the figures themselves, that our country doesn't spend enough money to stop smoking and consume tobacco, which is that in the next few weeks, inevitably, and because of the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on its implementation, there is a budget rebalance for 2003, to do the same thing but in a slightly different way. It is that where it is to be found, and it is in the department of the Ministry of Health, now, if you vote this law, we come up with one estimate of regular and additional revenues that we will come up with through the application of one of these laws and then propose that we open a new budget position, specifically for that purpose, without creating a new imposition that should then be administered and without the risk of red tape. So, basically, to adopt one such proposal, but to make its implementation mechanism cheaper, with a lower risk of red tape. I'd say so much about the first one, and I think it's a key question of health, and we're just starting to talk about it. The next stop is the budget, where we need to see this new position, and then see this new advertising law, which needs to be further arranged, as well as the application of what already exists. There's a lot of it, and I'm sure you have the same problems in this house as we do. The government of the Republic of Serbia has decided not to tolerate smoking during sessions and at all meetings in the government building and it is very difficult, it is difficult to change these habits, but we are trying as hard as we can. It's about that first question of health. The second question concerns foreign trade. My colleague Tomic talked about it a few minutes ago. I think he's rightly noticed that there's one part of this industry that's not covered by this law, and it has to be covered. It's an outside store, one way or another. I see two very important questions here. The first question is import, and the second question is transportation. One country, Greece, is looking for a deposit in cash, because they've had a lot of problems with some guarantees, from every transporter who wants a single tow truck through the territory of Greece. At the same time as proposing to the National Assembly, the bill adopted an initiative towards the federal government of the SRJ with the corresponding amendments to the Law on Foreign Trade and Customs Law, which should literally introduce the same level and the same rigour for the two activities. I therefore announce that, after the adoption of the new law at Serbian level or, now that these two laws are at Serbian level, we will return to this home in a very short time to regulate these two very important areas, imports and exports in an adequate manner. It is not logical for them to be in this law, but it is certain that it will require some minor adaptations in this law, too, to bring it all down to the Serbian level. It's just, a lot of things happen at the same time. It was uncertain when that Constitutional Charter would be adopted. So, expect, as far as this issue is concerned, foreign trade, import and transport, an additional initiative for appropriate legal acts that are now at Serbia's level. The third issue that is extremely important, which is not entirely and even very little has been adopted here, is the issue of fiscal policy. Fiscal policy is important not only because we made 15 billion dinars at various levels last year, which, if I recall correctly, is 10% of the total revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This year we will have more income; so I think there may be something less due to other revenues, but around 7-8, no less, there will be revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget through these fees. The question arises, which will return over the next few months before this prized home, our fiscal policy in this area where the excise duty is specific, which means that the excise tax is paid in one amount, and that's the dinar amount per pack, which is, I'm sure, one of the key reasons why we managed to make more income and to contain the gray zone even from those who are legally working. Before these changes in fiscal policy, we had a big problem with the "washing" of papers; the papers that came for customs or taxation were one thing, and what was actually a reality and what appeared on the market was another thing. Because of this, taxation that is standard in the European Union and is already such a law in Montenegro, which raises the issue of harmonisation between Serbia and Montenegro, has a component so-called. an ad valorem of taxation, where part of taxation goes to the value of that product, and the supplement can be specific, which means mixed system, ad valorem and specific. I just want to say, and it's a very important message for those who will be active in this industry, one of the virtues of tax policy is its stability. We'll be very careful in any change. There was one question, I think, of the head of the DSS parliamentary group, about the opening of possibly a new category of so-called. domestic foreign cigarettes. I want to say here that such a demand exists, but I don't see enough arguments that one brand is produced, and the international one is, in Serbia, less taxed. So there are three categories and three categories, and we can talk about it openly, were categories that enabled us to recover from the Nis tobacco industry. That was clearly their goal and we see today and we have these results. I just want to announce here that any change in the fiscal domain will be considered very closely. Now, and that is the virtue of this tax code, there is no government that can change it without most of it in this home. So any fear that suddenly some kind of tax policy is going to change to like this or that, that's the question of the past. Whoever's in the government and whoever's the finance minister, that's not possible without coming to this house. I want it to be clear and that we have a debate and to see if we are okay and whether we should change that tax policy, whether it is in the light of the alignment of our tax policy with Montenegro (which is, of course, the goal), where there are elements of the ad valorem, that should be done. The second is the question that will be asked, and I open it today, whether one fourth category of cigarette taxation should be opened, the fourth category of international famous brands produced in our country; that is the question that will be asked (and the DSS has already asked) for those international companies that either become strategic partners of our domestic Nis or Vranje industry or want to open a cigarette factory in our country. I'm not convinced of all the arguments, but that's what needs to be weighd. We need to see what's good for our country. The decision will not be made by this minister or by the government. One such decision will be the decision of this home, it should have a majority. This issue of taxation and fiscal policy in the form of our accession to the European Union will inevitably be raised. I just want to announce here the stability in this fiscal domain and the very thoughtful change that exists. So much for these three topics we've set. In the opening statement, I pointed out that this law has three key objectives, so I would like to go back to these three key objectives, to consider several elements of this discussion, so let's see if it's possible to make any improvements in this bill through interventions, through amendments, and there are. The first question is the incentive of our domestic production. I can tell you there were a lot of speakers and there were a lot of stories on board. I think we'll be able to support an additional legal obligation not to buy just that minimum amount of tobacco, 2,000 tonnes. We tried again yesterday with the tobacco industry Vranje, it is not an obstacle for them, given what their perspective is, and it is good, especially now with one strategic partner and I hope it will decide this year. We will accept that there is one provision that there is a minimum of not only 2,000 tonnes, but 50% of the total production of cigarettes and tobacco products. We will legally further encourage our producers and we will suggest that whoever wants to produce cigarettes will have to buy much of it from our producers. Of course, it's not a guarantee, and there were stories about it earlier, that the amount of tobacco would be embedded in cigarettes. I think there's one pragmatic provision, because the reality is that we don't have enough quality varieties to get into all forms of cigarettes. It's a reality. Talking about something else would be demagogy. There is an obligation to buy, and of course there is a direct economic interest of cigarette manufacturers to work with manufacturers, to improve these varieties and, of course, to what they have to buy and install in their cigarettes anyway. I think that will allow our tobacco industry to do, for example. The Croatian tobacco industry has successfully improved the quality of raw materials in the last 15-20 years, so that they are literally a huge part of the need for their domestic industry stemming from these sources. That's very important. It's a big industry, and it's bringing big imbalances into our foreign trade. The more we buy raw materials, the bigger our trade deficit, and the bigger it is. So this measure is not only for domestic producers, but also for our foreign trade and for our country's foreign exchange balance. As far as the second objective is concerned, and that goal has been through strict conditions for business and strict penalties for non-compliance through this law, I can say, and this seems to have cleared up some misunderstandings enough -- there is no legal possibility here that any body chooses this or that. It is a matter of minimum conditions that someone might be able to deal with this activity, not that we have suspicious, as we have, unfortunately, and in the last two years, intermediaries dealing with one part of this industry; perhaps some groups that do not want to bind their economic interest to the longer term with our country. What might be the most visible thing, in some period after privatisation, and I mean not immediately after privatisation, that's giving permission to produce cigarettes, meaning in newly formed factories. So what we see here is that what we're asking all those who want to deal with this activity is that they literally have to have the ambition to be like the tobacco industry Vranje today, about. So there's no economic interest in any suspicious group that doesn't want to invest real money for years, to form stamps, to invest industrially unemployed several hundred people in our country and chaind by the first to encourage our domestic industry. But those who want to meet those conditions are welcome. I think with such conditions it is clear that it is in our national interest to bring foreign and domestic groups, who want to bind their economic interest to our territory. They'll be after that, let's hope from morality, but let's better rely on their economic interests, in an objective alliance with the state to fight smuggling, because that smuggling will hit them the most. That was said in this debate, and I can say that we are prepared to accept it as an amendment, although a little bit transformed, because there is one word that is not unhappy, to give additional legal certainty. Of course, the legislator and the government had the intensities to explicitly be indicated that the right to produce cigarettes for a given factory could not be taken away only by a misdemeanor, but by one judicial decision. This will give additional legal certainty to those who want to invest and, of course, the whole process must pass before they are legally deprived of the right to produce cigarettes. The third and last thing, which was the goal of this law and without a lot of surprises there were the most suspicions, which is: what is this agency going to do? What are these people gonna do, if it wasn't a magnet for corruption, if it wasn't a magnet for those who wanted to buy and get the market for themselves? The answer is that the agency is here to contain it. It was made in such a way that no one can willingly, in the silence and secrets of a cabinet, make very important decisions on this market alone. Seven resistors, four industry representatives, there's a minimum quorum of people who have to look at any more important decision. The public in the decision-making process, the necessity to present important decisions to the government of the Republic of Serbia, where there will be coalition governments in the further perspective. And after that, and that amendment will be accepted, you will see, at least twice a year, reporting to the National Assembly, to you, to the public. Is it small? It seems to me that there will be significant progress in this way, so that all those who make decisions in the area of the tobacco industry will know that the court of the public and their honor will always be present. I am sure that these very powerful reflectors, directed at all those who decide in that domain, will be one of the very important provisions in the longer term, that they decide in the interests of the state, not for some rope and petty personal interests. Therefore, honourable MPs, I appeal to you to uphold this law. This law cannot do everything, as we have seen in the domain of health, foreign trade, fiscal policy. He's part of the entire environment, which we have to make this industry heal, and it's permanent. At the same time, it is significant progress and I expect it to reduce the degree of corruption, smuggling. So I hope that within a long time, when we continue to finance and fight tobacco consumption, we will be able to move on to the right topics, which is that when we say - tobacco, we are not just thinking about smuggling (although it is, you will understand, and how important, when we talk about 15 billion dinars last year about fiscal revenues), but when we say - tobacco that we think about poison, health and great activity is directed towards reducing tobacco consumption in our country, especially for younger generations. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25679	I hereby conclude the search in principle and, on the basis of Article 84(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the following notice. Since the committees responsible, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Agriculture have either not completed the debate or have not delivered reports to the National Assembly on amendments, and since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not delivered an opinion on the amendments submitted on the draft law to the National Assembly, I hereby set a break of up to 15.00 hours, with the obligation of the chairman of the Committee and the Minister to submit reports to the National Assembly within that deadline. This afternoon's session will begin with a discussion in particular, on the basis of Article 136(3). Second notice: a session of the National Assembly of Serbia's Legislative Committee will be held today at 1400 hours in Hall I on the ground floor of the National Assembly building. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon. We have information that a report has been prepared by the Committee on Agriculture and is currently in the press, so it will be delivered to you. The Legislative Committee is at the end of the debate, so I would like to inform you that we will wait another ten minutes until reports on the amendments to both committees are delivered, so that we can open the debate in detail. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the reports we need to review the draft laws in particular are in the press office of the Assembly. [[Pause.]] I've got one piece. For information on the course scenario of the assembly session, if you agree, we can formally begin now. It is another five or ten minutes, when the ministry will enter the congregation and share your reports. They're really working on it. So this item of the agenda is not without a report and, under Article 84(2), I am informing you, as present MPs, because we have not formally started the afternoon session by establishing the quorum. It's really about another ten minutes. I'm opening a session in the afternoon. [[Pause.]] To determine whether we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the identification units. Here you go. I understand we have a quorum to work with. The day-to-day section ended with the conclusion of a principled search and the timing needed to deliver reports by the competent committees and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments submitted to the draft tobacco law. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. There is a word from MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25681	The President-in-Office, Mrs Comic, is honored fellow MPs, on the basis of Article 81. I propose to the Rules of Procedure that we work until the end of the debate in particular today, given that next week we also have an important Law on the selection of MPs in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro; Article 137. The Rules of Procedure regulate the duration of the debate and I suggest that the time of the amendments be three minutes, compared to five minutes, as scheduled. I ask the Parliament to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25682	I am putting on the vote by MP Sinisa Mitrovica to limit the debate on the amendments to three minutes and that today's session of the Second Extraordinary Session takes place until the debate is over in detail. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. (Employor Tomislav Nikolic asks for a word in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the MP to take his place. When we've finished voting on the proposal, then you'll get word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the vote. For 72, against 33, the abstentions were not voted 36, out of a total of 141 MPs. I find that it took 72 votes to vote, and 71 votes were sufficient, and I declare that the National Assembly adopted a proposal by Parliamentarian Sinisha Mitrovica to discuss the amendments for three minutes and that today's session will continue until the debate is over in detail. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, is seeking word for breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25683	I believe that you, in legal error, have committed multiple injuries to the Rules of Procedure, now, by this vote. First, you agreed to vote on two proposals by one vote, on two proposals, on two members of the Rules of Procedure. In these proposals one was according to the Rules of Procedure, which is a member who speaks about how long the debate on amendments took, and there you had the right to vote, to shorten, to hold the debate for less than five minutes. But under Article 81, which was called by MP Sinisa Mitrovica, you could not vote to extend the session today. No member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allows the National Assembly to continue the work. The MP who suggested it should have said on the basis of which member suggested it. Article 81 says the National Assembly works until 6:00. No, by the book, you kicked it out of the Rules of Procedure. It used to be - as usual, so the decision was made during working hours. Now there's no-- by the book. The National Assembly is working on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, from 10.00 to 18.00 hours, with an hour's interruption, possibly by heading 4. The assembly can work another day, make a decision to work another day, but it can't make a decision to work longer than 1800 hours. It's your Rules of Procedure, for which you voted, and no longer so brutally, unscrupulously to step on the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't make sense. The president of the National Assembly waited for the last day, in which we had a deadline for the amendment, to schedule this extraordinary session for us. She held the government's proposal in the National Assembly for four days, didn't send it to the MPs, so we wouldn't have time for amendments. Then with one sentence, she said in a dry air, there were reasons for me to schedule a session within seven days, and she didn't say, "Mrs. MPs, we decide to give you a deadline for amendments as well." She can't just set herself up and cut our session schedule, and then the deadlines for the amendments move. Look what it looks like when a session is scheduled within two days. The government cannot make a decision on amendments on its draft law, which does not have many amendments, for five days. You know when was the last day of the amendment - Saturday. This decision is not valid - let's continue our work today after 1800 hours. He can't, don't play. One Constitutional Court, in which there are judges who have courage and who judge by knowledge, will dare, I swear to you, he will dare to undo all the decisions you have made. You have here 13 citizens who are represented as MPs, brought to a administrative error that they are no longer MPs, or that they are MPs, and you are in a legal error to be led by smart people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25684	Since the MP has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to point out in an explanation that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, as this is a proposal by the MP of the People's Parliament concerning the time of work of the National Assembly, one when it comes to discussion in particular, and the other about the total time needed for this debate. Would the MP like the meeting of the Administrative Committee to be scheduled to discuss the breach of this Rules of Procedure? (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: Yes. ) I find that MP Tomislav Nikolic requests a session of the Administrative Committee and I will order that a session be held during tomorrow's working day, which will discuss the application to the Rules of Procedure. We move on to the discussion of the bill in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirovic, Zivodarka Dacin, Rade Bajic and Milos Nesovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25685	Ladies and gentlemen, since the time has been cut short, I will try to explain, within the proposed deadline, Amendment 1, which refers to Article 2. Proposal for a tobacco law. In fact, this article only provides for an interpretation of the term. A number of SPS MPs submitted the amendment for two reasons. First, which considers it unusual for foreign expressions and interpretations to be determined by one law such as the tobacco law; there are specific normative acts that define the issue. Secondly, in what is given there are many incorrect definitions, which are just saying that some definitions are given in half, and that in other interpretations and meanings there is no complete solution. That's why we suggest that this whole article 2 be deleted. Just take point 1. These are common definitions. I was listening to the Minister of Agriculture this morning, when he probably made a lapus as the tobacco sowed, and not disintegrated. Item 1, point 1) reads: tobacco is made up of leafed plants, tobacco species. Look out, cultivated, but it's not said, it's probably understood that this cultivated plant does not contain vitamin C, but contains nicotine and yesterday we heard it contains more than 42 known toxins. So it was supposed to give some interpretation, not just to indicate what this cultivated plant is. This is so much sooner if it is known to what extent tobacco is dangerous not only for the health of young people but also for adults. Yesterday we heard we were in second place, and I think third after Turkey and Greece, by the number of smokers, or people who consume tobacco. It's very bad and dangerous for one nation at a time. If this trend continues, and I think it will, in 2004 at the Athens Olympics we will be able to win a gold medal as far as this is concerned. Secondly, it may be less known that in Serbia today, because of this interpretation and use, or consumption of tobacco, we have 400,000 young couples who are unable to naturally have offspring. Of these, 38% are reported to be due to overuse of cigarettes, i.e. tobacco. I just said where we are in the world, but as far as minors are concerned, tobacco is increasingly present today not only in high school but also in primary schools. We have enough data that young, youngest, third and fourth grade already tried cigarettes. As for minors, we share the first place in Europe with peers from Bulgaria. The biggest problem is when it comes to the use of cigarettes and women. It is known that Swedish women are the first in Europe to smoke cigarettes, and Yugoslav women take a high second place. Maybe that'll change soon. What do we suggest we delete this for? Point 4 of Article 2 explains banally what tobacco production is, that it covers the production of rasda etc.; instead of this Article 2 of the tobacco law being used to ban tobacco advertising, we give some banal interpretations. Yesterday the finance minister said he was in a dilemma whether to ban tobacco or not. There's no dilemma. It has to be banned anyway, so it wouldn't have happened what we talked about yesterday about that tobacco, so I wouldn't have advertised it, I'm finishing it, which is why it's advertised on TV.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25686	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dusan Cvetkovic, Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? He has the word MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25687	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, which is obviously written so that only my Leskovci can understand it. I can probably stand the criticism of what I'm going to say, my dears, we don't all have falls, but we're still getting along so much that we can interpret. I will read to you what the article reads: "It is forbidden for tobacco producers to put on the market cut or otherwise smoked tobacco (unworked tobacco). "That in Leskovac can certainly be said, but I think it is completely illogical that the government and the committees who discussed this claim that this is well written. If this is well written, I'm not a hazelnut, but I'm a nut, because I'm sure this can't stand the way it says. But when DOS says, it looks like he can do it. I claim that the people who need to translate this law will laugh at us with a ghastly laugh that we don't know how to fix this basic thing. The second point reads: "The ban on selling to minors and the warning of health damage". The second view is completely incomprehensible, and I have suggested that this attitude be deleted with a group of MPs, as it turns out that it practically prohibits the presentation of a health - harmful warning. Please, fellow MPs, no matter what two committees have refused this amendment, let us consider or let us agree to write in the Greeding Language, which has only two crashes and then everything will be much simpler.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25688	Does anyone else want a word from the authorized participants in the debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25689	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the predecessor explained the reasons for accepting this amendment, and I don't think there's any rational reason for the amendment not to be accepted. Whether the reader did not read carefully enough or carefully enough, or simply has an aversion to this parliamentary group, so he does not want to accept it, but I do not think it is because three amendments have already been accepted. Therefore, I see no good reason not to accept this amendment, because it is about language correction, about harmonising in decline. And the worst part is that the justification for refusing this amendment defends that very mistake. I'll try to read you the argument given by the government, since we've now received it: "Amendment is not accepted. Putting into an appropriate decline of the word "stinked tobacco" is related to the words "in another way", or any amount of dried tobacco, rather than at the beginning of a sentence establishing in the presentation a ban on the traffic of cut or shredded tobacco. Amendment 2 is not accepted because this article contains only one position." In addition to this tab, there is technical inconsistencies. In no way can it be determined whether the second position of this Article 3 applies to the title or to item 2, is not drawn either in cursive or increased letters, or in any other way, and then it is stated that what is explicitly prohibited, whether cut or otherwise tobacco is placed on the market, is subsequently prohibited from giving to minors. I think there's a redundancy to be carried out here and I need you to get this title out, or I need you to accept that item 2 is deleted to put on a new title and that this language editor is executed and this amendment is accepted. I think it's perfectly logical and I don't see any reason not to accept it, even if it came from Leskovec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25690	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not just a technical amendment, this is a sign of how written people are who are handing us bill proposals. We've warned you more than once. This is about a sentence that's in two downfalls. In one sentence here you have the first and fourth downfall. Our promoter, a representative of the government, says it's okay, because he thinks it's okay. The Serbian government should have a lecturer who will tell her, if this is about tobacco, then he will be crushed, you will spend it as the first fall in both verbs or will be depreciated, so you will do it as the fourth fall in both the verbs mentioned here. It is incomprehensible that the government responds that it was referring to a part of the sentence and that it neglects the beginning of that sentence, which determines which fall will be the verb in that sentence. These supremacies have really confused the messengers. It could've been without him, without that title, and it could've been with him. It doesn't matter how important it is that I'd be ashamed to read Article 3 of the elementary school and tell them it's the right thing to say. I don't think those kids would have a passing grade in Serbian. Here's to read, I don't think anyone read that article: "It's forbidden for tobacco producers to put on the market cut or otherwise smoked tobacco". It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25692	The word is from the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25693	The MPs are right. We need to make this correction, and we're gonna do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25694	I'm asking for a stenogram just to get in, because you can't accept the entire amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25695	The problem is this, there is no position 2, so we weren't able to accept the amendment as it is. Of course, you need to accept what's said through the newsroom. I apologize to the MPs for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25696	Please, MPs, a little attention. It's also a procedure and a stenogram of the National Assembly. We cannot vote in voting day to accept this amendment, because the amendment is accepted and rejected in general. The proposing representative agrees that language intervention in one part of the amendments submitted by a group of MPs to the SPS Group is correct. I ask that it be taken into account in the technical order and that in the text of the law on which we vote in the second row of the first position after the word "in another way" are the words "stricken tobacco (unprocessed tobacco)". Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 4 on which the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not easy to defend the amendment if we want to perform demagogues from this pay phone. In fact, the draft law provided for Article 4 of the First Position to prohibit the sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products to minors. Not in the desire to allow minors to be poisoned, but in the desire that if the Serbian government really wants children well, it stimulates them to resolve child protection in a completely different way, I have suggested that this member be deleted. This will be a practically inapplicable member of the law, as is still the case, from 1978 or 1979 on the ban on smoking in closed rooms, which has long been not respected at all. Then it was brought again around 1990, and eventually it came down to the ban on smoking at public events, indoors and in public transport vehicles, and yet it does something good. The bill promoter clearly tells us what he wanted with this member. In reason, it does not say -- Serbia's government wants to protect children from tobacco use. When parents can't convince them to quit, because it's harmful to their health, we'll ban them from buying, instructing young parents to start raising children. No, the government doesn't say that. She says - this member is forbidden to sell cigarettes and other tobacco products to minors and does not explain why. There's one explanation, which is in article 52, where he says that for the violation of this member in the legal entity, the person responsible will be punished by 1,000 to 10,000 dinars; the legal person will be punished, as I recall, with 10,000 to 50,000 dinars; and the entrepreneur, the one who sells cigarettes at the kiosk, with 2,000 - 25,000 dinars, or the seller with a fine of 1,000 to 10,000 dinars. These are rigorous, dragonish fines which, I think, and for crimes are not at this high level prescribed. They point to one of those thousands, tens of thousands of spies the minister told us about catching some kid buying cigarettes, so the seller could be punished. You want to raise youth, children, minors? Start from state television, from state newspapers, from your behavior in public life. Start with what you're propagating. There is in the Serbian people and traditions, and history, and faith and morality, there is something to potential from the Serbian people that our children could raise. Take a look at some programs and state and other TV. Look what raising children looks like. That TV of yours is just some ladies all over God's day, the studio's a hectare, and there's sequins, singers naked, scattered, and that other television is constantly movies about homosexuals and lesbians, and the third is exclusively about heavy crimes, about muggings... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... Head-cutting, drug abuse is being propagated almost every step of the state media. Now we're gonna ban the kids from buying cigarettes at the kiosk. Why didn't you stop them from smoking underage faces? Why didn't you write that while you were taking care of the kids? We forbid kids to smoke, so we beat up parents whose kids smoke. It'd be a bigger effect than this. You know the ways to play this. I'll tell you one. When I was a kid, I didn't have the money to watch football games and I was standing with 50 or 100 kids outside the front door and it was like, "Uncle, bring me in, Uncle." That's when the one with the ticket could bring the kid in. That's how it's gonna be now - Uncle, buy me cigarettes, I smoke and I can't smoke, none of them give me up, nobody treats me, they just forbid me to buy cigarettes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25698	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25699	It is not disputed to make the provision as such to play in this case. We know that in other countries, the example works, and we have something similar in our legislation, access to places where alcohol is poured cannot have underage faces. It is not just us, but this provision is there because many associations of families, health workers and everyone else said that, and there is, of course, an MP right that it is not impossible to play this provision, this is sent a very strong signal that it is not right to sell cigarettes to minors, that it is wrong for minors to start smoking, that it is wrong to play uncle for them and that it is not right that in one society, as you and I see, on the traffickers literally children of 11, 12 years of age buy cigarettes for themselves without any problem. I would say, what's called the law, it's something that's a civilizational decree, and I think with this member this house is going to send a strong signal and a message that minors shouldn't have access to cigarettes, and I'm confident that this won't be in vain, far from it. I urge you not to vote this amendment and to remain one of these provisions that will show that this home and this country are beginning - and God knows how much effort and years it will take to narrow down the circle of smokers - to take this job a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25700	Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment wants the People's MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25701	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have proposed that Article 4 be amended in order for the first position to remain the same: "The sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products to minors is prohibited", but in the second position - every tobacco product must highlight the content of nicotine and condense, i.e. tar, as well as the inscription "smoking is harmful to health". Any advertising of tobacco products and tobacco products producers will be fined. Legal persons up to five million dinars, and natural persons up to 500,000 dinars. In the end, the tobacco agency is obliged to control the application of this member. The government has rejected this amendment on the grounds that a health-related warning about the harmfulness of smoking, as set out in Article 2, is governed by some other law. Why wouldn't it be in this law? I think, Mr. Minister, and you know it well, that on all cigarettes that are packed, i.e. products in Western European countries, it is mandatory on every pack of cigarettes - smoking is harmful to health, and in signature - your Ministry of Health. I've lived in Germany for 20 years and don't tell me what's out there. It's the same thing as nicotine content, condensate content. The stamp must include the price of the product, as well as the number of cigarettes you have in the box. There's no such thing here. I don't understand why this law would be any closer, and I agree that some other law might make it possible to discuss it more comprehensively, something perhaps more extensive and more detailed. If we want to approach the European Union, get close to their laws, make sure there is no advertising of tobacco products, and if there are perhaps some private magazines and newspapers, then it is mandatory that the warning I mentioned earlier, which is the content of nicotine and tar, as well as that sign that smoking is harmful to health, in the signature - Ministry of Health. I don't understand why the government turned this down. I have to say that I expected that there might be some language editorial, or something in that text will change, but that the essence should remain the same, and I hope that the Government will arrange this for some other regulations, and that means that there is a number of cigarettes and the price of that product on the excise stamps, as well as this warning that I just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25702	The word has been made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform, and MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25703	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, only in the shortest possible: this member defines the ban on selling cigarettes and other tobacco products to minors and also defines the obligation of the manufacturer, i.e. the trader, that each pack of cigarettes, or each pack of another tobacco product, must contain a prescribed warning of the harmfulness of smoking, in accordance with the law. But we come into one problem, which is that we can't actually sanction the kind of problem that occurs when this branch of our industry is going through other segments of advertising. This is resolved by the Law on Broadcasting and by a whole set of other laws, which must be passed, but the tobacco law needs to define the ban and it is done, and the ways in which this ban can be violated can really not be in this law, because it would actually be an antithesis of the whole case that this law deals with. This is a tobacco law, not a law on a correct campaign that can be conducted in the media and that applies to tobacco, alcohol, drugs and a whole series of problems that we face because our media space is not arranged. This law is not an obstacle to a more precise definition. If we had entered a more detailed definition, we might be in a position to call for tobacco law and say the tobacco law allowed him a certain kind of freedom that other law does not allow. This has been avoided and I think this is step two. The first is done by law on broadcasting services and of course we will very carefully perform through the information law and all those accompanying laws, which must replace the shortcomings that are now visible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25704	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25705	This amendment should be rejected because it allows the advertising of tobacco products, with a warning of harmfulness. The government has not responded precisely enough to the MPs who have submitted this amendment. The government should have written - the amendment is not accepted because advertising tobacco products is prohibited. That would be the right answer for not accepting. No excuses and no conditions under which tobacco products can be advertised. Advertising of tobacco products is prohibited and, of course, it will now be very difficult to explain to minors, if the amendment is adopted or if this practice continues, and the minister has made a promise, one of his many, that he will personally prohibit advertising and disguised cigarette advertising, that he will work on it. He said it would work. This is the minister who works most in the Serbian government. Too bad he's working on the fines, he better be doing some other work. It's gonna be hard to explain to minors how to advertise cigarettes, and when they go shopping, they don't let them buy cigarettes. So there's no duplicity. If you advertise cigarettes, then they'll be bought by children, and if you don't advertise them, then you can also ban the sale of minors.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25706	Replica to MP Tomislav Nikolic's comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25707	Mr Tomislav Nikolic misread me. Article 4(2) is amended. There's a correction you probably got, where it says that any advertising of tobacco products and tobacco products producers will be punished. It's a correction and she's in the process. While I'm here, let me say that in the last position of Article 4. The bill reads: "The Minister in charge of Health Affairs is closer to regulating how to highlight the warning set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this article, on the proposal of the tobacco agency". What if the agency doesn't make any suggestions? Then there won't be any intervention of the Minister of Health. In that sense, it was also this amendment, in Article 4, that said, "The tobacco agency is obliged to control the application of this member."
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25708	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic together submitted the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone in the name of the promoter want a word? The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25709	The respected presidency, brothers and sisters of Serbs, the respected representatives of national minorities and ethnic communities, did not discourage me from the remarks made by Mr. Minister in yesterday's opening statement, that many would try to mock the member. On behalf of the Party of Serbian Unity, I represent the amendment to Article 4(1) of the tobacco law, which refers to the ban on the transport of cut and shredded tobacco. Namely, the legislator in Article 4(1) proposes: "It is prohibited to sell cigarettes and other tobacco products to minors". The Soviet Parliament's group proposes that this attitude be changed and that "young people" be replaced by the words "children up to 14". We consider it more appropriate to ban the sale of tobacco products to children under 14 years of age, because it will be easier for sellers to identify and determine with certainty which of the customers is minor and who is not. In the past or a long time ago, when my generation was underage, it was easy to conclude from the looks of it, or growth, whether it was a minor, whether it was a child aged up to 14 years, a minor aged 14 to 16 or a minor aged 16 to 18. Now, thanks to probably better living conditions, generations that are growing are so developed that it's hard to figure out what kind of age it is. It will surely be very difficult for the seller to conclude whether it is a minor or a minor, unless he can legislate that person, and there is no authority to ask the person to legislate or any other correction to which that person will prove his age. There's one more thing that's important here. It seems that we do not have in mind those old faces that welcome any help, or even this help in the form of buying cigarettes. Please support this amendment of the Soviet Union and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25710	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25711	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the only member of the bill's bill where the billmaker wants to show how he takes care of children, or young people. If it is caught that a retailer bought cigarettes, a minimum sentence for the company, a responsible person in the company and for the trader is 12,000 dinars, and the maximum penalty is 70,000 dinars. I am responsible for saying that there will be a minimum of seven - eight penalties per day for every store in the territory where it is located. That the number of smokers in this time period has increased -- it is, especially when assembly sessions are and when people watch these sessions and when they see all the laws being proposed, and no law is useful for the citizens of Serbia. Then whoever smokes one box a day starts smoking two and three boxes, sends his child to buy a store, not to miss something, what Minister Djelic or one of the legislators will say. We believe that this member is very rigorous and we suggest up to 17 years of age a minor. That it's true that DOS doesn't take care of young people, shows how much tuition it has been lately, doesn't take care of young people who finish high school, don't have a job, don't have college graduates also don't have a job. Young people who were employed will now have to, once the employment law has been passed in this assembly, and have worked under contract, to lose their jobs and have no future. To finish, DOS wanted to show this member how to take care of young people, about young people. That's not true. If this law is adopted in general, 50% of the stores will be closed, and only a few stores will be large, and several wealthy people, those who have co-operated with the government, or DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25712	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dusan Cvetkovic, Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic together. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. On behalf of the applicants, the word for the amendment has a National MP, Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25713	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, colleagues and colleagues, a group of 12 MPs of the SPS Group has proposed an amendment to Article 4 with the intention of making it more operational, making it more plastic and more enforceable, so in that sense I ask Mr. Djelic to accompany it, not in the sense that things are complicated. In fact, members of the 4th colleagues who spoke before me submitted amendments with three different aspects. What we insist on is something else. We believe that Article 4 paragraph 1: "No sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products to minors" should stand, although we do not dispute that the aspect or approach that Mr. Toma Nikolic has explained is quite possible and acceptable. Secondly, that each pack of cigarettes, or each pack of another tobacco product, must contain a list of warnings about the harmfulness of smoking, in accordance with the law, we also consider that it should, and if it could be more than it stands here. Third, in the position of the 3rd Minister in charge of health affairs, it will arrange a way to highlight the warnings set out in Article 4(1) and (2). In the end, what we think isn't necessary, Mr. Minister, is written on the proposal of the tobacco agency. Completely unnecessarily inserted, so we suggested that our amendment, after the word " Member", be put to the point instead, and "on the proposal of the tobacco agency" delete itself. There's more reason for that. Let me remind you that Article 5 lists all the jobs the Agency is carrying out. There are - organisation and implementation of a public tender for companies; establishing the fulfilment of the conditions for trading in large tobacco products, as well as proposing to the Government to grant a marketing licence; determining the fulfilment of the conditions for the conduct of retail trade; coordination of activities, etc. So, there's nowhere in the job description or jurisdiction that the health agency is going to make a proposal like this. We think it's completely unnecessary, because the agency can not make a proposal; it can lobby; it can favour; it can do nothing in that case we take away the right and jurisdiction that the Ministry of Health and the minister should have in logic. In this way, this member would be more usable, and we needlessly give jobs to an agency for which there is no reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25714	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is acceptable to us because, with the amendment to Article 5, we continue through the whole law to implement the idea that we do not need this agency and that it is only invented as a parasite in Serbia's budget, which will spend another part of the budget, the funds hard collected by Serbian citizens. But I'm thinking about this Article 4th point 1 that says that it forbids the sale of cigarettes to minors. If a 17-year-old comes to a kiosk to buy cigarettes, and imagine that there's a possibility that he's been smoking cigarettes for three years, whether you're smokers or you're non-smokers, or you're in society, were you in a situation to lose your cigarettes? I've had a chance to see people who don't have enough cigarettes behave in prison. 25 years ago, I was a smoker, and then on Sundays, they were rarely able to buy cigarettes, and I happen to lose my cigarettes, and I know how I felt. As much as you want to protect this child with this law, for God's sake, no matter how much your goal is, imagine that child who's a three-year-old smoker who can't buy cigarettes. Or imagine the reverse situation, instead of the kids buying their parents now that boy or girl is going to tell my father and mother -- go buy me cigarettes, these don't let me buy cigarettes. If parents know their kids suck, will they say I'm not going to buy you a cigarette, here's a chance to leave a tobacco, and I didn't raise you to smoke, or he'll say, "Give me a son," but now you give me a allowance like I gave you when you bought me cigarettes. Think about it, a large number of crimes in Serbia, the worst, most unspeakable, are done by junkies to get another dose. Smoking has very similar symptoms and appearances when someone comes into abstinence. Think about what can happen. Those 17-year-olds are all here in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25716	The word is from MP Joca Arsic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25717	A fellow MP, Pavlovic, has explained here, and I just want to add one more thing - the reason for the refusal of this amendment says that the amendment is not accepted because it does not stand in the powers of Article 5 of this law that we are discussing today, and that there is a provision that according to this article, item 2 of point 6) of the Agency also performs other affairs in accordance with the law and statute, therefore, and this law. Please, it is not disputed that in the description of each and every company in the job description is said - and other tasks that the direct manager gives him are in the task of doing the jobs that are scheduled, where all that is considered to be fit, so that agency can also deal with some five, seven, or twenty-five jobs, and we want the law to define the framework and manner of business of that agency. If we open this up, it's already a special question, besides whether it's even necessary to build an agency when there's a Ministry of Agriculture, when there's jobs at the Ministry of Agriculture that this agency is going to do, that are assigned to it and why we're building a parallel organization. That would be on the one hand, and on the other hand here it's about the powers of a clean profession, so health supervision, the supervision of a health minister, and I don't see how an agency that isn't in that degree of expertise can propose a solution, and here it's said that it's going to be a small operating body that's going to do these jobs. If that authority should grow to have, in its composition and powers, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Finance, etc., then it is already growing into an organ that is very large, serious and significant. That is why we believe that these jobs cannot be subject and the agency's proposal but exclusively the health minister, i.e. the health ministry normally run by the minister, who is here and a member of the board of directors, as proposed by law. For these reasons, we believe that this amendment should also be accepted and this last position - the authority of the agency, deleted; nothing mind, the same jobs will be done, there will be no harm or cause them, and it can cause consequences that will cost more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25718	We move on to the proposal to delete Chapter II and Article 2. From 5 to 12. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted a joint amendment proposing that Chapter II and Article be deleted. From 5 to 12. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. In the name of the applicants, the word has been given by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25719	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party, we have submitted this amendment and we wish it would be adopted, and the reasons are not only in the reasoning we have given but also in the text of the law that regulates this matter. According to Article 5, the agency performs tasks for which other state authorities are responsible, it is said above all that the agency organises and conducts a public tender, then proposes to the government to grant authorisation for the production of tobacco products. It shall then carry out the tasks relating to: establishing the fulfilment of the conditions for dealing with large-scale trade; establishing compliance with the conditions for dealing with retail tobacco and tobacco products: coordinating the activities of authorities and organisations in the area of control of illegal tobacco traffic, etc., as well as monitoring the situation on the market. It is obvious that these are competences which are explicitly assigned to certain ministries and their professional services, i.e. inspections, such as establishing the fulfilment of the conditions for production, for the operation of traffic, etc. We all know that the competent inspections are, then, that the coordination of the activities of the authorities and organisations in the area of combating illegal trafficking are tobacco, as well as anything else that is illegal, in the jurisdiction of the MUP, the Republic Administration of Public Revenue, Customs, etc. So I think we've made it perfectly clear that this member is absurd. Also, Article 9 leads all the way to absurdity, as it says that in the board of directors there are ministers of agriculture, trade, health, finance, internal affairs, directors of the Republic Administration of Income and Customs. It is known that the agency accounts, or reports to the government, so it turns out that these people report to themselves. One logical question arises - what will the inspector do in any area, when he encounters some illegality and some lack in the business of the agency or in the business of the work of the agency? He should write his boss a report, and it's clear what his fate will be and what the fate of that application will be. And we're also asking a very practical question, which we didn't get an answer to, and we could now -- how many employees are going to work in this agency, what will be the salaries, whose children will be, or the favorites of those who will have the privilege of working in this agency? We think that if the competent state authorities are doing their job, there is absolutely no need to form a special agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25720	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the next amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that Article 5 of the proposed law be deleted. If the amendment, which I have filed on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, is accepted, we have deleted the existence of a legal institution, which should be called - the agency, as well as many others before this, whose operation, and in particular the payment of its operation, is not foreseen in the 2003 budget projection, if I am not mistaken. So we don't have any financial resources in the budget for the establishment and operation of this agency. In Article 7, if I am not mistaken, it is said that funds for the work of this agency will be paid out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so the question is, is this so transparent and so reformative, how did you teach us until a few days ago? Especially because it's impossible for you to come up with such a brilliant reform idea the other day, when you put this bill into the assembly procedure, but I guess it had to come to this much earlier, at a time when you were giving us the Budget Act here for adoption, which we also know how it was adopted. The SRS parliamentary group believes the proposal should not be accepted, the Serbian government's proposal, because only further red tape is being made. Because if it is said here, and especially in the government's explanation of why this amendment of mine refuses, that the real reason for putting total production, tobacco and tobacco goods into legal frameworks is, then the whole story of Minister Djelic and all the other representatives of the government, who have already said that they have put it in legal frameworks, shows that this is not enough reason or is not the real reason. We have heard that now everything is already under the legal framework, that everything is clear, transparent, that there is no more smuggling or that it is reduced to the least possible measure. Stanko Subotić - Cane Žabac, this Petar Matic, this Peconi, etc., they happen to serve here only to simply show up some of their names, otherwise they do not have any greater significance, so the government would say. But anyway, we don't have a clear reason for what this agency is going to do, and why does it need the state at all, what are the ministers in this agency going to do? He says they won't have any material compensation. Then what will Minister Vesenov do at the agency? Do you believe that Dragan Veselinov will sit in that agency, not receive any compensation and have no interest? You don't believe either, or anyone else, because there's a conflict of interest, and it's pure and simple as beans. There's no great philosophy, it's clear as day, and no one believes. And he knows he's not going to do it, but he's going to think about whether he's more comfortable with "BAT" Stanko Subotic Canet, or Pera Matic "Phillip Morisa", or whether he's going to be Peconi, and I don't know what offer he's offering, so who's going to do it anymore. And you, Minister, know well (since I'm aware, you know that we all know what's going on in the government, with all the problems you've had about Tobacco and a lot of other things) that there aren't 100,000-euro gifts or 100,000-euro gifts, but there are millions, two, three million euros, etc., so it's not by chance that at the head of the board of directors, of those 11, all of them are ministers, or members of the government. The government is putting another strategic branch under its full control and the question is whether it will be able to contain smuggling or whether it will be the exact opposite of smuggling. In this way, there is another monopolization, complete monopolization. The government would put everything under its control, administrative management, and we don't see any pure profit and what it is clear what citizens will be able to have, what citizens will be able to get, if the establishment and work of such an agency is accepted. You have an obligation to tell us how much it's going to cost, how much budget funding has to be allocated, and that's not in the bill of this law; you haven't even verbally informed us how much money the state has to allocate, how many taxpayers to single out? Here, today we have learned, it may be interesting for citizens, and I would ask you, Minister, to pay attention -- instead of taking money from citizens to set up such an agency, it is better not to give the rights to the Shiptars in southern Serbia not to pay electricity, because Serbian refugees pay electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25722	People's MP, I warn you, you've overstepped your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25723	Here I come, be patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25724	People's MP, it's not about my patience, it's about respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25725	Serbian refugees pay for electricity. Our poorest layers of the population are paying for electricity, and you know, Mr. Minister, that from below Covic and others are sending you some special memos every day, which are freed from electricity payments by Shipari from Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje to preserve peace. And another question, transparently -- I see that we are getting some amendments here, where the Labour Party of Serbia writes, and above, it is less visible: the Labour Party of Serbia. I didn't hear that party participate in the election, but there are all sorts of miracles in Serbia, so this isn't impossible anymore either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25726	You haven't spoken in six minutes. Due to the lack of respect for the Rules of Procedure, with the fact that the representatives of your parliamentary group are very often called upon to respect the Rules of Procedure, I am asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure as well. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25727	At this time, you have injured Article 137. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "The debate in particular takes place by members... " etc., "and may participate in the debate: the applicant of the amendment, if the amendment proposes several MPs, the authorised representative of these MPs; the motion for an act; the rapporteur of the committee; the president, i.e. the representative of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative of the Government. "I just wanted to warn you that we have amendments to the parliamentary groups, signed by several MPs. I don't object that for every amendment, any other MP, from the signatories, comes out and talks, I'm just objecting that it wasn't approved for us when it was that former secretary of the National Assembly, so I'm asking you now to establish it as a principle. So, if you sign the amendment from one parliamentary group of several MPs, you will not ask for the authority of one of them to be a representative of the amendment's applicants, since you are not asking for it today and you will not insist that the first-signed be the one to explain the amendment, but also Serbian radicals, if there are more signatures, ask if any of you want to explain the amendment. If that's the principle in the future, we'll be in agreement with that, and if it doesn't, I'll keep warning you about this yellow book.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25728	By chance, the yellow covers of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Did you comment on the violation of article 137, which referred to the debate at the moment and given the word to MP Aleksandr Vukic, or did it refer to the previous case when MP Slobodan Pavlovic received his word? (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: The whole life is one moment. ) The MP throws out of place, breaking the Rules of Procedure, that life is one moment and I am glad that one moment of our lives is shared in this assembly with a common goal of doing jobs for the benefit of the citizens and the state of Serbia. So, does your objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure refer to the situation that MP Slobodan Pavlovic was given the floor? In that case, if it concerns the debate, which is currently under way around Article 5, only MP Alexander Vukic signed this amendment and he received his word. The Rules of Procedure are not strictly applicable, the order you quoted after the speaker in this case is a representative of the Government and a proposer of the Act. I find there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Does MP Tomislav Nikolic want the same session of the Administrative Committee, which he has already requested for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, to be the same remark? He's not answering for a word. The MP does not declare himself. There is a word from the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25729	I would just like to answer a few questions, which may arise from what has just been said about the costs of this agency, the way it is decided and whether this agency and the decision-making way can lead to more or less corruption. Of course, the answer is that this agency won't cost much, so I'll explain why; that this decision-making will lead to a major suppression of the possibility of bribery and corruption and I'll try to say why it wasn't in Serbia's 2003 budget, which you voted in this house at the end of last year. As far as costs are concerned, you will notice that several members of this bill have made it clear that these are entrusted transactions and that this agency works on the principle of public service. So she doesn't have an inspection service and that was one of the reasons, I didn't just answer the word, why shouldn't she be controlling advertising. I think the head of the parliamentary group, Ceda Jovanovic, was talking about it. This will be a very small agency, which will have 10-15 employees maximum, who will do the jobs that are entrusted here. They won't " usurp" because they can't do it legally, nor will they do the jobs of already existing ministries or public services. As far as the decision-making process is concerned, one of the problems that existed in our system, and I'm not saying that until the end of it is eliminated, is the possibility that one person or one vertical decision-making decision-making can be made and, additionally, that these decisions are not made public, nor that there is the possibility that those who do not participate in this decision-making process come up with accurate information as to how that decision happened. I would like to draw the attention of the esteemed MPs that in this case there is no one minister or one service, or the agency itself, who can decide on any more serious matters regarding tobacco. On the contrary, there were concerns in the industry, people who want good to this industry, today's producers, who share this desire to regulate it further, that so much transparency can lead to a lot of hesitation in the decision-making process. They have well seen that in this decision-making process and that there are conflicts between positions and the opening of this decision-making process to the public. The Agency's professional services must prepare a number of decisions. The board of directors has representatives of all resolution ministries and services, which have an interest in curbing smuggling. The government is not alone here, you have one number of industry representatives, who will watch what decisions are made here, whether they are founded. We can rely on them, too, that they will seek and their interest is that these decisions are well-founded. And not only that, for important decisions it should be shared with colleagues in the government, which means the ministers themselves who have to share that with their colleagues in the government. It is quite likely that these governments will be coalitions; even in this board of directors, there is a huge likelihood that it will be coalitional, so there will be additional reasons why everyone will see whether these are rightful decisions. Finally, we have an obligation to perform this home at least twice a year (we will come to that amendment that we have accepted). Thus, more and more important decisions will also need to be well-founded in order to withstand this test by the public. Because it is certain that the issue of tobacco in the years to come will continue to interest both the media and our public; in this way we open the door to these decisions very wide, so that anyone interested can see how it has decided on all of this. At last, why wasn't this in the budget? It seems to me that it would be a demeaning of this home, and it would be a prejudge of your decision to find a budget in the 2003 budget, however small, for this agency, without you deciding to vote for this law. This would be prejudged by the will of this home and, of course, in the budget rebalancing due to the Constitutional Charter, there will also be an appropriate budget for this institution, which will be small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25730	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not long ago we had a debate about the Chamber of Commerce Act. We voted against that law because you re-introduced state chambers. I'm reading these jobs you trust with the tobacco agency and I see that these are the jobs that the Chamber of Commerce performs for all other activities in Serbia, just not for manufacturers and traffickers dealing with tobacco. There's a question of why. If I can get huge industries to believe that they're going to be registered at the Chamber of Commerce, how come only tobacco companies are set up by a tobacco agency, which I think is very debatable if you can trust her with these jobs. I would understand that this job is entrusted to an authority of the administration, but one company, which has a legal personality, although you say it will work in accordance with the Public Service Act -- it's a very tense interpretation. If you already trust these jobs to someone who's not an authority of the administration, why didn't you call a tender or bid, so let's see who's gonna do the job? This is the formation of a state in the country, very interesting, very debateable, and in practice it's going to show a lot of things. See, for example, point 4: "Coordination of the activities of organs and organisations in the area of combating illegal traffic of tobacco products". So the police department will come to coordinate their activities with the tobacco agency. I can't believe the police minister is gonna let the police come and the tobacco agency is giving her guidance on how to detect illegal flows and what to do with it. This article is more illiterate than Article 4, so I ask that someone written by the MPs read it and arrange it so that the Government can say - this is what we wrote. I found a new verb in article 5, and if you were playing that game with letters and making a word, you wouldn't be admitted to doing it. That word, and it's repeated several times, isn't a random mistake, that word doesn't exist. If you tell me what it means - the work, I might as well take it. Once again there are errors in the declines and again you try to show us that you are illiterate and even in Article 9, we will talk about it and delete it, you say that a member of the Agency's Management Board will be the Director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration. There is no month, Minister, here you have defended the bill that we have abolished the Republic Public Revenue Administration. It really doesn't make sense. We're not so illiterate, we're not so forgetful, we're not so stupid, we don't know what's going to happen now. Which is a member to represent the former republican public revenue administration. Is he the one who ran away? Furthermore, the Director of Customs, why don't you write down the Federal Customs Administration, when you've already written - in accordance with federal regulations. Or you'll write, the director of Serbia's customs, and she's not here yet. You're just in a hurry like a colt before the ore. Some things you prejudge, some things you drag out of the past, even though they're gone. (President: Four minutes. ) The tobacco agency will be an ulcer, a parasite; don't convince me that seven ministers have to run a tobacco agency so they don't steal, and let's just say a massive police apparatus can lead a minister. There's no sharing of responsibility in the government. If one minister steals, one knows who steals and answers the entire government and the Prime Minister. We don't need seven of them sitting around, at least six of them won't even know what this is about. You've been caught by a mania agency. I think it was admitted once by the Prime Minister that this system came to him from Norway somewhere. If they give you some money for some humanitarian aid, it doesn't have to be a condition for you to accept their organisation of the state. You germinate on this plant of ours at once for the night, on our people, on our citizens' calemite western system... (President: five minutes. That's been developed for 200 years. Have patience. You won't fall into the fall like leaves from a tree, so you can't go back. Develop this slowly, systemically, and not with a blow to the head, many of which will remain unconscious.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25732	We move to the next amendment to Article 5, which was submitted jointly by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Here, the word is Joca Arsic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Will you use both times?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25733	I won't. A lot has been said in this article 5. On the side of all this, which is an argument as to whether or not the need for the Agency to exist, and what has been proposed here are several amendments. The SPS parliamentary group, i.e. part of the SPS MPs, believes that here in Article 5(4), instead of "the coordination of activities" it should read, "is providing the necessary data to the authorities and organisations". This is because the agency again wants to use powers beyond its capabilities and again assumes the role of coordination that can belong to the Government, it can belong to a body that is above the Agency, not to the Agency, because, as explained in the explanation here for the refusal of this amendment, "under the coordination of the activities of the authorities and organisations in the area of combating illegal traffic of tobacco products means the overall relationship and versatile co-operation of the tobacco agency and the competent authorities and organisations, as well as the taking of a number of other actions, and not just the provision of necessary data". It is normal that, based on the provision of the necessary data on the problem, on what needs and how to prevent and how, every resolution ministry from its work is required to carry out these tasks. They need notifications, they don't need some authority called the agency to coordinate jobs in the ministries, the government; it's done by the vice-presidents of the government and the Prime Minister. He co-ordinates ministry work and is the first minister in the government. There are similar powers given to the agency here. For this reason, we believe that the Agency should provide information to the competent authorities. He has this board of directors, as we just said, which is made up of several resolution ministers. I do not see now some need of a specific type of coordination, i.e. giving her jurisdiction to coordinate these tasks and tasks. Therefore, since we have pragmatically proposed only part of the amendments to this entire article, we believe that you will pass and adopt the law to establish the agency. We tried to fix this with this proposal, and it's up to you to accept it. We suggest you accept, because this solution will be more quality and celery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25734	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 6 to which the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Here's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25735	It's already been said a lot about the agency, about the reasons that it doesn't exist in this bill. That's what SRS MP Aleksandar Vukic was talking about. I would like to repeat one part that the agency is engaged in coordination of activities, and I spoke yesterday in the principle debate, the authorities and organisations in the area of the control of illegal traffic of tobacco products. Gentlemen, that is the definition of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Police. There is no need for there to be some parallel or paraorgans that will empower these ministries to take over on themselves. After all, there are enough people in the Ministry of Finance who deal with the control of illegal traffic of all types of products, including those that are particularly interesting from the point of view of obtaining budget revenues for the state. There are a lot of employees and departments at the Department of Commerce, and if there are not enough, more inspectors will be hired. There are a lot of people in the police department who deal with these affairs, not only in blood and others, but also in these illicit activities. I don't see any reason why the department always replaces the agencies. This increases the number of people who are paid out of the budget and whose jobs are to be done by someone else. There seems to be some other reason. The ministry is slowly pulling out jobs and assigning people who can control the DS exclusively, so this is a way for the DS to take control of all Serbian ministries through those agencies that will carry out the tasks originally needed by certain ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25736	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 7, reads: "The funds for the establishment and operation of the agency are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia". The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear and rigorous about the proposed law. He says -- the bill must contain a provision on whether financial resources are needed to implement the law and a provision on the amount of financial resources needed to implement the law. In light of this bill, the government wrote: to implement this law, it is necessary to provide specific financial resources in the name of the founding role - and then one madness, Mr. Minister - as well as a part of the resources to work in 2002. I can't believe it. Read what your officials suggest to the National Assembly. I'm going to suspect that the agency already exists and that in 2002 it made the expenses that you now have to cover, because I can't believe that you, if you'd read it, would have let you need funds for an agency that we're about to start, or not, for the expenses that you've done in 2002. Of course, they can't be provided from the current budget reserve. You know what the current budget reserve is used for. It can't be for new laws and for new commitments from the budget, because what you're using from the current budget reserve to the budget reserve you have to pay back, and when you give it back to the agency, no one will pay you back. That budget reserve's coming in, I assume, with you. I don't know how you do it. He goes in where he gets stuck at that hour, and the funds come back, and then some other user settles. You're setting up an agency, and you haven't told us how much it's going to cost here, and since you're dealing with state revenues, I know that the most important thing for you is when they come from the DOS coalition, which is the government, and when they give you a proposal, I'm convinced, Mr. Djelic, that you're asking them how much it's going to cost. It seems to me that I've been able to record your profile so much and I know you're asking them how much it's going to cost and see where the money comes from, and now 250 responsible people here, you're convincing the MPs that we never need to ask you how much it's going to cost. I am now asking you, Mr. Minister, Article 7 is talking about the funds that the agency will take from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Minister, this pleasure for seven ministers, for the board of directors, for the board of directors, this pleasure to pass the Chamber of Commerce, someone assesses whether anyone can do a certain job, how much their pleasure will cost us, which we are not at all, and who we would prefer to pave the way for, that children get regular child benefits. It's not in our interest to fund this agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25738	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25739	I can't tell you how much that's gonna cost, and I'm not going to say that number. I can say here that this number is going to be very modest, a few million, I don't know exactly how much it's going to be. We'll know that in a week, and that week isn't that far. It will be early in March, because the budget rebalance for this year is there, of course in 2002, and we all know that this bill was sent to the National Assembly last year and that's why it happened. I'd like to link this funding issue to the issue of transparency and resilience to corruption, which was the story just now. You'll notice that this agency has no original income, that these fees we're talking about are not defined as the original income of this agency. There is a reason why, because to define this as a source income there would be a tendency, relatively natural when you form any new service, that what is the original income as much as possible; there should be clear that there should be no such incentives in the work of this agency, they should not be the goal of collecting as much compensation as possible. We see here that we have separated the interest of this agency in a financial sense and that what they need is to be secured from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and only from the budget, not from some original revenue, because it could also be one incentive to give more permits, to give more licenses, more approvals, and somehow this is starting to think as if it's a company, and it's not. Of course, as far as these ministers are concerned, it is also clear in the law, because unfortunately we do not yet have the law to prevent conflicts of interest, that ministers do not receive any compensation for their work here. So that won't be any expense.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25740	The word is made by the president of the parliamentary group of the SS, MP Dragan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25741	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'm advertising Article 82. There are 75 people in the O.R. right now and 148 people in the O.R. It is a disrespect for the jobs of certain MPs. Minister Djelic honored all the MPs, respected citizens, or those who are on permanent duty, at 1,000 dinars per month for January because they worked hard. You can see they're not in the O.R. It's 21,000 dinars, 8,000 dinars, and that's 29,000. Those in office, and 90% of DOS deputies are also presidents of municipalities, come in official cars, write as if they were coming in with their own car. In particular, from Kragujevac is a daily of 2,500 dinars, from Nis 3,000 dinars; and if there are 20 working days, some MPs earn 80,000 dinars, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia. Fifty percent of Serbian citizens have nothing to eat. Zoran Djindjic says everyone should work in Serbia to get Serbia started. Give me that example right here. You have no right to abuse jobs. Now 50% of the MPs are either gone or down at the restaurant, eating cheap cookies and drinking cheap whiskey. Please establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25742	The MP called for article 82. (I guess, since he didn't state, that's attitude 6.) and expressed doubts about the existence of a quorum, which has been established by the application of the electronic system. It is under the obligation of the Chair to submit to the MP, who makes such a request, a computer copy of the MPs present, and I ask you to establish a quorum. (Dear Markovic: How long do we have to wait? ) Waiting is due to the patient waiting for all MPs present in the hall, respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to identify their presence. We owe everyone tolerance, no matter what we think of the actions of individual MPs. I repeat that it is the presence of MPs in the hall who refuse to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not MPs who are not present. Those who enter the O.R. will be identified by electronic card. I ask the MPs not to play with the cards. The electronic system has determined that we have a quorum to continue our work. As for the abuse of democratic instruments, which humiliates the institution, we will propose to the National Assembly that the Administrative Committee adopt specific measures for all those who think that abuse of democratic instruments can prevent the work of this assembly. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Is he in the O.R.? Yeah. Does he want a word? The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25743	Mrs. Comic, you don't see a 120-pound man. I sit in the O.R. all the time. Mr. Djelic really encouraged the nation a few minutes ago. So the establishment of this agency is going to cost this poor people a three-and-a-half million dollars. That's encouraging. However, I will suggest that Article 8 be deleted, and therefore all of these members who define the establishment and functioning of the agency to be deleted, i.e. I propose that the establishment of the agency be thrown out of the law, because we absolutely do not need that agency. First, what the government has suggested is not tobacco law. This is definitely a law on the establishment and operation of a tobacco agency. We see absolutely no state strategy, no state policy related to this extremely important branch of predominantly primary agricultural production, and we see no strategy for the production of cigarettes, we don't even see any strategy about the affirmation of exports. All smart countries and how they work seriously to ensure that this branch, above all, increases primary agricultural production and affirmation of exports, as well as that the world market, in particular Europe, is hungry. So that's not what this law is about. In this bill, the government proposed that we adopt a law establishing a tobacco agency. That agency, it's clear from this bill, would completely monopolise the excessive distribution of cigarettes. I will officially, in the form of a parliamentary issue, ask the Ministry of Finance - how much did this government set up for these two years on a variety of basis and how much of the budget for 2001 and 2002 cost the establishment of these agencies? Gentlemen of the DOS, I remember the sei period of your opposition action, when you severely attacked the then government that the state administration was bulky, expensive, etc. And live on the back of this people. Maybe you were right, you were probably right. What happened? You have come to power, you have inherited the exact same numerous administrations and in these two years not only have you not done some rationalization in that administration, but, looking at the republican level, and especially at the municipal, duplicated number of perpetrators, Mr. Djelic. So you've put a lot more pressure on the people. That wasn't enough. Then by whose model, I hear Mr. Nikolic tells the Norwegian model, you start setting up agencies for all parts of social and economic life. Practically, you've done two parallel administrations. We have ministries and we have agencies to do some professional work for these ministries. If this is a Norwegian solution, maybe Norway is an extremely rich country so it can pay both the ministries and agencies that do jobs for the ministries; for our situation, economically and socially, it's perfectly clear -- or we can abolish the ministries or we can abolish the agencies. Second of all, you encouraged us yesterday, you said that we got some major fluids by adopting this law. The first liquid is that the composition of the Agency's Management Board will make up...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25744	Four minutes, MP. You're done, MP, because it's time to discuss the amendments for three minutes. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you are, the word has the People's MP, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25745	Since Mr. Secretary was not present at the afternoon session, I will take this opportunity to ask one question. Mr. Minister, in all countries in Europe, and you've been staying in Europe a lot, the state is funding or giving a 80% tobacco premium, and cigarette manufacturers pay 20% because their tobacco is cheaper than ours, and ours is not competitive. If this country is not interested in increased tobacco production, and it is obvious that it is not, the reason is clear - the revenue from tobacco goes to some other people and not to the vaults of this state, or to the government of the Republic of Serbia. That money is taken by frogs, sparrows, pecones, Masons, and you make them dominate the agricultural producers, to give that money back into production. Is that right? He's speaking to the minister. ) Yeah, you think it's funny. [[Laughter]] You must have felt the taste of that cake, too. For one more thing, I suggested that article 9 be deleted. Mr. Minister, in addition to the fact that some ministries and their ministers are gone, there are simply no more ministries, or these directors are gone, all the people or ministers or directors who have been deeply involved in cigarette smuggling on the board of directors. The director of the federal customs administration; so who's to blame if cigarettes are smuggled in this country -- director of customs administration, minister of police, they're all the people involved in this smuggling. And you, Mr. Finance Minister, instead of chasing these smugglers and thieves, the mobsters, you put yourself on this board of directors and allegedly say -- there will be four other tobacco producers. And what can those four representatives of tobacco and cigarette manufacturers do compared to you seven from the state administration? They'll always be outvoted. They won't be able to decide anything at all. They will always serve as a decor to you who make those decisions - where and who will take money from tobacco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25746	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dusan Cvetkovic, Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25747	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we have tabled an amendment to Article 9 in which we wish to make certain, for us absolutely logical, corrections. Although we have had a number of objections to the agency, etc., knowing that it remains, we think it is still the most normal thing for the Agency's board of directors to have practically 13 members instead of 11 members, and to enter the Agency's board of directors, in addition to the Ministers of Agriculture, Trade, Health, Finance and Economy, Internal Affairs, Directors of the Republic of Public Revenue and Director of Customs Administration, and Minister of Ecology. Several times in this morning's show, the finance minister spoke yesterday, and that's exactly what the Minister of Agriculture was talking about. a ban on smoking cigarettes in rooms, a ban that allows non-smokers to not be poisoned, but that law does not apply. I think the presence of such a minister in the agency, a man like this, who primarily takes care of environmental issues, can only benefit. In addition, when it comes to the expansion of the board of directors, it is logical - on the basis of all this which represents the whole complex of this production, which is the production of tobacco, processing or fermentation of tobacco, the production of cigarettes, tobacco trade and tobacco products, as well as imports of tobacco and tobacco products - that all five representatives of those basic factors of this production be part of the board of directors. If only four board members remain, we will be in a position to fall out of the board of directors or not to be on the board of directors, and that will most likely happen, tobacco producers, or not to be any of the tobacco processors. It's a formal matter and it's not inconclusive, it's no difficulty, nor will it be a major financial expenditure to extend the board to two members, and thus the Minister of Ecology, as a man of great importance when it comes to tobacco tobacco and tobacco damage, would be part of the board of directors, would direct the procedure for the release of cigarettes and all other products, and would cover the entire chain, from tobacco production to imports and exports, with one representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25748	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25749	Micovic, read Kostu Racino, will make it clear to you about tobacco. A little joke. Yeah, and a little comic. However, it is a comical situation that those who seek and vote for work to be extended, and it was 77 for them, and the other ones who did not vote to attend this work, and one good part of them is not in the hall today, and that is exactly what is both comical and funny. Now on the amendments, and I apologize to you, Madam Chairman, I think that the explanation of colleagues of Lesnjak - Dusan Cvetkovic is quite convincing, and that the government's argument that this amendment does not accept is not until the end convincing. We don't see why you can't find a Minister of Ecology on this board. The only committee in this congregation that doesn't smoke is this committee and it seems to me to be the Health Committee, but until the session begins. It is also fully justified for this ministry to be represented, normally, by its minister and I think it is entirely justified that all participants in the production and transport of tobacco find places on this board of directors. As given in the explanation - that through association and associations of manufacturers, traffickers and tobacco processors, representatives will be delegated to the board of directors, I do not think it is convincing enough. It is much fairer and fairer that each of these has its own representative on the board of directors. With the board and agencies already in place, it will surely work effectively and improve the work of this agency, and it has been said that they will not receive compensation, at least these ministers will have no compensation for their work. Whether that compensation will be in another form, as some here have mentioned, I don't want to get into it. It's a matter for other organs and for those who need to take care of it. I don't think this argument is enough for the amendment to be rejected, and I ask the Assembly to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25750	We move on to Article 10, on which the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. A bill on tobacco, in which I ask that article 10 be deleted and in which I question the purpose of the tobacco agency. Is the Serbian Republic's budget so elastic that there is room for waste and spending budgets on agencies? The production of tobacco for each country is one of the largest sources of revenue. I'm surprised that after two years of chaos and crime, you decided to try to bring order into this area. Why hasn't something been done before? Why does a tobacco store usually associate with crime, mob, murder, counts? Books are also printed on it, and the most famous book by Dr Vojislav Seselj is "Stanko Subotić-Cana Žabac, king of the tobacco mafia", which explains everything. What will be the role of the tobacco agency, will a new one come up next to the standard monopolies, who will decide everything through the tobacco agency? The formation of a tobacco agency will mean new privileges for a narrow circle of people close to the regime and the creation of new clans. Why not liberalize tobacco production? What's the government afraid of? Why should tobacco not be produced by everyone who wants to, and only the best on the market will survive, with the best quality products. It is a very indicative phenomenon of "fast" cigarettes, with significant support for media advertising. Who is this Peconi, where does he get his privileges, who protects him, why do you strengthen the state apparatus and bureaucracy through the tobacco bill? A quality proposal for a tobacco law should be adopted, the elemental role of which would be to abolish privileges, abolish monopolies and suppress smuggling. Article 10 speaks of a supervisory board, which has a president and six members. Two members are named from the agency's staff, but one clause should be inserted there -- but must be close to Peconia. The Supervisory Board shall adopt a Rules of Procedure, on the results of the surveillance carried out; the Supervisory Board of the Agency shall inform the Government three months, and the Government shall be obliged to notify Stanko Subotica-Caneta Zapca whenever the need arises or when this is requested by the Government. What kind of DOS government would be if it wasn't connected to the mob?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25752	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 11 on which the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25753	Dear Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 and asked for that member to be deleted from this law. And this member, as well as the law itself, which is to be implemented by the agency, which has already been spoken of, has one single purpose -- that the huge capital, which the mafia has acquired by smuggling tobacco several years back, puts into legal flows, i.e. that the money that is acquired by criminal activities legalises and puts in an unfavourable position all those economic entities that have been present in the tobacco trade so far. Mr. Minister already said in his statements that the license number would be low. In order to obtain one licence, the manufacturer needs huge material resources. In order to obtain a wholesale license, it also requires large material resources to buy that license and a proper storage space. It seems to me that this is not the only goal for this government and the mafia, but to remove even retail facilities, which must meet the technical conditions, which again this law and the agency prescribe and for which certain high funds are also needed, and thus put a complete trade in tobacco into the hands of former mobsters. Mr. Minister, under the bill of this law, in Article 11, which I have asked to delete, there are often much greater powers than in many other laws so far. According to this member of the law, the director of the tobacco trading agency proposes a personal minister, although the agency also has a board of directors and a supervisory board. It's being set up by the government. Now the question is -- what kind of director would that be, and who would that director be? Here you have more mobsters in close contact with the current government. Stanko Subotic, also known as Cana Zabbac (already said books were written about him), could then be Nebojsa Covic, the current deputy prime minister of the government, who was also the president of the Serbian Radical Party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, wrote a book titled "Nebojsa Covic, the poodle of the Serbian mafia", which makes the book appear to be a war crime and therefore has to go to The Hague. Perhaps your good director would be Philip Cepter, or the real name Milan Jankovic, or perhaps even Zoran Djindjic would like to be the director of this agency, and I can tell you for sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25754	People's MP, perhaps we should take your word for it, since I don't see you registered on the National Assembly's electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25755	I'm registered, check it out. Please don't interrupt me. I guarantee you that the invitation to be director of the tobacco agency would be most appreciated by Milo Djukanovic, even giving up the statehood of Montenegro. It's so important for such an agency and it's got so much money in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25756	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 11 on which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirović, Zivodarka Dacin, Rade Bajic and Milos Nesovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. I ask the service to deliver an electronic copy to me at the moment when we were conducting a dialogue with the MP and I. The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25757	Dear People's MPs, a group of SPS MPs tabled an amendment to Article 11, by erasing the 1st position, and he says the government appoints and resolves the director of the tobacco agency on a proposal from the finance minister. We asked to change that position and to submit a proposal to the agriculture minister instead of the finance minister. On the side that we're against this number of agencies, with this many powers, but they're like a leech leaning on Serbia's budget, we're going to talk about them a little bit more at the fourth point, and here to say why we're proposing this. First of all, we believe that agencies are established exclusively for the performance of professional activities, such as organisation and public tendering, for obtaining a license to manufacture tobacco products and for determining the conditions for meeting in a public tender, as well as granting licences for trading to wholesalers. Therefore, if these are professional jobs and relate exclusively to tobacco production and transport, then I see no reason why the finance minister would make a proposal for the director of the agency, it's logical, and I think this is both a technical and logical conclusion and an amendment, that the Director proposes a minister of agriculture. I don't see why the finance minister didn't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25758	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? He has the word from the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group Joca Arsic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25759	counterpart Bajic said the reasons why we suggest that the agency's director should propose a agriculture minister, possibly from the SPS ranks, but when we are in the government; that will hopefully be soon. There is a very transparent reason for the law to be passed here, and this is to give greater authority and importance to the Ministry of Finance than to the Ministry of Agriculture, which by nature should also be subject to jurisdiction, because it is tobacco, agricultural product, tobacco industry, which is also "packed" in the organisational part of agriculture, food industry and the processing of agricultural products. It is therefore logical that this proposal should be carried out by the minister responsible for the affairs of agriculture, forestry and water industry, as it was recently called. Now it's been taken from him, then returned to forestry. I think it's a more correct solution than the proposed solution and I'm asking the Assembly to make it clear. I'm also asking the chairman, according to Article 82 of Section 4, 5 or 6, when he finds that there is no quorum in the room, and there is no quorum again, to check the electronic system so that we don't have to re-call and determine the quorum. Here, there's no quorum in the O.R. again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25760	You have the right to submit a proposal as an authorised representative, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 12, which reads: "The Agency submits at least once a year to the government a report on its work and a report on the state of tobacco products on the market in the Republic. The government reports at least once a year the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the Agency's work." That member should be deleted for a number of reasons. You've already heard that my esteemed fellow doctors have already talked about tobacco damage. First of all, tobacco has over 42 ingredients that have carcinogenic effects, and bronch cancer is the most common disease, which is of all malignancies the most represented. It wouldn't worry us so much if Serbia wasn't second in Europe after nicotine consumption and that more than 18,000 tonnes of cigarettes were not consumed in Serbia in a year. If all of this were to go legal, the state would certainly have a huge profit of a billion euros. Unfortunately, the government is trying to secure a state monopoly on tobacco trade and thus someone from the government participates in the distribution of extraprofits. In the end, according to Djindjic's proposal, the Assembly should vote on this law, under which all companies, other than Bat, of course, would be difficult or prohibited from exporting cigarettes to Serbia in the next two years. BAT's cigarettes were manufactured in Western Europe and they would be treated as a domestic Serbian product, exempt from paying any customs or tax. During the two-year monopoly of BAT and Sudotic, they would make profits of around 150 million German marks. It's quite enough to build a new factory on Serbia's territory. The entire plant-building operation, or money laundering, would amount to around 150m euros. In this way, the company, owned by Subotic, which is called "D Trade", whose headquarters is in Cyprus, would literally take a position in Serbia. Such an operation would throw out not only the remaining foreign producers, but also the production of tobacco factories in Serbia, which is the tobacco industry in Vranje and Nis. It is precisely because of the political platform, which Mr. Zoran Djindjic, whom Subotic has so far and how he has charged, that this law should be passed and all the authorities given to the government and ministers in the government through the agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25762	Does anyone else want a word from the authorized participants in the debate? There is a word from MP Joca Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25763	Since the chairman has taught me that I have to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure, I fully accept that remark and want to correct my mistake, so I urge that, in accordance with Article 82. The Rules of Procedure, the final position, determines the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-06-0.u25764	At the request of the MP, I ask you to establish a quorum. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the moment we have an end to the debate in detail on amendments to Article 12, I find that we do not have the quorum needed to work on the electronic system. I would like to inform you that you will be notified in good time by the Service of the Assembly, reminding all of our obligations arising from the deadlines pending the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter. Thank you.
