ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30695	I propose that at the beginning of this session we pay our respects to the tragically killed by the criminals of Albanian terrorists, the Stolic family in Obilic. I think this is the moment that we are one way of pretending against the unprecedented crime that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30696	I ask the People's MPs to pay our respects to the innocent family of Stolic in Obilić for a minute of silence. A minute of silence. Let's make it easy for them. The word comes from MP Milutin Svedovic, followed by MP Djuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30697	Ladies and gentlemen of the people's chosen ones, in a country whose education was founded by the Holy Sava and which had giants such as Dositej Obradović, Vuk Karadzic, Jovan Sterija Popović, Jovan Skerlic, the brothers Bogdan and Pavle Popović, Slobodan Jovanovic and others, reforming the school system is a serious and demanding job that requires a lot of responsibility and attention, and above all love for children. The school is not the property of this party or that party, no matter what its name is, the school is the future of all who live in Serbia and the stock of their happiness and progress. This model, which, I must say, looks like taking over some long-term non-functional organs, like in Dr. Frankenstein's case, so a little bit of a place from here and from there, which they expect to get the power out of them, to bring them back to life, is simply not done until the end. As we discuss the law of primary education and education, there has been only a third reform of education in Japan for the last 100 years. When the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, together with the Stability Pact of Yugoslavia, did their thematic presentation of national education policies, they told the Ministry of Education of Serbia: establishing a partnership between school, school councils and the social community at local level, which function by releasing the concept of democratically-formed institutions fostering democratic education and the atmosphere, it requires the dog's attention in planning reforms. If reforms at this level are not all-out and with a lot of enthusiasm accepted among directors, teachers and parents, and if the reform process does not allow teachers to be active reform creators, international experience shows that the reform process will have a weak effect on the work of schools and the results of education. Every day teachers, who are trained in psych classes, complain about a new school, how they are treated as people from institutions for people who have been affected by social health. Every day, parents, despite the stories of Mr. Minister of Education, that the first day of elementary school will be a game, a joke, a song, and that children will only learn in school and that parents will not pay for private lessons, they ask us - what they want to do with school. They don't need a school of games but the right place to gain knowledge, freed from excess content, but which still represents knowledge. The OSCE and the OECD recommended that a three-year trial reform model be applied in voluntary schools based on a strategic and operationally decomposed plan. However, in the Educational Review of March 20th, Mr. Minister said that the prospectus is a live experiment and that it happens in real time. It is not difficult to change the director of a public enterprise or business policy, but changing people's heads is something else. Instead of explaining how in school games children will become more educated than they are now. Mr. Minister, you have published in the Sunday Telegraph a second state of emergency in which all schools, teachers, parents, claim that the schools so far are to blame for the conditions in society, saying, "Look at the prisons today, they're ex-wives." That's what you said about Sunday's telegraph from May 14, 2003. They're not those educators who taught these people who are in prisons, they didn't teach them to steal, to kill, to deal drugs, and to meet mob bosses in a street named after a great German poet and a friend of Gete, and it's in Zemun. Against the introduction of laws without prior public debates are all, above all, professional associations, but also trade unions and the Serbian Orthodox Church. Even the Žička eparchy, in which my city belongs, was issued in 2002 by a benefactor, dedicated to school reform. At the last Archaeological assembly, it is required that a broad public debate be held on state school reform. After World War II, our school has endured a number of significant reforms. From 1945 to 1958, there was an idea of rerouting, and since 1970, after the resolution of the Federal Assembly on the development of education on a socialist self-government basis, it started to so-called. Directed education, which was finally introduced in 1974. The objectives of the reform were always state-run, declared social, related to ideological, not true needs and interests. Their carriers were political and party authorities, not experts. The reform was run by the ideologists of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, and we only remember Stipe Shuvar. This is the fourth reform of our education in the last 20 years, and it's happening again, that one group of ideologically related souls has decided to change education a little bit, without any insight into the fact that it must not be done overnight and that no one has the right to play with the future of peoples and children, especially if there is no general social consensus. Before going into school reform, we should have a clear vision of what kind of society we want to build and what kind of economy we need. Of course we're sick of clerks and non-productive professions. Of course we miss craftsmen and educated farmers, but whether we're going to be a craftsman's agricultural society or we're going to be carriers, the leading power of computerism in the Balkans. What we're going to do, among other things, with the fact that after the Japanese, we're the oldest nation in the world, and soon there won't be any children going to school, if this continues. The Serbs, according to the latest list, despite a huge inflow of refugees, have even 173,500 less than in the 1991 census. In view of the fact that this is how our school was nevertheless a relatively preserved institution in Serbia's apocalyptic nightmare in the 1990s. The economy, culture, legal order has collapsed, but the school has survived in spite of all its teacher-professor when it is still capable of bringing out more serious reform procedures, without the reforms being cut down. Although advocates of the new school claim that the school so far was only a memory store, the whole West took half a million of our young experts and in the unprecedented brain drain so far, they would not be worth the West if they were just dumb memories, but were well-educated and very gifted. Most of them are now leading experts in their fields and precisely in developed Western countries and precisely with the knowledge they brought from school and from the university in Serbia. I would only say that in this debate, which has not been conducted, many have offered to participate in it and to help make such a law. You, Mr. Minister, have been given insight into the contents of a statement by the Serbian language department and the literature of all universities in Serbia. They informed the public at their meeting on 10 March 2003 that the departments for Serbian language and literature of the universities in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kosovo Mitrovica and Kragujevac were not involved in the work on changes in teaching plans and programmes for the subject of Serbian language, literature and communication, but that they were performed by the arbitrationally elected professors and psychologists. It has been indicated that the plans, which the ministry teams are preparing, contain a lot of gaps, overlining the language's communication aspects with the inadmissible suppression of literature. Serbians are for reforms, but not for what they are forced to do, but they are ignoring the most professional institutions to study Serbian language and literature in this country. Mathematicians appeared in Nis on the round table on February 14, 2002, whether 9+3 is equal to 8+4, where they suggest that maybe even a nine-rate school be introduced, which is not at all controversial, but that at least a high school lasts four years, so it's 9+4. I'd just add that teachers train for school classes in workshops and playrooms and give them books to learn from. One of those books, "The Game to Knowledge", published in 1995, written by the present assistant minister. It is said that this book serves to free children from fears that they can have in front of teachers, parents, and animals. The workshop is called "Teacher with a bow in the hair playing guitar." In another workshop, children act as welding organs can also get the role of anus, and even a by-product of welding, which is called "pretty". I don't think it's gonna be any easier for kids in these workshops and in the playrooms. They are said not to be evaluated, but evaluation and evaluation is very important, especially when it is known that from the people who have proposed all of this and who are doing this, teams consisted mainly of psychologists and educators and that this reform has already been named "Pepsi Reform". I ask you all as an MP of not one party, but as a man, as a citizen, as a parent, who like you wants good not only for his child, but also for all the children of Serbia, to withdraw this law, to remember your children and your loved ones, but also to remember your teachers who have remained in good memory for everything they have taught you from the first basic to the university and not to experiment, and on their behalf, on the tens of thousands of our students and on our future.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30698	MP Djuro Popovic is not present. The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30699	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the minister showed here a collection of books issued by the ministry, with the goal of introducing the Serbian public to the upcoming reforms and I came to one of the books, which the minister did not present here yesterday. It is a book with an ambitious titled "Medium Education Reform from Talks to Realisation". I looked at this carefully and realized there was nothing to reform here. Here are only the data that the ministry has on the state of play in our secondary vocational education and at the end of this book, which is probably charged solidly, are several pages on the objectives of reforming secondary vocational education. There are democratisation, decentralisation, demonopolization, diversification, etc. I have tried to find something new, in relation to the situation so far and here under a) in democratisation it is said that the aim of reforming the democratisation of the availability of education is that education was allegedly not available to everyone under equal conditions, which I do not agree with. Then, democratisation of student-teacher relations. I don't know if this relationship has ever been more democratic than it is now, and I don't know what more children should be allowed in class to achieve these goals. Then, democratisation of programme realization, democratisation of teacher-parent relations, and I don't know what that means, democratisation of school relations and environments etc. So, there's nothing literally new here, there's a copy of what the ministry has to do with, data on official duty, an existing one, someone took the money for it, and that's it. As far as the law itself is concerned, I will try briefly, given that time is limited, to point out some things that I personally disagree with, as well as the Serbian Radical Party that I belong to. In Article 3, where the title "Employments of Education and Education" at point 5 states that one of the goals is to develop awareness of statehood and cultivate tradition and culture. I agree with this, but there is a lack of nationality. I think there should be a development of awareness of national and national belongings. I wasn't informed it was accepted. Next, Article 53. "Organs of the Management of the Institute". It says here that the authorities of the facility, I mean schools, it's the school board, and so far it's been. So, it's nothing new, and by the law of high school last year, it was so, which means that the school board was established on a new principle, i.e. The new way is to elect board members, equal representation and collectives and parents and the social community, i.e. It's the middle of the school. I personally mind what is said to be said by "the body of the institution makes up three prominent representatives of the employees of parents and units of local self-government". I don't know what "the distinguished representative" means. These representatives are elected or taughtly larger, if they are employed, there are no prominent ones there, it is done by secret or public vote, however. Who are the prominent parents? Who determines prominent parents? Parents choose it themselves, and prominent members of local self-government -- it is already a political matter, and we probably agree that it is a policy, i.e. authorities at the level of local self-government. When it comes to these representatives of local self-government, I would ask you, since we have had one bad experience in the last year, that most of these are chosen by people who are politically alike, means representatives of those parties that are the owners of the local government, that I claim from my personal experience that they are people, or that people who don't even have high school are elected. The law, Minister, should have prescribed that at least one of them has a high level of professional training or higher professional training, because they decide on the fate of people who are highly educated. The next thing, the director of the institution, or one position in this Article 59, where the director’s license is said to be at rest during the term of office of director or director. Personally, I think that the license, no matter how much we disagree with the introduction of the licence, is a time category, that it has to be time-limited, as it is, and that it cannot rest on the director for those four years, as far as he manages, or for two mandates, and then enjoys those five years as if he has a license. The license has to be time-defined, more complete, so it can't rest. It is still limited to time, and a man eventually loses knowledge or needs to restore it, as is the case here. Then, with article 70, which is said to be - the school program brings school, in line with the general principles of the school program and the specific basics of the school program. The most important thing here is the adoption of sublegislative acts, meaning the rules on the curricula and the program, as it used to be, and now it's going to be a school programme, so I'm interested in it, given that all of this is indicative to me, until these rules are passed, what then. The most important thing is, and the essence of the reform is, in fact, the content of the programme. If the programme's content doesn't change, then the reform has nothing to do with it. We're interested in what's going to happen to the content of the program. Will, I'm talking about high school, since I work in high school, programs in these schools will be cut short, simplified, reduced. It's illogical, for example, that a locksmith listens to three hours of history a week, listens to music, listens to art. I think there's a lot of unnecessary stuff here and there's got to be a whole lot of reform here. It means your programs are simplified. Now, what don't I agree with here? Article 72 states that the specific basics of the school programme of secondary education and education by types and educational profiles, content, etc. says - the mandatory and recommended content of the subjects, topics and modules. What are modules? Will she be able to bring programs to modular teaching? In Article 73, it is said that schools will be required to have 30% for secondary vocational education, for trade profiles, while for these other 40% are bound to accept what the ministry says. Are schools able to fill out the other 67% of the program and will this member be abused by schools? We have small environments where schools couture with numbers of students. They have a desire to survive. Whether schools by prescribing programs, which will be reduced to other schools, which will be easier for students, whether schools will thus try to win students from other backgrounds and thus survive. I don't think this is a good solution and that the percentage should have been at least higher than that indicated here in this bill. When it comes to Article 101 and grading, it is very important here that you know that children are not currently motivated to learn and that this is a general trend in Serbia, that it is a very small number and percentage of children who have a motive to study schools. I have a personal experience. When the kids say in class, Professor, we have no reason to study at all. What are we learning about? In order to implement the reform of education, a reform of the economy was to be implemented first, the economy was to be launched. The kids are aware they don't have any future here and that no matter what they're done with, they don't have a job after that. We have a very difficult situation for children who come from elementary school with excellent success to enroll in trade, catering activities, crafts, not in technical professions, not in high school. We're losing our best quality children just because the economy is stagnating or the economy is falling, i.e. economic activities are getting smaller and smaller and are becoming more difficult and more difficult in Serbia. Also, it is very difficult under Article 102. that obligation to evaluate students four times during the mid-term. Gentlemen, do you know, I suppose you went to school, we have 40 students in the class. Who's going to evaluate that? Is some regulation or some sublegal act predicting a reduction in the number of students? Do you know that 30 is too much, if it's 30. I think 24 is some optimal number and should go towards that goal to reduce the number of students in the department so that the course can be more concrete and qualityd. I'm sorry, since there's no more time, when there's an amendment debate, then I'll explain things in more detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30700	The word has the People's MP Sreten Mitrovica, and then the MP Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30701	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, is one of the key segments of every society, including ours, which is why every change in education and education should be approached with great responsibility, especially the major reform changes proposed in this bill. This law, given the public, has been prepared in strict secrecy, in the strictest circle, with special services. The reform of education took place despite the fact that there is no minimum consensus of the widest part of the public for its implementation. It is incomprehensible that public and educational workers are not well informed and do not take part in the debate on the draft law that is under preparation. I believe that the reform process is completely ignored by the profession, and that the law is also proposed by those who have never directly participated in the follow-up. Here, today, the debate on this bill is conducted without TV transmission. It is clear - the promoter does not care to get to know the public and that he wants this law adopted as soon as possible. This law is so consistent that it is neither like the laws of developed countries, and at least it is a concept of new education, which corresponds to the demands of democratic society. We expected a higher degree of democracy by proposing this law. Educational experiments leave far-reaching consequences for many generations who are educated under some experimental law. We know the consequences of Shuvar's law, to which the proposer returns in a significant part of the bill. The draft law was also made according to the European Union's laws, not taking into account the minimum of national interests, because it does not have sufficiently highlighted and protected state interests in this area. Restrictiveness is discriminatory and is very far from the declared objectives of democratisation, decentralisation and professionalisation, because all powers are directed at a minister who completes a large number of members with some of his sublaws. There is too little time, and much more can be said, that this law should not be passed and should be rejected in the principle debate, because even the proposed amendments cannot be changed significantly. I'm going through some members, although we're going through the amendments that we've made, to point out some irregularities, or what I've explained. Article 2 immediately mentions the centralisation of the minister - the work of education and education: the way education, the work of education and education is prescribed by this law and specific laws in the field of education and education, in the text below, a special law or sublegal act which the minister will adopt. Article 10 is clear and aggressive among all debaters who do not support the bill, given that we have more advice. The introduction of advice that can form various commissions, expert teams and other working bodies introduces a huge administrative apparatus, so the funds will be further allocated from the budget, although education workers' salaries are at the lowest level. Or, according to the law, through donations that someone else will return later. The ministry's competencies have been tried to cloud Article 28, where some of the ministry's powers are allegedly given. In Article 69, we cannot define our children a special program without, apparently, preschool education. If we want a program, we need to get approval from international associations. Article 48 mentions the beginning and end of the school year. You can't tell when school breaks are. I'm sure the minister will bring it in some of his sublaws. Article 96. - the rights of a child and of a student. Point 8 provides freedom of association in different groups, clubs, organisation of student parliaments. Isn't politics introduced into primary and secondary education at a small door? What kind of groups they can form, we can't even think about. Article 132 is mostly explained by all. The inconclusive nature of this law is Article 132. - serious injuries to labour obligations. I don't want to talk about it, because we'll explain it in more detail through the amendment. Since I am an MP from the Kosovo and Metohija areas, except for what we can give praise to the ministry and the minister that education in Kosovo and Metohija has been detained and that it works in accordance with our ministry, nothing of the ministry has been further done. Schools in Kosovo and Metohija do not receive material costs. That's what I checked during my stay at the assembly break. No material costs are received, although they have now made demands to the ministry for their own needs and have been promised from the ministry to compensate them for material costs. Minister, if I'm not telling the truth, you say it's not true. Secondly, nothing has been done to improve the quality of teaching in Kosovo and Metohija, since we know that teaching, especially in the central area where I live, is taking place in schools in very tight areas, as many schools from cities have been moved to rural schools and are trying to teach more shifts. I ask the minister, and I wonder how this law will be implemented in Kosovo and Metohija, if adopted, I hope not. In the end, we got a list this morning - school reform, a new attempt at obsess... our children. I will read a paragraph, given that we had a Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which I attended. I don't know why this was delivered only to the SPS MPs, I don't know if the DOS representatives got this. "The view of school reforms in the world -- our students who went to the U.S. student exchange were always amazed by the level of ignorance of children there and the fact that in America, other than private schools, they were not used for learning, but for blinding through various workshops and playgrounds. We would have lived in error if we believed our children in America had achieved such great results because they were much smarter than American children. No, but our children taught a classic school in the United States, in the state education system, long since it was abolished."
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30702	The word is made by Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30703	Maybe it's a good thing I'm gonna be responding to my colleagues from the SRS at the same time as the SPS representative. As for craft schools, that's the problem, but we've divided craft schools, that's their program into certain percentages, so general basics, which represents the number of history classes that are necessary, it's only 30%. So, we left 70% of the program for a flexible program that adapts to the trade, and that 40% is a joint professional and 30% is a school program. I wanted to tell you that all this is going in in 2007. So, until then, schools will adapt to a new way of working, because only in 2007 do they meet with it, and the specific basics of the programme are brought in co-operation with the councils. This was not put into the hands of the ministry, although it is true that the sublegal acts of the minister by definition bring, but this on a proposal from the council, which means that the national council or some council is taking part in it. As for Kosovo, the truth works, in very difficult conditions, you know that we do not have access there and I am not a signator of anything that is related to Kosovo. I've found a condition, like all of you now. Educational workers still get two salaries from here in a month. 80% get the ones that came here. The transport's on us. So, absolutely everything pays for this country. Please don't argue with that. In addition, we have made a plan and all schools, since Kosovo is, and you know it since you are related to Kosovo, passed last year the Law on Primary and High Schools, which applies to Kosovo. In order for our children not to be denied, we will train teachers from Kosovo, Serbian ethnic origin and they enter in 2003, together with this generation, into a new school. It's our responsibility and it's a plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30704	The word has a folk MP Bojana Aleksic, followed by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30705	When we talk about this law, we're actually talking about school reform. That's what the real issue is. You can't just talk about this law, you can't talk about reform in general. That's why I want to say that we at the DSS are looking at education reform on three levels. The first level is, of course, this legislative one. The second is pedagogical or professional pedagogical or strategic. At the very least, it's best to call it the strategy of our education and education system for our children. The third would be a financial level. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is only a framework in relation to the whole reform. It is a form, and every form is less important to us than the essence and content. The law as a form, largely for us, in the Democratic Party of Serbia, could be acceptable, and what it is is a model that is offered, a model of nine-year schooling, a license of teaching and so on. That's what my colleague Lemajic was talking about. There is a lot of compliance with the proposal for a reform offered by the Democratic Party of Serbia to the public. Where are we different? We differ precisely in terms of content. Our proposal is for the Assembly to choose a national educational council, which deals with the education strategy, and which will deal with the essence, which will bring up plans and programmes, which will prescribe how our children will be brought up. That's what interests us most. Our children have been in the last 10 to 15 years, even more, and in the end, we haven't studied as we should have, and our children are unfortunately worse and worse. Our children in the last ten years have grown up in an environment that has been terrible. In war conditions, in conditions of misery and poverty, in conditions where they were more concerned by a freak formation called Pink Television than the school itself. Our children were offered all negative examples. Our children were in a position to watch some young boys, with shaved heads, thick gold chains around their necks, who drove very good and fast cars, have a lot of money. And so did their idols, and on the other hand, our children looked at their parents, educational workers, judges, doctors, lawyers who worked hard. And of course I'm not talking about workers. That's understood. So, some people who have worked hard, and with all their schools that have finished, and with all that investment in their work, have not been able to provide them with the most often new shoes, and the cheapest ones, let alone the kind of children they would like and what at least one or two students in their class are wearing. That's the basic problem with our children. Our children have learned a completely wrong system of values, with completely wrong idols, and that's something we all have to fix together. Of course, it's a basic task for us who are parents, but also for the school, because at least as much influence as parents have on children, the same impact has on schools and social environments or our environment. It is the National Educational Council that should prescribe such plans and programmes, and such a way of education and education, because education is even more important than education for our children. To bring our children back to that true system of values, to teach them to distinguish right and wrong, to teach them what it is to weigh, what it is that some real goals are in life, to teach them that money and shine and expensive shoes are not the most important thing in the world, that there are also some spiritual values that are much, much more important than they are alive. Everything else is just a passing thing. They need to be taught to be happy, to live and when they have little, and when they have enough, and to tend to be good and honest people who do their job with honor whatever it is, to do the work they do out of love. It's something we should prepare them for. What I'm talking about right now is certainly the most difficult task of all of us. And those of us sitting in the Assembly, and taking care of our children, both as parents and as MPs, and as ministers, and certainly the most difficult task we want to set as a national educational council. It needs to be entered into something that we could define as a plus brain. So, people, not only professional, but primarily people are extremely moral, invulnerable, extremely well-intentioned to our children, people who come from everything that represents our pride and discipline and our culture and traditions. What our children must certainly learn, it is our cultural and national tradition, and in what way our national and cultural tradition can, should and must fit into the European tradition, which is just as important, because our culture and tradition are part of European national and cultural traditions and civilization in general. That's what our primary task is. Is it possible, if we are setting up this National Educational Council, is it possible to prepare it all for the next year? And is it possible to make plans and programs that are much more important than the law? The law itself wouldn't be so controversial, would it be possible to come up with and do all that in three months of summer vacation? In our opinion, that's not possible. In our opinion, bodies must first form. These bodies that are scheduled to form must be consulted, they must carry out something that is widely public debate, and then resort to this fundamental and serious job, in order to start reform next school year 2004, in 2005. This year, we think it would be enough for the reform to start in a small number of schools, in larger centres in Serbia, in larger cities, schools that are ready to be strong, that would volunteer to be able to start reform, and that at the same time we could see what's good in reform, what's wrong, whether it's well imagined, whether it's not imagined, and we would have time to fix it by 2004, 2005. There's one more thing, that third level called finance. This law provides for the reform to be financed partly from the Republic of Serbia's budget, partly from donations. Every time it comes to donations, we have to express our skepticism, because in that old folk's "hand that gives is always above the hand that receives." Why would someone donate to our education? Understandable for economic reasons that foreigners will invest in our roads, factories, and anything that they can make profit from tomorrow. What profit can they get out of our education system? What's the real reason for giving donations to our school? It's something we all need to think about. I'm not going to say in advance that someone's got bad intentions. I don't know, I want to believe that people are well-intentioned, good, but by nature I'm a little suspicious and we should all think about it together, and everything we do today because of our children. It's a phrase that we all use from day to day, and how many phrases, how much we really feel and think, we're going to show today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30706	The word is by MP Dragan Pavlovic, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic. I apologize, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30707	A lot of things I've already talked to Bojan about, and let me just say one thing. It is true that the reform will partly come from donations. We've already concluded such contracts and we have the funds provided. But whether it's altroism or something. I'd say something else. And anyway, they suck brains out of this country. You can see that every day. Since we want to join the European Union in 2007 or 2010, they are fully aware that the free flow of people, labour forces, assumes that you have labour force. Therefore, they have an interest in investing these.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30708	The word is by MP Dragan Pavlovic, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, education is one of the main levers of society and the state where cultural, economic, technological, overall social development is educated. We today have before us a bill on the basis of the education and education system. According to the promoter, the new education and education system aims to create a flexible and modern system in education and education that will ensure that each individual can develop regardless of gender, race, national, language and religious membership. This educational system of ours corresponds with the demands of a democratic society, European integration, as well as many market laws and rests on the results of the analysis of the state and education carried out by world banks, UNICEF and others. It is necessary to go back a week to remind yourself of a law passed by this congregation, it is the Law on lustration. When a political party wants to retain power, political parties lustrate, especially those with a strong national idea, on the orders of their political mentors for some new modernism. It is the cancer of a national state's wounds, as Serbia should be. When masseurs from the West appear, the World Bank, OCD, Soros, NGOs always find a small political party that will participate in breaking the state but inside. The law on lustration, and now the law on education, if you want to end someone for a longer period of time, then you won't do it with war or economic sanctions, and you will do it with education. The Serbs have been in a slave position for centuries, but they have been preserved by knowledge and education in a strong national identity, and this has begun to be passed on to the monasteries, through priests, later on through the first teachers, and to this day through the former education, for which the legislator of the law, on these basic foundations of the system, says that it has become obsolete and that it is rigid, that it is not adapted to the nature of child learning. We have so far been proud of our education and knowledge of our students, students, who have demonstrated and won awards in many competitions. This law destroys a beautiful calling, calling a teacher. According to your current bill of law, which now in three phases, namely, takes nine years, nine years just to show that we are part of the European Community, we could prepare one of our old saying: "she saw a frog soaring, and so did she lift her legs," but she has a sequel, that the frog gets killed because the horses are run over, because it's in the wrong place. The job of calling teachers to be transferred by class teacher or teacher is reduced to three years, and as you imagine, it's more of a teaching job, or preschool education. For teachers, you ask them to have a high level of professional training, and for a certain period of time you will issue licences for everyone as if you suspect that they did well in the completion of their schooling, and thus you will slap them and all those professors at the university who passed on that knowledge to them, so you will check it at certain intervals. You're talking about some freedom of educational workers and their creativity or activity, and we have the biggest centralization in this law. The training you're doing with teachers who need to take over first class would be comical, if it wasn't tragic, a teacher who holds on to his knowledge and education won't give you a transitional grade, and what does that mean to you -- modern calling? Isn't all knowledge modern and applied at a given time since mankind's existence until now. With a law like this, not that we're gonna be in a vacuum, but we're not gonna be anywhere. A Swiss woman who was a disaster for our school system, and now we have Gasovica, a cataclysm for education and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30710	The People's MP Dusan Cvetkovic has the word, followed by MP Vladimir Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30711	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, the way in which, at today's session of the Assembly, this law on the foundations of the education and education system, as another one of the sets, calls the government's reform laws, shows that this legislative proposal has been laid to the Assembly as a coward's egg. Although the government has concluded that this law should go to congregation procedure by emergency procedure, as the Civil Council could, and I don't know whether or not the minister, it has been avoided. The basic desire of the ruling to adopt and adopt this law with as little noise as possible and without greater involvement in the most innovative scientific and educational circles of this country, including the Academy of Science, as the most important part of Serbia, this legislative proposal is included in the ordinary procedure, leaving to MPs and MPs less than one day, i.e. only Saturday for the submission of amendments. When it is known that we, as MPs, have not had the opportunity, unfortunately, as well as teachers who will apply it, to see neither the predicate nor the draft of this law, it is clear in what conditions we speak of it. My fellow MPs from the SPS-Free Milosevic and I were personally in a serious dilemma, whether or not to participate in the amendment of this law. We were aware that it was impossible for the amendments to fix what was incorrigible, and there are many such parts in this law, to mention only Articles 21 to 26. which are totally unacceptable. However, we have submitted 20 amendments with the hope that the civil council gentlemen who are the idea makers of this new Serbian disaster in education, at least to draw attention to the fact that the only solution to this law is to withdraw from the procedure. Unfortunately, it meant nothing to the minister to leave the meeting of the Education Committee by respected professor Bora Stanimirovic, a multi-year-old Dean of the Faculty of Teachers in Vrenj, to reconsider the withdrawal from the procedure of this law. However, when it became clear that there was nothing since the withdrawal, and when I was after yesterday's session, in fact it was the parent board, when I saw what concessions he was willing to make to Mr. Gašo Knezevic stretches out of power and ruling DOS in order for this miracle of the law to pass, I only have to say a few principles and essential remarks. First of all, I must say to the honourable fellow Members that this law is a problematic document whose adoption will have inconceivable consequences for the young generation of this country. If some elements are made according to global and European standards, it must be pointed out in particular that this law does not take into account at all the starting basis from which it arises. For ordinary people, he is completely incomprehensible and it seems when you read him that Serbian is not our material language, but if he had said it, perhaps even English. Which letter will be main and mandatory, there is not a word about it, whether it means Cyrillic or being cast out, I must say it's not clear. In this law, the laws in the field of education that the Socialists abolished have been without measure and for the right reasons long ago, as is the example because of the famously targeted education. Had it not been for the amendment of intervention, and the SPS parliamentary groups, in the objectives of education and education, would not even be involved in the development of awareness of morality. At the Committee session, Mr. Knezevic said that it was accepted to accept the part, the amendment and enter that part. If they were to seek what is the basic motive of the Government and the Civilian Alliance to pass such a law on the foundations of the education and education system, then one can say - it is a desire to break the education system completely at our school. The bottom line is, it would say, bringing us to Serbia in one position towards the part of the developed world and our introduction into a colonial position towards the world. When you look at this law more seriously, the fact is overwhelmingly imposed and the feeling that there is no school in Serbia until the day of today, to Mr Gaša Knezevic, and apparently there was no school or student. Based on how many sublegal acts are to determine the essence of the educational and educational process under this law should be passed for the next six months to a year, it is obvious that there is no rule of law here. When minors are in each important member, at the very end of the article the present name of the minister who prescribes or decides, it is clear that almost nothing of this law can be applied without his special signature. The minister is, just to be more specific, almost every eight members of this bill are present. The fact is that the responsibilities of the ministry of education, to this extent marginalised in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group, do not even have to exist as the ministry. The fact that only behind it hides the absolute rule of the minister clearly indicates that such legal formulations only want to hide the true truth. Although the lack of time of pressure, even though I will repeat myself with my fellow MPs, I must mention Article 132 of this Law, which states what all things fall into serious violations of labour obligations. I'm not sure that it's just the inadequacy of the promoter in the qualification of serious injuries to work obligations, a strong enough word for what they have offered us in this article. If the proposing under the same weight leads to the endangerment or violation of the physical or mental integrity of the child, i.e. the student, physical punishment, moral, sexual or otherwise committed abuse in the number 2 of this member, as well as the refusal to give the results of the written examination of the knowledge to students, parents or guardians, I would rather say that the equalisation of such provisions indicates precisely the moral character of the promoter, who dared to commit such diametrically different injuries to work obligations under the same article. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, does the same weight have the incentive to use alcoholic beverages or worse, to encourage drug use, on the one hand defined by number 6 and incompletely and untimely and unconsciously keeping records. Indeed, anyone who reads this Article 132 must remain only concerned. In the end, let me just say one more word about funding. The financing of those who will represent, I'd like to say something to some professors and teachers. If we know that in 2003 to finance these various councils and wonders, as provided for in this law, it will be necessary to allocate 369 million, which means a billion dinars if it is calculated for a year. It's amazing that these funds should be taken, practically as it says in the explanation, from the World Bank loan, at the moment that, according to all the most private and the most realistic economists, our country is going into an inconceivable debt crisis, so I think that to fund these combs for our education, there's really too much isolation. For all these reasons, and because of what my colleagues said in advance, the Socialist Party of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic, will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30712	The People's Messenger Vladimir Andric, after him, has the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30713	The Honored Presidency, Honored Ministers, Honorable People's MPs, Proposal for a Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, states in its explanation the following objectives of reform change: increasing the relevance of the school programme, increasing children's education by extending the duration of compulsory education to nine years, increasing the efficiency of the system through better use of existing investments and professionalisation. Under its programme, the Democratic Party of Serbia advocates these changes, for a fundamental reform of the education system. It is certain that the entire professional public is behind the view that education reform in Serbia is necessary. It is good that the Ministry of Education and Sports has joined the reform of education and education, but it must be seen more thoroughly and better prepared. Education is a pillar of every serious state and society and its reform must be prepared, planned and implemented over a long period of time, based, naturally, on its own pedagogical cultural tradition and global trends in education. Over the past two and a half years, we have pointed out the importance of education reform and the great delay in this area. The education system has been interesting for decades and has been pre-named in terms of the potential for a weakened economy, and in the end, it has suddenly begun to fail. The reform of education must be based on a comprehensive approach with a clear strategy and concept, which is supported by a pedagogical and wider public. To reform education, a minimum consensus of the widest part of the public is needed, but it is not there, because the wider public debate has never been launched. The Ministry of Education ignores a part of the professional institutions, teaching schools and professional societies, which are consciously not involved in the work of changes in the education system. The importance of reforming education had to be highlighted through greater involvement of the Parliament, on its immediate realization, which the government refused on the Committee on Education, not accepting our amendments. Namely, the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed that the Assembly form a top body in charge of setting up, implementing and monitoring reforms. By forming a national educational council, by the Serbian Parliament, could bring a general political pedagogical consensus. It would ensure the return of reforms to institutional frameworks, as a direct carrier of responsibility for its design, installation and implementation. The National Educational Council, as a body with the Ministry of Education, responsible for the Serbian Assembly, should consist of representatives of pre-school education, primary schools, high school, secondary vocational schools, art academys and universities in Serbia, as well as other institutions and bodies directly related to education. The National Educational Council must be a single body and cannot be pitched according to levels of education. Education is an integrated process consisting of segments that permeate and complement each other. All segments of education rest on the same and undivided interests of society and the same principles. The National Educational Council should, in a community with the Ministry of Education, develop a programme for reforming education and education. Finally, the National Educational Council proposes to the Serbian Parliament the final text of the education and education reform programme, to be adopted. At this point, not all the necessary preconditions for a comprehensive and serious reform are met, as well as a single round and efficient project. Uncritically, other people's solutions are proposed, which are inconclusive within such short notice. An example is teaching teachers to master new teaching methods. The obsolescence of teaching, where students are told a multitude of completed knowledge, with a request that they be changed as fully and literally as possible by a new way of teaching, in which knowledge is obtained as an independent of their own thought activity. It is impossible for teachers to inform, train and train in 12 days, to apply new modern didactic methods. This request for a better and more complex way of teaching in contradiction is with Article 126. A bill that increases the teaching norm to 24 hours, within the week's full-time. The Committee for Education of the Serbian Parliament has proposed an amendment to this member of the law, which sets the teaching norm of teachers at 20 hours a week. We hope that this amendment will be adopted because we all agree that the most important thing for the education system is quality. It assumes certain financial resources aimed at reducing the number of students in the department, reducing the teacher's fund, single-minded teaching, additional education of teaching staff, etc. In modern education systems, student evaluation is a very important phase of the teaching process. The draft law, in a new way, regulates the evaluation of pupils and the passing of correctional exams. The student now has the opportunity to pass a correctional exam of all subjects from which he has an insufficiently completed numerical grade, which will reflect understanding and motivation for work, one part of the students, during the year. When the reform began to be implemented, there were gaps in the system, lack of teachers, little time for training, for quality programs and textbooks. Given the negative experience of the country, where education reforms are done quickly, the Democratic Party of Serbia is pushing for a better readiness to start a reform of education. The observed situation and opportunities in society point to evolution, as the only possible way to change education and education systems. In the event of the acceptance of a faster and more risky method, changes could turn into their opposite. The critical views on reform have been expressed by many prominent experts, professional societies, the Unity and, most importantly, teachers. Many factors suggest that reform, or its implementation, is not working, because in the widest professional and pedagogical public, the agreement is almost reached, that the reform is swift and unprepared, that the concept itself is in a very vague way, that in the present general situation is realistic, and that it is materially unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30714	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, followed by MP Branko Ruzic. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group is available for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30715	Nothing's been done in school for the past 2.5 years. There was no change in the minister during that period. There are no improved material conditions in school. Secondly, the school has not been kicked out of what Serbian radicals insist on and most of the parents in Serbia are pushing for the admission exam. Third, no improved programs school. Fourthly, no improved material conditions and fifth conditions, no single intelligence has been reduced, which so far had the ministry and the minister himself. What will this minister and this ministry be remembered for? Because they've advocated universal, confirmed values that come from beyond the ocean. You must be aware of, not everything, nor content, nor the essence of your ministry that you will throw your colleagues out of college, nor what you will make these people feel the will of your employers that we all drink coke, that we all feed on McDonald's. There is something more valuable than a material minister, and that is something that is the tradition of this people. This tradition, which is also how it is preserved through education, obliges you as members of this people to just supplement with everything that has been confirmed, and it is advanced in Europe and the world, not to take for granted everything Mrs. Mongomer's will and taste. You know, ministers, in that place, many have entered the history of this people. Instead of standing in line, which is the head of Dositej Obradović, you are going in line to which Stipe Šuvar is headed. There is still a true anecdote, when Dosite Obradovic visited the house in Krušedol, visiting the monastery, he wrote, the host wrote - Dositej Obradovic passed through. Obradovic, the minister, left it to his people and children, and at least you are expected to leave two children to remember you by it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30716	The word has been given by MP Branko Ruzic, followed by MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30717	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Honorable Ministers, the Bill on the Foundations of the Education and Education System is a classic experiment with inconceivable negative consequences for the national wealth of the Serbian state, which is a young population. The application of this law, if the bill is passed, will lead to the collapse of our country's national tradition, culture and so on. The process of globalisation of course leads to the unification of all national cultural, traditional and educational systems of value. The reform of the education system cannot be carried out by red tape and centralisation of the system itself. It can't be done without an expert, serious and reasoned debate, which unfortunately has lagged here. The question for the minister is whether the reform of education, i.e. the education system, is contained in the moral-political likeness of teachers, which is practically prescribed by this law, in violation of human rights, in the field of labour law and trade union organisation, where the minister can practically, through the form of the licensing of certain teachers, leave without a job despite his professional arrangement, which meets certain standards, of course, and in preventing strikes. Then, is the reform that students can hypothetically have 12 units or 12 weak during one school year and pass that school year if they pass the correctional exams in June and August of the month. Is the reform in the existence of three councils, one of which is a council for harmonising the work of these two previous councils and in the existence of seven republican centres, where, of course, Serbia's budget, and hence, citizens will be greatly damaged, and only for the reasons of red tape. According to this law, the minister decides practically everything, gets the powers that he does not belong to in democratic societies in the area of the education system. What the minister also mentioned here in his previous address, he talked about the brain drain or how he likes to say Brain Drain, and with this law, the young population of Serbia will be in a lot of brainwashed or in order to better understand it will be brain nash because by applying this law, unless God is adopted, from a young population in Serbia, it is a simple policy that will not lead to a quality solution. As far as the criminal measures of this law are concerned, the minister is practically able to close an educational or educational institution and I am interested in, since we have entered the Council of Europe, how these provisions of the law will reflect, if applied, on those international standards that we have accepted. In any case, the education system will in this way not be characterized by the interest of the young population in Serbia and will not be characterized by the state and national interest in the sphere of education and education of our young population, but is exclusively characterized by the process of globalisation and practically prescribed norms of certain laws in some foreign countries. Just to remind, in some countries such as Slovenia, the public debate on reform of the education system lasted more than five years and prepared for the reform. This is where the public debate is practically kept secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30718	National MP, time at the disposal of the parliamentary group has been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30719	I'm sorry, ten more seconds. Yesterday, the minister said that the Serbian Academy of Science and Art was not consulted for reasons of the scientific institution. That speaks enough of the seriousness of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30720	Dragisa Djokovic's MP has the word, and the following MP Dragan Todorovic has been reported, but the SPS parliamentary group has no more time available, so after MP Dragisa Djokovic, the MP Marina Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30721	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you 60 and a hundred cards present today, we are discussing a very important law, which is reform. I welcome you to the audience, Mr. Micovic, and I welcome the cards. We are discussing a very important law in this environment and in this environment. I'm just going to remind you, in education reform, that we've introduced one subject, and it's been a religion, so it's taken us so long, so much preparation, it's been so tight and it's been so hard, and the whole reform, the whole system of education and education we have to do in about two months and so on. Well, they've seen it alive. If the law goes through, we'll see how it goes. Unfortunately, human experiments aren't good experiments. What I wanted to draw your attention to, too, is the terminology used in this bill explanation. It's a clear termology, because you've all got a letter that the Departments of Serbian Language and Literature are not consulted, so you can get an explanation in style -- now the current programs are obsolete and rigid, in them there are too many partial facts without transfer value, they're completely centralized. Furthermore, when said - inclusions of marginal groups, retention of content etc. When they say -- says Serbian that the whole world understands you, this is absolutely not written in Serbian and Serbian terms. If we pretend to reform education, I think we should reform our traditions and our cultural values in the spirit of our language. What I also want to say to you is that I did not go out to discuss Mr Mitrovic and Minister Knezevic when it comes to schooling in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and I did not intend to deny the minister and defend that fact or ask for increased salaries. Educational workers downstairs share the fate of the people living downstairs and share the fate of other educators, but what is important, the educational system of those children and parents, who want to school under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, must be preserved and must apply. I'm glad the minister confirmed it for this speaker, that it will be valid and that it will continue. I say one more time, I'm not asking for the salary to be 200%, and I'm asking for additional material costs, but for the employment and presence of the ministry. Because let us remind ourselves for a little while, without pathetics and demagogy, that these Albanian schools have served every possible manipulation, and one-national poisoning, and demonstrations, and the source of all possible problems and everything else, so that we must not engage in this story. It's not my idea to make Albanians learn their schools again, we don't need to have St. Eujidio, Don Vincenzo, Palja, etc., but that we have our education system for those who will, and those who want a system of education under Tirana, Ankara, Tehran or others, so be it. So that's an observation, I say once again, which the minister mentioned, but not to be inconsistencies, there's a lot more to it, there's not enough engagement on school boards and, let's say, activities on the selection of directors and the rest. I hope this time you won't have any problems at the ministry, as you did last year, when some parent and others' advice came in, and when Mrs. Serbiana Turajlic directed you to, how she likes to beat them, Mont, and that's shortened -- the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology of Kosovo. We don't need the mont, we have our Ministry of Education and we want it to stay that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30722	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would hate to, indeed, go out to the Rules of Procedure to point out that there are not enough MPs in this room to keep the session going. It would be the office of president or chairman in this assembly. Indeed, on the agenda is an extremely important system law, which concerns all of us, our children, educational workers and states in general, and here, as you can see, there are certainly 40 MPs of the opposition and I would ask you to, in accordance with Article 82(2), establish a quorum and provide a quorum for the continuation of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30724	I ask the MPs to determine if there is a quorum needed to work. Here you go. I realize we have the quorum needed to work. The word has a folk MP Marina Stamenkovic, followed by MP Miodrag Jacimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30725	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, the education and education system is a very important area of every society. The situation in the society that we have in Serbia is alarming. When this system law has not been passed much earlier, in the system of government reform, and when its adoption has not already been passed, it needs to be delayed by a year, in order to establish this very important law through public debate. By 2000, all areas of social life had devalued. This was the most reflected in the education and education system. Society is in crisis. After democratic changes, there was an deepening of the poor situation in the area of education and education. Education and education is the basis of every serious state, society and nation. The situation in education and education is a reflection of overall social relations. The proposal for this law is not for single use but is adopted for a longer period. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia considers it necessary to postpone the law-making process, as it will face major problems. Pedagogical preparation of teaching programs and plans, the adaptation of textbooks and their production, the education of teachers and teachers, so all this takes time. The pedagogical public rejected the bill and all the relevant factors responded against it, and the ministry deafened to it without public debate, and the Assembly, by emergency procedure, put this law in the assembly procedure. In the bill, the school programme covers and requires further education of professors and teachers, especially in the part where, depending on the class, the percentage of creativity increases. The question arises whether enough time and expertise, especially for the first generation of education that lasted for three days or whether it lasted a week, as it has been implemented so far, as some premeditation of the adoption of this law or when it has not been implemented at all. Article 111 sets out the standards of knowledge, skills, skills needed for teachers, teachers and educators. So it's about the license. This license is given by the minister. This licence raises the issue of similarity for licensing. The bill also regulates the scope of the student evaluation in the case from which it has an insufficient grade. A corrective exam shall be passed in June and August, as provided for by the draft law. The question now arises whether it is feasible for five days, so within the June deadline, to be laid, for example, four cases from which the student has insufficient grades. So, August's test deadline is a realistic deadline for law students who have the right to take four exams, because over four repeat classes. The provision of Article 109(9) provides for the payment of the actual costs determined by the school when passing the final exam. So this causes one demotivation for learning, I mean the process of learning during the year, while opening up the possibility of abuses that are present today. Despite the fact that the license can be revoked. As the bill builds a new education and education system in Serbia, it is necessary to educate the widest national consent in the area of education and education that is the only one left as a national state space, while trying to break it one way. The last foothold of this national identity. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed amendments to the introduction of a National Educational Council, so, in addition to the Educational Council, the Council for Professional Education and Conciliation Councils, which is contained in the draft law, proposed by the government. Professional support for all of this can be achieved if the Assembly, on a proposal from the Education Committee, selects a body, so the advice, which is made up of experts from areas directly or indirectly related to the educational process. The importance of this National Educational Council requires professional involvement of elected members, without any political selection. The National Educational Council elects the Assembly to be independent in its work and to be transparent, which means subject to control by the Assembly. I would draw attention to the situation in this area of education and education, which is specific, may not be. In the municipality of Vranje, in the Pcinj County, in a large number of primary and secondary schools, the status of director is not resolved. So the directors have a V.D. The specificity of the Pcinj County and the municipalities in it, in particular the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities, which due to the majority Albanian population and latent migration of Serbs from these municipalities, should the education and education system be put within the framework of the political and security situation and the presence of a large number of NGOs present for humanitarian reasons, with the aim of financing the construction, repair of schools, equipment and education that goes with the equipment. Through this kind of help, the intention to integrate the Albanian population, which is largely illiterate, is seen. Does this belong to the security sphere, because the Albanian population and de facto and de jure live in Serbia. Is the Ministry familiar with the programmes of these NGOs and that they eventually do not enter the field of education and education and education of teaching. It happens that their help also reaches the municipality of Vranje, which receives charity in terms of repairing the roof of the school, the computer. The NGO "Kabak" is present at the primary school "Dositej Obradović" in Vranj, so the school has better conditions and equipment and teachers in it have higher salaries. Finally, to conclude, the future generations will be subject to, as a result of this law, through a system of education and education, for every kind of mental manipulation, and even political, and will lose the existence of a national being.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30726	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30727	I know she's a colleague from the Vranj municipality and I want to draw her attention to one thing that happened there. In fact, the municipal authorities made a decision to replace the school boards in all schools, completely counter-legislative, because they also replaced those people the government had set up. That way we can't function, we won't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30728	The word has a People's MP, Miodrag Jacimovic. The remaining time of the DSS parliamentary group is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30729	Dear Members of the People, I speak to you as a person who has spent all his working life in the classroom. I was never the head of school or his deputy. I worked for four years at an eight-year-old school, as it was then called, and the rest in high school, so I can talk about school stuff with full rights, because my experience is really great. As far as I'm aware from the press, this law was made by people who didn't work in grade school or high school, so I can't even build a school law. The commission had to have teachers from both primary and secondary schools who knew what class was, what class was and what the professor was facing in class and what he could do. First of all, it's not right, according to Article 59, that a teacher's license should be suspended by the Director if he's four years director. If he's four years old, he can't go back to class. The director has a 20% higher salary for that function for now, and then, practically, he's out of a job. Then who's gonna be head of school? Article 60 says, "If the minister does not make a decision on the selection of directors within 30 days, the director is deemed not to have been elected." I guess he was chosen then, for God's sake. In article 64-- when the head of the school ceases his mandate: "If there is no place in his school, after six months of waiting, he loses his job." I say again, who will accept the position of director? Article 84 states: "The Republic provides free schooling for primary and regular high school students. "Does this mean that students have free textbooks, like in some countries of Europe, for example, in Germany or will it be the same as so far, that the student, or parent, pays all school obligations. This really isn't clear. You know what free schooling is, what's not free schooling. Article 102 states that each student is assessed at least four times in the midterm. This can be achieved if there are between 18 and 20 students in the department, and with the current condition of more than 30 students, it is impossible. Do the editors of this law know that? As for the traineeship of the professor, Article 114 provides that the traineeship should last for a maximum period of two years. So far, 100 years ago, it's lasted up to five years. This period of up to two years is too short and cannot be accepted. It's too drastic to fire an intern or, at one time, it was called a supplent, after the second year he quit. The strangest thing is to predict a Sunday standard of 24 hours, which is unacceptable. So far, it has been that the subject who teaches the native language or mathematics, as well as the foreign language, due to written assignments, has 18 hours, and most of all, when he passes a professional exam, 20 hours. This increase is too big. Do the bill's proposals know what it means every working day to teach five classes a day? Should we prepare classes and review written assignments and written exercises? I'm sure a professor's working hours would be 50 hours a week. Who works that much? It would be the same if we increased the workers in production and others from eight hours to 11 hours in hours. Imagine, from 18 to 24. That's a third. I should remind you that the standard of the class between the two world wars, if you didn't know, was 12 to 15, look at the documents, look at the school reports, and only those who taught gymnastics and drawing had 22, 24 hours. Now we're going to double-time here. We say that that time was expendable, etc., and now we're doubling our hours to professors. The professor really can't teach 24 hours, plus the class elder's class, that's 25. That's five hours a day. Does anyone know who was teaching, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30730	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask whether the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, who did not take advantage of this right in Article 89. The Rules of Procedure, they want a word? National MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30731	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the very way of passing this law can be the paradigm of what we are trying to achieve in this Parliament and in the government in these past two years, in the adoption of laws and in defining new normative acts that regulate particularly important areas of social life. So, consulting, both experts of the World Bank, OECD, UNICEF, and about 9,000 that educational workers, which is a representative of parents, which scientists, when drawing up this law, are saying in favour of the proposing trying to achieve as wide a consensus as possible of the professional and scientific public on this matter. When law is passed, it's unusually important. That is why I am convinced that this law will meet the proper support in this House. This law raises the relevance of what our children in primary and secondary schools learn. We have a problem with the Hornish, our education of what is school matter, simple reproduction without much inference, without learning that students think logically, without using what is essential knowledge that will be needed during further education, therefore, usable knowledge, not knowledge that will be purely mechanical and that will be very soon forgotten. Teacher education is one of the key preconditions for such a doactic process to be developed, teacher education, not only at the level of higher schools completed, but also at the level of passing additional exams, at the level of additional courses and at the level of continuous renewal of what educational workers must possess, so knowledge of matter from the point of view of what is the current trend in the world, from the point of view of what is the latest achievements of science in the area for which it corresponds. Standards and evaluation, knowledge after that will be quite different. By applying this law, we have students who will leave high school and who will be ready for university, students who will be able to praise and know the categories that relate to the general culture, not necessarily to the profession, and not exclusively to what is related to their calling. The market, professionalization, are also concepts that we can meet in this law. Something that's unusually important. Defining what is needed in a broader social context. That degree of education in a quantitative and qualitative sense, that meets the needs of our society. And professionalization, managerial staff at schools, is neither a teacher nor a school manager, nor does one or another work in a satisfactory way, but the professionalization of people who will be involved in this management work in the future. And practically creating a new structure of people who will be specialized just to run educational institutions properly. Our students don't have enough knowledge. It's not information, it's not environmental, it's not human rights. So, something that today is a basic prerequisite for you to be called citizens of Europe. And this law also creates conditions for such knowledge to be obtained in an appropriate way and that students are educated in such a way that communication via the Internet is the usual way of communication as is the usual in countries, how common is the phone or some other way of communication. Nine years of compulsory education also has its good side. It brings what they please, how from the perspective of the general education of the population. General education is increasing, the education of qualified workers is increasing, the number of qualified workers is being respected, and European standards are being respected. It seems to me that Serbia is one of the extremely rare countries that has not applied these standards in this way yet, and is reducing social pathology that is always in reverse proportional to the degree of education of the population. So, nine years that have been divided into three cycles, which less traumatically break the period between the transitions that we have today from primary school to high school, and the functioning of teaching and grading and education, less traumaticly, more gradually and with more continuity than this has ever been the case. Professional support provided through the development of education will not be when we adopt this law reduced to the support of the administration or bureaucratised in the way we had the previous case. So, at the ministry level, to define everything that is a criterion and everything that is necessary to renew in the process of education, in order for the education process to be better quality than the creation of a network of institutions, advices and centres that depolitised enable the educational process to be as high-quality as possible. The very composition of the education council disproves those who say that everything is focused on the level of the ministry and that all these powers relating to the process of education are related to the minister. So, representatives of both the ministries and local self-government, national minorities, church churches, professional associations and associations speak in favour of putting a clear accent on the fact that the area of education is from a wider social interest and that they must be defined in such a way and the bodies that depend on how high the process will be. Also a new type of school program that, by the logic of things, is also a new way of functioning and establishing standards in this area, is something that continuously follows the law from the first to the last member. Establishing licences as a standard for education is also something that is a fully established practice in the world. It is something that will contribute to the current education, to be updated in a way that teachers will acquire these knowledge and have to follow that area that they cover as teachers, and that these new knowledge, new achievements, apply in the teaching process and transfer them directly to their students. The institution of the student parliament, more like a marked moment, than something that would be one of the key points of this law, is certainly a good attempt and a good path, and then we have an institution of the student parliament that follows immediately after the completion of high school, a good way to develop parliamentaryity in younger generations, to establish standards, behaviours, respect for second opinion, and certainly on the other hand to involve students in the process of education in the way they can make their suggestions, by giving development opinions with teachers to point to what is necessary. Due to all this, the DOS Parliament Club – Serbia's Reform – believes this bill is a prerequisite for establishing a more modern, better quality and more successful education, and therefore we will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30732	National MP Nenad Lemajic, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30733	The assembly debate showed that differences in education and education reform models of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Serbian government are indeed minimal. These differences are not large, and the DSS has formulated them into two groups of amendments. The first group of amendments is related to the educational norm, which must be formed as an expression of a child's pedagogical experience in Serbia. This can be done by forming an independent National Educational Council government, whose primary task would be to take care of this educational norm. Why is this important to us, and why is it even important? First of all, it's because the educational public, and the public is divided and upset. There are many who reject this reform in general. There are those who put a series of grudges, and there are those who reform it. What's quite certain? It is certain that there is no unity in reform. Education reform is really important. This unity must be achieved. The second group of amendments is time-bound. Time is a dimension that affects everything and often represents the small difference between success and failure. It's not said to the people in vain "to arrive in time, to arrive at the right time, not yet time or time". In Romania, they thought it was a good time to reform education right away. And they've come to the end of the reform. In Slovenia, the time of the reform was shifted. It seems to prove to be the right solution. Why do we believe that the start of the reform should be delayed? It's precisely because of a series of good solutions in the law, because the law predicts decentralisation of many things, a lot is being transferred to schools. Are schools really capable of carrying such a burden at this point? According to the Ministry, they did. We think they haven't yet, that we should work on it. The new formation of real plans and programmes is an extremely good solution, but it also foresees to a significant extent that schools influence it, to have a much greater impact. We don't think schools are capable of that yet. What do you do in this situation? Adopt the DSS amendments that would form a national educational council and thus delay the deadline for implementation by one year. This year, use to catch breath, achieve a much higher level of preparation of documents, to make plans and programmes, to improve the education of teaching staff, to create textbooks, and to win the educational public, because remember, reform should be carried out by educational public, reform should be carried out by teachers at school, and if we do, the government would have full support for the DSS. Without that, unfortunately, we enter a field where we will compromise and what is in the law is good, and there are very good solutions in it, but they are self-insulated and will not bring about any change for the better. Let's not play with 70,000 students, for one whole generation, we have no right to do that. Already with the students, as with the whole country, many have played in a tragic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30734	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? Natasa Milojevic, president of the SDP parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30735	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow MPs, only briefly as a summary of what we talked about at the beginning of the debate in the principle of the law on education and education. Over the past two days, how long the debate has been going on, and I will remind the public of our basic position regarding the participation of representative unions in bodies, above all, the advice and other bodies of decision-making on education and education, such as school boards, or boards of directors. Then I will remind myself of the requirement relating to the change in the concept of employment in this area, because we want the provisions of the labour law that provide for collective agreements as a form and form of profit bargaining and other material fees for employees in education to be applied. Then, we want no good idea about the license to be born in any way and the vague fourth position of Article 164 to change, or explain what can be done. According to our deep conviction and technical editorials, that's fine. The education unions reacted yesterday to their press conferences, addressing the public and addressing those in charge of passing this law, which is what we are first of all. I believe that these union warnings are very serious and that they are not just, although they have been happening in our experiences, an empty threat, not to say blackmail by those who want to achieve a better position by social conflict, or even strike, or seek benefits. Once again, I remind you of where in the key amendment to the SDP's 143rd parliamentary group, our idea of applying the labour law is contained when it comes to employees in education. I deeply believe that Minister Knezevic, along with a group of experts who closely monitors this debate, will reconsider this and that once we move to a debate in particular with an additional argument, will be able to conclude that this idea of the SDP parliamentary group that I represent will be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30736	Are there any more reports by the representative groups? No, I don't. ) The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30737	Dear People's MPs, the President-in-Office, I would like to ask you first one general question, do we have as MPs, as people chosen by the people the right to maintain, or retain in the present state. How and who will explain to parents, that their children continue in the old system, that they will receive unnecessary content, unusable, outdated, how we will explain to parents that they continue to teach by old ageing methods, how we will explain to parents that their children still have to go to schools that they don't really like, besides all the discussions here, that is, the fact that they go to schools that they run away from, and that, subconsciously, and completely consciously, they have to forget all the data they get from school as fax bombings. How do you explain to parents that their children are learning by methods that are exceeded? These are all questions, actually questions that don't have answers. They don't have answers, because the answers are that we'll explain, I don't accept. I don't accept the responsibility of informing my parents about the bad news. If we try piloting, it's one of the ideas, then we should inform 50% of parents that their children won't leave for another year. So, again, it's one unpleasant news that's being passed on to parents. It is said that the programme did not have time to serve, that it needs more time, an example of Slovenia that has gone slower, but don't forget that even the last starting position has an advantage. This time the advantage is that you see who is ahead of you, see their mistakes and use their experiences. Their experiences and their mistakes can be a function of shortening our time. A team at the Ministry that finished the work tried to take advantage of it all. We think we've saved one system in quite a filigree way and we think there's time for implementation. This information I'm about to give you, I don't like what I'm saying, I don't like it, because it can be operated differently with them. These data, some of them went out in their daily journals and were immediately abused. Therefore, I ask you, for the sake of your education, to use very carefully the information you will now be hearing. In 2000, Nenad Havelka came to them, and if anyone doesn't know who Nenad Havelka is, he's a professor of Philosophy College, a man who's retired now, he's a very serious worker and a man who's devoted his entire life to studying education. He's one of the most involved in reform. I'm trying to tell Mr. Professor from Cačka that among the 256 people who were in reform, there must be 150 teachers and teachers. The other problem is that it's not you or your neighbor, but it's teachers and teachers. Now the data I'm going to give you is the following: 30% of children who finish eighth grade education can't round up decimals; 80% don't understand the key concepts; 50% don't understand what they read, i.e. It's functionally illiterate. What is particularly devastating, which all this data reflects by dissociating socially in one country, because in these 30% are children of higher education than others. In those 30%, who can't circle the decimals, they're not children of educators, they're children of unemployed workers. Please use this information only in extreme need. A pizza test is a test that is taken seriously everywhere in the world. Those involved in education know that when the Germans faced a pizza test and its results last year, they questioned their entire education system. The famous pedant, the traditional Germans. The Pisa text says that solving problems is one quarter of the problem solved by 70 percent of the population, three-quarters of the problem solved, 0% of the population. It's math. In science, one quarter of the jobs were solved by 60% of the children. Three-quarters- 10% of the children saved. My lords, this data is ringing the alarm. These data to all those whose education is close to the heart, or in the sight of the profession, ring the alarm. We don't have the right to delay any more because of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30738	I thank Mr. Secretary. I hereby conclude the search in principle and in agreement with Article 136(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30739	Dear Mrs Micic, dear fellow MPs, today is June 5th, World Environment Day. I congratulate you, as president of the board. On the basis of Article 137. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, given the dynamics of the debate that awaits us by the end of the day and next week, I suggest that the discussion of the details lasts for up to three minutes. I ask the Assembly to make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30740	I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Sinisha Mitrovica to hold the debate in detail for three minutes. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I'm closing the vote. I find that for 75, against 48, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 26, a total of 149. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal from the MP Sinisha Mitrovica to hold a discussion in detail for three minutes. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30741	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, although it is without substance to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure now, I will do so for principled reasons, because the damage has already occurred, since you have decided on the proposal of an unauthorized promoter. I would ask you, Madam Chairman, to look at article 89 which clearly states who can make a proposal of any kind. The head of the DOS parliamentary club was at the time of the motion to shorten the debate in the O.R. It's not the first time that something like that happens, when someone else wants to come out, make any suggestions, you always say -- you can't do that, only the boss can do that. But even so, shortening the debate on such an important subject for three minutes, I don't know what it's all about, except that everyone here...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30742	I give you a warning on the basis of Article 102 of the People's MP Slobodan Janjic, giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30743	This is really unserious of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30744	I do not think there are any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Article 89, and so far we have allowed as I have allowed you, as deputies, although the president was in the O.R., as I allow all other parliamentary groups and the DSS and everyone else, this also applies to the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group. Therefore, I believe there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and since Mrs Pop-Lazic is not satisfied with the answer, the Administrative Board will decide on the injury. We're moving on to a discussion in detail. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is the applicant applying for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic. Write a warning to this Lamb. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30745	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 2(2), I asked to delete the text: "that the possibility of education and education, on equal terms and in economically underdeveloped areas, as well as social, or culturally less stimulating environments". I don't think I'm a member of 2nd at point 2. It doesn't correspond to the real fact that it's currently in the country. The fact is, for a long time, the education, pre-school, basic, and medium, in the most part, will be more than 90%, to be a state. The economic power of the state is not able to respect this part of Article 2. It's a bill of law. The principle is that the network of institutions of pre-, primary and secondary education depends on the economic power of founders and the need for each environment and should not be provided with one of these laws. Earlier, the consequence of all this could be that there are more teachers in one school than students. Also, the profiles themselves, because equality is that all the profiles that schools have in high schools are equally high, which often does not reflect the right picture of the need for such personnel. It may occur that certain schools or bodies of local self-government, on whose territories these schools are located, are educated by personnel who will never work on the territory of the municipality, because simply for the profiling of their profession they do not have relevant jobs. What Mr. Minister said, for 30% of the students, that he didn't know how to round up a third decimal, I was a little surprised. I did go to technical schools and primary schools on a similar education system and didn't know just 5%. So it's not because of the system itself and the way it's trained, maybe it's another consequence, the current economic situation, the culture of those students, the culture of those parents, and most importantly, the culture of those teachers who teach them, not the very education system. If you're bringing kids to school and learning through the game, you can do it in the first, second and third classes, and what you'll do later. Djaci will still run from school based on his old habits, based on his culture and education. No law will stop them from doing so, except for their parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30746	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30747	In Article 2, it is listed in seven points what is provided to the education system. The amendment, which Mr Arsic explained, requires the removal of Article 2 because we consider it to be just a declarative character and that it is put into this article, although it is practically impossible to implement it. I understand the availability of education and education to all under the same conditions in point 1. In point 2. quality education and education that ensures the acquisition of language, mathematical, scientific, artistic, cultural, health, environmental and information literacy, also fine. What is particularly important and what should be the subject of the reform is contained in point 4. - education and education that corresponds to the degree of development and age of children, i.e. students, because that is the biggest problem of our programmes, to study certain materials at a certain age. Equal opportunities for education of children and students with developmental disorders, and if we provide that, it will be good. So far, our children, as far as I'm concerned, have not been able to attend high school in Serbia with developmental disturbances. I guess there was only one high school for such children in Podgorica. If they were intellectually preserved, and if they had motor problems, they had to go to Podgorica to study high school. Encouraging students to obtain as high a level of education as possible, of course, should be the goal of both maximum horizontal and vertical mobility within the education and education system. I also think that this is too high in the sense that the education system should provide vertical mobility, and as far as horizontal mobility is concerned, it's probably meant to go from school to school, which is sometimes a problem. I personally had a problem of that kind. On the occasion of another amendment, I'm going to bring it out, even though it's of a personal nature. I don't know how you think you can make sure that, say, in Medvedja or in some more passive areas, children can be made available under the same conditions, to any high school or one that's interesting for that area, such as Belgrade or Novi Sad. I understand that it is a wish, but it will be impossible to achieve it, especially if it is primarily influenced by finance, and the right to tell you I don't know, and I would like to know, that the minister tells us how many schools have been built. I know how long it's been cut out, how many schools have gotten some other purpose. What's causing it? That should be something to deal with, among other things, this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30748	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Rada Bajic and Toma Busetic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law is meaningless and logical, as this article, paragraph 6, proves. Article 2 in point 6 states, first of all, that the education and training system provides for encouraging students to get as high education as possible, which is fine, but is still in the text and as much involvement in the lifelong learning process as possible. What does lifelong learning mean? Maybe the minister was thinking about Lenin and his password and his foreign exchange -- learning, learning and just learning. Simply, this part of the text is too high, but in this bill there's a lot that's too high. There are too many advices, centers, and just what it's all about. The only excuse may be that many people will be employed in these centres and these councils and that even such a small budget, which is intended for education, will be additionally burdened. We believe that this provision in Article 2 at point 6 is also kind of absurd, but much is absurd in this bill, even when the minister says that this law will depolitise education. If we take just one example, the way in which the managing authority chooses, which is, for example, School committees in elementary schools, where local self-government representatives will have four members, and the staff of three members and what a depolitisation it is, as schools will be defacto managed by politicians. What are the authorities in local self-government to people from parties who win the election? Simply, this whole law is not reformal, as it is said, only if the reforms do not involve various descriptive evaluations, the transition to several classes with ten or more insufficient grades or licences for teachers, teachers, teachers, which is in some way the introduction of moral-political similarities. Finally, the minister as a member of the government can tell us, and we disagree at all with their reforms, what the DOS is proposing. These are reforms that involve factories without workers, armies without soldiers, and schools without learning and knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30750	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30751	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, has rightly noticed that this point is too high, especially when it comes to proposing such measures. If there had been a public debate, and Mr. Pajtic had mentioned a 9,000 figure earlier, and I don't know where he found them and who was so informed when it was known that there was no public debate, and then this attitude would probably not have happened either. First, if we look at the work of education and education, then they are done as preschool, and they mean primary and secondary education. If you compare points 4 and 6 you'll see that they're contradictory. Point 4 is perfectly fine, education and education that corresponds to the degree of development and age of the child, i.e. the student. We must always start with the psychophysical abilities of students and dose him as much as he can understand. Now we're going to go to one preschool or one first grade student, prepare him for life education, explain to him that he understands it. That was our main argument, which is why we ask that this attitude be changed and that it is -- encouraging students to get as much education as possible. If anyone asked me, I'd wipe this attitude in general, because someone said a little while ago if we were preparing someone to do something in this country, to do agriculture, etc. If this pattern is taken from a Western school, and certainly not, because they practically allow for further education only to those who have opportunities, primarily psychophysical, as well as opportunities that show on exams. That's one of the reasons why we suggest that this attitude be changed. Here, when it comes to Article 2, I think we need to understand in this reform that it affects first of all that attempt, what we have in the government proposal, that first and second classes serve more for the game, and that later they can be educated, or schooled. If our children are going to school early, and they're going to go safely at six years, maybe not now, but in a year, two, three, we need to create such conditions, we need to find some environment between what is now and what is going to be. It's unsustainable for both of us, and neither for what we have now, for first grade students to teach us such complex teaching units, according to such complex programs, and for now to create a situation for them to play for two years. Well, even if we do, we don't even have the conditions to play. Carefully, to play with children, it is necessary to create certain conditions in school, and it is clear what resources are needed for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30752	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30753	I am in a dilemma whether to support this amendment or to interpret it in a different way, since it is about encouraging students to gain as much education as possible. I suppose university and post-university, and as much involvement in the lifelong learning process as possible. I don't know if it means scientific work or thinking beyond, in the sense that we need to teach young generations to be ready to adopt new knowledge all their lives, but given that one high-ranking official of the failed state community has passed 28 exams in 11 days, I think we have a bad example at the time of this DOS government, if they want to affirm this attitude. You know it's about Free Orlic yourself. He was a very good example to allow him to study for life and to pass those exams, like all other students at Belgrade University.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30754	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Are you looking for a replica? The right to replica has a National MP, Natasa Milojevic, president of the SDP parliamentary group. (Glass: on what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30755	Mr. Slobodan Orlic, Federal Secretary for Information and, that is, Director of the Information Directorate at the Council of Ministers of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, is a graduate marketing expert. The diploma and the proof of it, I'll put it to the attention of everyone who needs it. But since this is not the subject of today's debate, I ask my colleague from the SRS parliamentary group not to give me any more opportunities for replication, because then you're going to have to give me all kinds of evidence about your levels of education, and that's not quite right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30756	Please don't throw it away. There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. On the 2nd amendment with the correction, MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic submitted together. (Glass: a whole assembly of MPs.) Is there an application for a word? Here's a word from MP Vladimir Garčević. The Education Committee has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30757	Dear Madam President, respected ministers, associates, respected fellow Members of the People, we are constantly talking about reform, reform. I need to distract the Minister about that 9,000-dollar data. You probably had so much, but not in this law. Not in this one. I attended a meeting at the Sava Centre once, and there was experience of foreign countries in Romania, and that is not the most important thing to remember now, there is much that could be heard and I accept it. But when it comes to this education, there was no such discussion or public procedure, which I mean from school to school, to hear, to hear, to hear, to obtain from the field the confirmation of teaching councils. I don't recognize individuals who are being sent and singled out groups that will support something or not. I recognize a teacher's council as the organs that will decide on every issue and for me as a professional body, not politically, remain a teacher's council and the addition of their views would be of great benefit and I think it's been dropped here. I'm afraid the same thing will be dropped with the program. You have included and created working groups, and on the formal side there is nothing against you, but on the other hand, none of these groups are determined by professional activities or by teaching councils, which will participate in them. That is why we are now coming to the conclusion that problems will arise again, and believe me, there is no feedback. I'm here two, three months ago saying no with you, and you said find it. Who can force anyone, if not the Ministry, to say it's an obligation, to go to a teacher's council. The Ministry can do that. Next, we've been arguing here about collective agreements. Whether they belong or not, we can argue about it, but we can't continue to argue that it's necessary in the whole system, if it stands here -- and other laws. A participant in the process of education and his work is a teacher. At the very least, in the process of working, the participant and in regulating it is also a student in the economy. Let's call him that. So that entire segment has to be regulated. Whether it will be collective agreements, laws or sublaws, I think that in the complete system of education, I agree that there is the most important student, and there is no dilemma in this respect, but, secondly, the most important thing is the knowledge they will gain in this process. It is important in the whole system to have three segments - student, parent, teacher. It means inside that process, and on the outside, it's a social community. We have to stick to that setting. However, I do not see for any moment that the decentralisation was carried out in that part of the decentralisation if workers do not have rights but go as state institutions in the further part of the text. Therefore, some things could have been accepted and not affected in these nine years, and I see that the Legislative Committee has accepted this proposal, but well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30758	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, Minister of Education Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30759	Article 2 in the last position says - specific laws in the field of education remain specific laws. It's actually about three laws, Mr. Garcevic, I'm sorry, but I'm trying to speak to you. It's about three laws. Preschool law, basic law and high school law, and that's the point. It's these three special laws. Collective contracts simply cannot be applied because the work of education cannot be regulated by a collective agreement. It's out of my mind and I totally understand the Legislative Committee for saying so.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30760	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30761	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 concerning the objectives of education and education. In the first position, we have one sentence that is very problematicly set, where it is said about the work of education and education, and it says - is done to ensure optimal conditions for the formation of individual and social characteristics of children, students and adults, which contributes to their overall development, the development of a democratic society, and the changing world. I think it's a sentence that certainly should not stand in the way of education and education, especially by being tailored to say that it will contribute to the development of a democratic society in elementary school. Gentlemen, the development of a democratic society needs to be done primarily by the government. Since 1990, when a multi-party system was introduced, we have had the transfer of assembly sessions, and now with the development of a democratic society, even that kind of information of citizens has been abolished. There is no way we can talk about some of the principles of democratic society when we abolish basic civil rights for information, and it is particularly funny to talk about development, that children in primary school will contribute to the development of a changing world. These are so radically written sentences, so in my amendment, I suggest that this attitude 1 is not even necessary when it comes to the objectives of education and education. What is essential, that is point 5), which reads: "Developing awareness of statehood and fostering tradition and culture". You can see again that you can't think of the word "national." You're talking about tradition, you're talking about culture, and nationally, it's something foreign to you. You're literally getting an allergy from the word "national." How can we talk about culture and tradition if we do not talk about national culture and tradition? It's important to you: "about statehood." What kind of country do you teach kids this year, and what are you going to teach kids in two years? Today we have a state, a community that probably, in two years, will no longer be a pan of state. What's safe and natural is a nation. What is natural is that you should teach children the tradition and culture of the Serbian people. Point 6: "Enable the inclusion in the process of universal integration". It's interesting again. There is talk of enabling integration into the European integration process, only European. Gentlemen, if we raise and educate children, we still can't commit to Europe alone. I guess universal integration is more important than European integration. European integration will have some time to last, and after that, we will obviously be moving towards the whole world again. In the end, point 9: "Contribution of pluralism of value". To rule out pluralism values, and then talk about the properties of ai systems of individual values and strengthen their own system of values and values of everything worth in society. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. I thank you for your warning. I think these are well-intentioned proposals that should certainly be included in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30762	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30763	When you talk in Article 3 about the objectives of education and education, in point 5), where we are asking it to be a development of awareness in state and national belongings, I think we are going to hand in hand to all those who feel their national belonging, and that is also belonging to national minorities. We cannot now make Hungary's national minority through education just as they belong to the state of Serbia, as they belong and as they are to be cherished, but they must be allowed to feel their national membership to the Hungarian people. It's perfectly normal, and I'm just surprised that this proposal came from your side. Point 6) tells us precisely in favour of the fact that this is coming from the Council of Europe. They're only interested in European integration, and we think that's where it's supposed to be: "general" or some other more adapted notion that would suggest that we're free, that we connect with all citizens... (Milka Marinkovic: With Bin Laden. )......................................................................................................... And with Bin Laden to connect, why not, who knows. Is this perhaps for a warning, as it was just before for Mr. Janjic? It's not? Thank you very much. Points 10, 11) and 12) are a little intertwined, and the speech is the same. In the amendment itself, we ask that point 11 be deleted, not because we consider it unnecessary, but because we think it is already contained in point 12. If we say, "The development and care of friendship and friendship, the adoption of the value of living together and the promotion of individual responsibility", then what is at point 11) is contained in it or vice versa. All of this is just a matter of not falling into the content of all this, but of accepting something that someone has imposed on us by some norms and rules from those of the Council of Europe dictate our obligation to adopt a new system of education, without thinking what certain provisions actually mean here. I believe that in our education system some reforms and some changes need to be made, but these changes don't have to go up. They'd only make sense if they went to make it better.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30764	The word has the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30765	We didn't put the Eurp connection on because the shirt is closer than the shirt. That's not the reason. The reason has been mentioned many times here. There is no need to insist on it, but we said - there is a European educational tradition and a European educational culture that is much different at the level of primary and secondary education from the United States and is better. That's why it's said here, because we are, first of all, part of Europe. As for erasing point 11), if we were to delete something, we would rather delete the next one and leave 11). Since it doesn't matter to you, and we can't accept the amendment in part, we have accepted the amendment of Bora Stanimirovic, or his parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30766	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) Article 3. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Zarko Obradovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Prosecutors adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. To Article 3. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stankovic. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? Please, MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30767	On Article 3, as we can see, there are a lot of amendments from all the parliamentary groups, and yesterday there were discussions about him in the principle debate. I think the colleague read the whole article, highlighting it as an example of well-formed goals of education and education. Mr. Simonovic put some remarks on the languages, but also on the content levels of this part of the text. Article 3 defines the objectives of education and education. That's how many there are, you'd say a girl-warrant, normal member. Our general impression about this member is that the Ministry firstly highlighted intellectual abilities and the development of consciousness and that it partially ignored the coherent development of all abilities, for example, in the ability of the child to include both imaginations and intuitions. It's also part of some potential that contains a child, a team before we have both art schools and schools that need to develop the skills of students in harmony. So not to favor one's ability at the expense of another. We've made sure that Article 5 is more precise than it is here and to mention, let's say, that it could be among the goals of education and that morals and character are being brought up. There's no mention of character here. It's important that the school raises the character of a man. There's no mention of them developing work discipline. There's no mention of the awareness of civic duties. All that's mentioned is the awareness of rights. This is because it seems to me that the Ministry is essentially in favour of a post-modernist concept of culture and ideology. The proof of that is, let's just say, that there's no mention of the word "true" anywhere, not as a science category, not as a "moral" category. In postmodern ideology there is no truth, there is ethical and moral relivitism and there is only what is called dictatorship or dictatorship tolerance. Tolerance is the supreme dogma everyone must submit to, and it is imposed as contrary to its essence in one dictatorial way. In attitude 5, we think it's an inaccurate formulation, because it can't stand to develop consciousness from tradition and culture. There's no tradition and no culture, there's more traditions of more cultures. We have proposed to put on Serbian traditions and cultures and to put on an entanglement as well as traditions and cultures, as well as national minorities. This way we have an inaccurately formulated member. What traditions, what cultures? Let's just say postmodern. If we say Serbian cultures, in all its segments and layers and cultures and traditions of national minorities, because national minorities do not have one tradition and culture, but each one.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30768	A representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Mr Nenad Lemajic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30769	During the talks on the proposal for this law on the basis of the education and education system, the ministry has repeatedly declared that it wants to preserve what our educational traditions are and at all our traditional and national values. That's just fine, 'cause the way to Europe can't go without what we own. Europe is an expensive nation. These nations devour themselves, create a certain interaction, but with all that they bring in what is their tradition. That principled position of the Ministry is certainly good. What we have seen, at least in these basic provisions, which should in some way express the spirit of the law, is not best expressed. If we want to achieve a ballast between the trend of European unification and what is ours, which is national, that should be said in some ways through these basic provisions. After all, Serbia is a nation state. Serbia is a state of exceptional culture, an exceptional national wealth. There's no reason not to express it through these basic provisions. For these reasons, we have made an amendment to this article. We think it's better to express what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30770	Minister Gašo Knezevic called in his words.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30771	The amendment of the group of MPs, Lemajic and others, was problematic to us over two things. The first refers to the third-point formulation, which reads as "the question of morality and character". The problem is how character can be raised, and that may be the farthest of doctoral thesis, but it can't be in the legal text. A little funny to say, it reminds me of a flight over the coward's nest, because it can be electrocuted to form character. Another problem with the termological nature is the awareness of the tasks of life. What does that mean? So it was a context dam for us to adopt. We tried best to define, but we know it's possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30772	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? The 4th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Pal Shandor. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? (Gako Knezevic, from the post: This is a free compulsory education. Mr. Pal Shandor didn't see it planned elsewhere, and that's why he asked for it. ) Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakic. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30774	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment asking for a new fourth position to be added after the third position, which reads: "Medium education in state schools is free of charge". The present position 4 would have become attitude 5. Higher education has become inaccessible to most high school graduates. The enormous prices of scholarships, textbooks, accessories and other things necessary for the study process contribute to the creation of a single authorised layer, a layer of the richest to which study will be available. The European-oriented DOS government has done everything possible to leave the majority of the Serbian working age without a job or hope for the future. By introducing high-school scholarships, their children are left without a future. She will be sentenced to life without education, to a life of free employment. The Serbian Radical Party advocates free secondary education in state schools. The best students of these schools would become high school students, and as they successfully studied, they would be educated on state spending. In this way, schooling valuable, smart, and capable young people would be possible regardless of the material status of their parents. I therefore submit an amendment to Article 4 on behalf of the SRS. A bill on the foundation of a system of education and education in which I ask for secondary education in public schools to be free of charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30775	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30776	Although a member of 84 with a nickname is entitled to free education, it is regulated. In view of the basic provisions, it is in Article 4 instead. Therefore, it does not hurt the head of the minister to adopt this amendment, because it is a conceptual normative place here where education and education rights are spoken of. All available in the same way, they're all equal. In Article 2(2), the basic obligation is also free of charge, including persons with disabilities in development and adults and persons with special abilities, with special needs in accordance with this law and then what is in the 84th should also be an integral part of Article 4. So, just because it's the basic provisions of the system, and not because I see it later in article 84, it stands in a way that is not quite adequate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30777	There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. The 4th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there a word application for this amendment? The word is by MP Vladimir Garcevic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30778	In this part of the text, we felt that secondary education was also needed. Yes, the minister says it's in article 84, but you're counting basic education there again. If this is the basic part, I don't think he bothered, and there was no reason to be a primary and secondary education, and that's where it's regulated in that text, and this is one of the basic texts. When a man reads and comes along, then he watches this, he won't go to Article 74.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30779	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) On Article 5 of the amendment with the correction, the MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic together submitted. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. You've spoken on this amendment as well. Is anyone else applying for a word under this amendment to Article 5? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pal Shandor. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15.55]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum, or to continue the session. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We can continue the discussion in detail. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The Committee on Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30781	Madam Chairman, turn off your time. First you get me water, that's what I asked for last time. Call the service to provide conditions for the speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30782	Here, you've got three minutes and please use it. Where does it say I have to get you a glass of water? There was a break, you could drink water, and another practice showed you couldn't even handle a glass of water. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30783	Order water and dot. Like all bill proposals, so this law is exclusively anti-Serb, and you think it's European. You're looking... Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: You are Bulgarian, what do you care? I'm asking you to get the fifth-class lady, since she insulted me on a national basis, away from the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30784	Here's your colleague throwing, uninterrupted, on the one hand and on the other hand, and you're the one who often throws out of place. Please use the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30785	What short comes into the world, no one can fix. As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I would like to propose to the minister, as I see that as did the past law you adopted on Friday, with 96 MPs and 128 cards, forging the vote, which was attended by Prof. Rakojevic, who voted with two cards all the time, MP Kadić...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30786	I'm asking you to get back on the subject. You received a word after the amendment to Article 6. It's a bill of law you've passed. I'm warning you one last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30787	You read the law and you'll see why I'm saying this. Because Article 6 provides for an auxiliary teacher and another person. What other face, what kind of assistant teacher? That it won't happen, like in those workshops, those instructors of yours, who are our children in those workshops of yours, and I'm going to quote what's going on in those whoreshops where you organized those workshops, what Mr. Minister Gašo Knezevic said about it. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. On the question of journalists, why didn't the kids at the camp bring... (President: I warn you of the time allowed and the topic of the agenda. You took half a minute from me and I'll finish this sentence. On the question of journalists -- why didn't the children at the camp bring the ball instead of bras, the minister replied that there were both balls and bras in the camp. Just because of this sentence, you should have left this country, not the function you're taking.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30788	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? Here you go. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the old-school rule is, if you want to take over, take over the school. Here, in Article 6, where we are quoted who conducts educational-experienced work, teachers, educators, professional associates and assistant teachers and other persons appear. I can interpret this other person within the entire law, that it applies to psychological teaching, but assistant teachers don't appear anywhere anymore, further into the law, and there's no qualification, so we don't know what this is about. Whether it's some university teaching staff, whether it's those who in various schools should educate our children by the programs Soros brings to our country, and not just ours. For example, we have Russia that before us experienced everything we now experience in education. A Russian minister of education, Eduard Dniprov, said early 1990s that the goal of school reform is to change social mentality through school. This is what we heard from Minister Gaša Knezevic today, in the light of our discussions. As a result, sectarian textbooks have penetrated many schools, such as the Munovian "My World and Me". The number of native language classes has been reduced, and in history, where this national cultural identity should be particularly cherished, history is based on hatred for its own people, so Russia's history is presented as a history of a primitive, non-democratic society, which by no means compares to the developed and beautiful West. We're afraid that's the way it's going to be with us, because this law absolutely doesn't give us the opportunity to see how these individual items will look, nor can we trust those programs that make them. We are right, I think, all of us MPs, and we read in the press and educational workers, very skeptical of the bill, and it would be good for the minister here to explain to us who he is and what an assistant teacher is, what his role is and what qualifications he should have in the education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30790	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30791	Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, have given itself the right to education to take away the elementary things that are known throughout the world, which is that as far as wages and certain other obligations are concerned, they regulate it by collective agreement. I am with my associates, we have proposed that the text reads: "employees in the institution exercise the rights, obligations and responsibilities in accordance with this law, the Labour Act and the collective contract". The minister and the Serbian government have not accepted, as at any cost they do not want to tear out education from state institutions. Therefore, this concept needs to be changed. The education of the sea, needs and is everywhere in Europe, and we constantly call on that and this part is regulated by a collective agreement. So no one contests what part of what we said we're not going to be a collective contract, and this is about the rights of employees who realize the educational process and this educational process when it comes to the realization of education and education, the second part is about the Labour and Labour Act and the third part, what they should have, and these are collective agreements. I think we should put education back where it's supposed to be, and that should be returned to collective bargaining as the largest activity in solving our social problems, legal problems, etc. I think in this part, only if the government is going to, if it wants to decentralisation, then get the collective contracts back. If we don't want to decentralisedly leave it to the government as a state institution, without the right of workers to influence, and as far as I know, the minister is negotiating, and I don't think there's any reason why collective agreements shouldn't be found in this part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30792	The word has a minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30793	This is a concept of application of certain laws and therefore a misunderstanding on the relation of the SPS and the ministry, i.e. the government, this time. I didn't want to cause these reactions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30794	The Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30795	The Constitution and the system solution give rise to the application of the Law on Public Services to ministries and schools, and hence the application of the Law on Labour in State Authorities. Therefore, in order to apply an individual collective agreement, and this is a tendency to do so, it is necessary to amend the Law on Public Services, where the initiative is not mine. Whoever suggests it can't be the Ministry of Education. I want to tell you that the system solution is such that it leads to the application of the Law on Labour in State Authorities, and you know it well. It therefore eliminates this possibility for individual collective agreements. The border collective agreement we're negotiating and we'll close with the union. That's what's said and that's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30796	National MP Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30797	On the occasion of this amendment, i.e. the analogy of the decision of the Legislative Committee of the Assembly, I must draw attention to this and point to the errors of the Legislative Committee. Procedural or not, they can be interpreted as essential mistakes. So now it is not about the government's decision, or the minister representing the government's views and defending the law against this home, because in both cases, both cases are amendments to Article 2 of point 7 of the same parliamentary group and this amendment to Article 6 which is with correction and reads as follows: "Employees in the institution exercise the rights, obligations and responsibilities in accordance with this law, the Labour Act and the collective contract". Namely, what's the mistake? The Legislative Committee has said of the previous amendment that it is not legally possible, where the same syntagma collective agreement, labour law, etc. is quoted. For this amendment, he said it was legal. In this case, it did not dispute the legal possibility and did not state in this case that the application of the amendment is not legally possible. There's a confusion. The Legislative Committee must draw attention to itself, and then to others, whether from the point of view of legality the text of the amendment is acceptable or from the point of view of the basic concept of the law. If the applicants of the amendments agreed at each point with the basic concept of law and the text of individual members, they would not have submitted the amendments. Since the applicants of the amendments disagree with each member of the law and some of its individual provisions, they therefore submit amendments. You won't be able to pull this off, of course. Therefore, the Legislative Committees shall agree whether the amendment is legally possible or not, and in the same text. I will also apply the analogy to the latter amendments that regulate the same area, which are collective agreements. One more thing, it's not in the amendment that it's about individual collective agreements, it's just collective agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30798	There are no more entries for the word after this amendment. The 7th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Pal Shandor. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30799	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, as far as I can tell, you're inclined to accept this amendment to article 7 around minority languages, but you have to say that after a microphone, so people know how to vote. You're going to allow me to point out one more picnic over this amendment and convince you that you have to accept this amendment in order to save the honor of the government. On behalf of the Government, the signatory, i.e. the law, was proposed by the National MP and Deputy Prime Minister Joseph Kasa, as a member of the minority and as president of a minority party, whose programme is to fight for education in the native language, please, from primary school to university. I'm sorry he's not here right now. He was here two seconds ago. Now you're gonna say he signed the law and didn't watch. But what he signs if he doesn't watch. He didn't read it? He was a government law, wasn't he familiar? Well, please, these are all things that don't amnesty, and they're important for this. Mr. Kasa's party and he himself runs a double or triple policy. According to Serbian public opinion, he says we're nice, and now we're going to sign it for you, maybe even someone tricked him into signing it on behalf of the government. In the Duke's Talambasa, the blow -- we don't give, we're for, I don't know, the right minority, for this, for what, and when he goes to Hungary, he says third things. So this is Please, I know it best because I'm following what he's doing, I'm not very much in charge of it, but that's how it is. [[Laughter]] Therefore, if he as a member of the party, the president, can sign what I believe to have been accidental by the ministry and that those who simply saw that law, it means that he does not do to his voters the job they have chosen him for and for whom they have authorized him and he does not work properly, and there must be some other people who will correct it and watch, control it etc. Therefore, I would advise him not to sign these laws the second time and not to deceive the Assembly and not to put it in the process, and all the contrary to his party's declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30800	Minister of Education Mr. Gašo Knezevic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30801	Regardless of this persuasion that didn't serve to convince us, since we've been convinced from the beginning, I accept this amendment on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30802	I find that a representative of the government has accepted the amendment to Article 7 submitted by MP Pal Shanor. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vera Markovic. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's Messenger, Vera Markovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30803	Thank you. This amendment is very simple. I suggest that in the environments where there are more than 5% of national minorities in relation to the total population that a university decision by local authorities can introduce the language of a national minority into a primary school in the same way as a foreign language. So to learn the language of a national minority as a literary variant of that language, not to learn to hear, as was the case so far. The benefits of knowing the language of the national minority are great, especially in the border areas, because it opens up a wider possibility of further education, cross-border co-operation, the opening of a business that implies contacts across the border. Among other things, we are bound by the European Convention on Education, which contains one such provision, so that we will still implement such a provision in the application of the law and there better be one such provision. Also, the Law on National Minorities, which was adopted by the Federal Assembly, which has now been transposed into the legislation of the Serbia-Montenegro community, thus provides for one such possibility in education. I look closely at Mr. Secretary and expect him to accept one of these provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30804	Thank you. The word has been made by the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30805	The answer to this request is this - since Mrs Markovic pointed out she probably knows herself that Rasim's law regulates it, and he has an application. Therefore, it is already legally regulated. On the other hand, the school program, as a program that leaves the local program a certain percentage of self-coloredness with the locality, could in all local environments predict this possibility. That's why we felt it was no place to regulate the issue in this law. Otherwise, as a ministry, we have nothing against such a solution, of course, but we don't think it's the place to regulate it by law, but the school program has opened up that possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30806	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30807	I really don't know which one is Rasimov and which is Sorosev, which is Gashi's law, we have here a law that has been delivered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I have to comment in the context of this amendment by a colleague who spoke before me and Mr. Sandor, that we have turned a little thing upside down here. Article 7 which speaks of educational and probational work being achieved in Serbian, if Mr. Shandor's amendment is accepted, then that position 3 is contradictory to attitude 1. I think that we are all here for teaching in the state schools in Serbian and so far and from now on, there should be a possibility for national minorities, and there is a possibility of making it known to parents that they want their children to study in their native language. But by accepting Mr. Shandor's amendment, we have a reverse situation. They are forced to learn in that language, though they may not want to. Please, we don't have to get over this at all. I am sorry that Mr. Shandor is not here, but the amendment clearly reads – for members of the national minority educational-experienced work is achieved in the native language, imperialally, please, extremely it can be achieved in Serbian. It doesn't matter at all how this legal norm will look and I don't think this goes in favour of either members of national minorities or the state of Serbia, but it is up to the Ministry and the Government to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30808	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30809	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7. The draft law on the foundations of the education and education system, which reads as follows: "Article 7 paragraph 1 replaces the point with a comma and adds the words "with the mandatory use of a Cyrillic letter"; the words "in accordance with a special law" are replaced by the words "on his request"; Article 3 is deleted. "Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that this crucial bill is also another condition for bringing Europe closer. The continued education of all inhabitants is one of the fundamental interests of modern society that cannot be satisfied without the crucial role of the state in the educational sphere. The State, above all, prescribes a level of compulsory education and prescribes conditions of education at optional levels, then curricula and software content within the basic system, and provides material and personnel conditions for the functioning of educational and educational institutions in the public sector. In conducting an education policy, it usually seeks to strike a balance between traditional flows and modern trends, national specificities and universal values. In Article 7(1) of the amendment, I request the mandatory use of the Cyrillic letter. With this amendment, I want to preserve the national identity and the state of Serbia. With this bill, the proposer wants to destroy what is the most sacred letter. You probably got a warrant from your employers to use another method, and by education, destroy this country. Instead of seeing what actually doesn't work and doesn't work in the previous school system, you built a system that will function in the economy, because the current programs are reportedly obsolete, rigid and are too particular facts with no transverse value, i.e. that the system is centralized. I come from the economy and I have to say that in Europe we were once known for our high-quality CV professions, and today, if our economy worked as once, we wouldn't have these master profiles. I'm afraid this isn't some kind of government ujdura yet because it wants to move the working cycle, i.e. the reduction of pension-inhabited beneficiaries. In Article 7(2), educational and experimental work may also be carried out in a foreign language, in accordance with a specific law, shall be replaced at its request. Parents who need to educate their children abroad can do so as they do so so far. Ladies and gentlemen, the open dilemma facing many countries is finding the optimal direction of the public and private sector in total education. The countries in which the private sector has been developed for decades and centuries have acquired incomparably better quality personnel, while countries where the education system has been under state monopoly - the opening of private schools without adequate teaching staff and equipment, have been led to the collapse of human resources education. The catastrophic consequences of regular politicisation and ideological indoctrination of the educational process, as well as manipulation of students and students for political purposes, as it was done on 5 October 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30810	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30811	Article 7 regulates the use of language. In the position of the 1st member, we agree to keep it this way, that educationally trained work is done in Serbian, but in order to cultivate a Cyrillic letter that is significantly suppressed in use, we thought that it really should be potential in this law, first of all, that the Cyrillic letter is used as mandatory in our schools. You know, in a Serbia like this, in the middle of Belgrade, you have a professor who will give you a concise explanation -- you Serbs say coffee, and we say coffee. So, it's not brown, it's canch. My daughter came from a class where the professor explained the concept to her concavely. You know, we need to take care of the spirit of the Serbian language and of the Cyrillic letter. I don't dispute Serbian. Literature and Serbian language end here, students and non-Serb citizens, but must adopt the Serbian literary language if they think to hand it over as a profession. Then I can't have my child explain one notion in this way, which then spreads something else that you want to protect, supposedly, by this law. You Serbs say it like this, and we don't know who you are, you say it like this. Secondly, Article 2: "For members of the national minority, educational-experienced work is achieved in the native language, in accordance with the special law". The special law says, so far, but by adopting this amendment to Mr. Shandore, it will be differently reglazed, "if they want it," if they declare that they want to attend the teaching in their native language. Now there's going to be a reverse situation. "The educational-experienced work can also be carried out in a foreign language, in accordance with a special law." Minister, I don't know what special law that is. This law regulates everything on the education system. You're probably referring to the establishment of schools by natural or legal persons from abroad. (Gaso Knezevic: Law on primary and secondary schools. And that law can't be regulated differently than this law. (Gasho Knezevic: It is already regulated. ( b) How is it regulated? There is no place for this provision in this law. Educational and educational work for characters who use sign language, that's fine, and he had to find a place here and should be enabled. You need to find funds to start schools like this. That's what I stand for, as well as those who are disabled in any way. It seems to me that we are really going over these basic provisions of the law that will be further reflected in the other members of the law. Minister, it's not a good thing we didn't get a written explanation that changes and why you accept and why you refuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30812	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Bora Stanimirovic, authorised representative of the parliamentary SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30813	He would not repeat what has already been said, but this attitude when it comes to language, or letter, creates confusion in Article 7(1). Are we going to say that both letters are equal, Cyrillic and Latin, but for the record, because you have a practice that some teachers fill the journals with Latin, others with Cyrillic. In our constitution, it's already clear. It's now in the phase of making a new constitution. How he'll solve it, we don't know. Whether we're waiting for the constitution to settle it or not, but it would be better for educational workers, because it happens that a student fills a student's book with a Cyrillic letter, a class elder returns, or vice versa. Therefore, let us decide which letter will be official in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30814	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30815	As basic as it is, the school law cannot regulate the question of language and letters. There is a Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, which is proposed by the Ministry of Culture. So, if you want to introduce Cyrillic as the only letter, you know the path. You can't ask through this law to regulate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30816	No more applications under this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30817	Ladies and gentlemen, in the principle debate, I finished my presentation by explaining how motivated the students are, better said, demoted for teaching, or school, but I did not say how motivated teachers are to work in school. For these two and a half years, as far as DOS is ruling in Serbia, nothing has been done on the material plan, on the material existence of teachers. (Gasho Knezevic: Seven times has been increased. Minister, come out later and tell me. No matter how many times the salary has been increased, the teacher's salary in high school or elementary school is equal to the average salary in Serbia. It's quite enough to assess the material position of teachers. In this law, perhaps for the first time in the history of education, an automatic repeat of students has been abolished. So, he will no longer be in June following the release of the assessment of automatic repetition, or, no matter how many of the student grades he has had, he will have a chance to go to the correctional exam and to correct those assessments within the June or August deadline, as this law predicted. Perhaps this member, to be a bit cynical, would answer to those who work in education, because we now have a very painful situation, that students who have 8-9 weak grades at the mid-term come to two weak grades in June. So, it's all kind of fixed and fixed, and when the evaluation comes, then they do all kinds of relationships. First of all, the students say in class, Professor, what's it cost you to give a two. If that doesn't work out, then parents, friends or other relationships say -- how much does a two cost, etc. So, it all comes down to the fact that most students go by without basic knowledge, which the minister today said well, that the level of knowledge that students carry is extremely low. I think it's the law on high school and it's been said that correctional exams are in front of the board, but from the experience I've had working at school for 15 years, all those commissions are formal. There should be something to be done on this plan, so that at least these commissions are no longer formal, that commissions, especially in this situation, are attended by an educational inspector, i.e. an adviser, as defined by this law, who will be present to ensure the regularity of these exams, in order to take some knowledge to the students, however, so as not to leave schools without elementary knowledge. Given that time expires, as regards this Article 10, on which I have submitted the amendment, points 2) and (3) of the first position are deleted, i.e. Article 10, the advice is provided. We stand on the view that there are too many three councils and seven centres, that this is a little more what they achieve and material resources for this budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that enough is one educational advice unique as an advisory body. There is a ministry, there are departments of the ministry in all the district centers. So we don't see the purpose of remaining three tips that will have certain material costs. (President: Time. ) But seven centres are still too much for the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30818	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30819	The amendment that we have submitted to Article 10 has its own reasons, first of all in rationalising the resources needed to work on these councils and later in the centres that we will talk about later, the conscious fact that the budget is couing with funds, that there is not enough money. And we found the argument in your statement where you say that the means to implement this law are current expenditure and the work of the council, other than the funds for the salary, whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia for this period from 1 September to 31 December of this year are 25 million. It's 29.5 million for this last quarter, for various licenses 31, 69 million, and 30 for secondary education. When I put it all together, I said it was about 350 million dinars. It's huge money plus the 280 million that you have on the contract of the Ministry of Education, for special services, so when you already have those 250 for various -- various special services, to consult and pay both experts and researchers, what do you need these three tips, when all this can do is one educational advice. Maybe he shouldn't have 20, let him have 30 members, but it can include both vocational education and primary and secondary education, and the one that needs to calm you down is absolutely superfluous, and I think you're being very irrational in this sense. This is what citizens pay for. Collect the 350 million and these 250 you have to publish these publications that serve no one. Look what the money is. Now you've taken one percent of your salary to educators, and you've brought out a huge revolt. Not because it means anything to Serbia's budget, or because it means a lot to them. I read in the paper and I hear from educators, 1% are less than their salaries, and they are dissatisfied and revolted with the attitude of educators, and you throw yourself at the money. Improve the position of educators. You'll have better education, you'll have better results, and you won't have those 17.4% of students who have to take extraordinary lessons, pay their parents 400, 500, 600 dinars for two hours to achieve what they can't achieve at school. They can't achieve it because our programs are not good, and nothing else. There are very rare cases in the education that we have a professor. I've come across those in my long experience, mostly as a student, and then as mothers with three children, that call doesn't end out of love and enthusiasm. It's a human profession. Not everyone can do that profession, and we should figure out what the problem is. They're not a problem for our educators. These are rare cases where it is necessary to react in a disciplinary manner, as it has been disciplined so far and now in this law. But let those programs be made by someone we can call. We ministers can call you. (President: Time. ) The Ministry, the Government, they are responsible for these programs. We can't call these committees. We can't change them, we can't influence them. You just transferred a ball to them, and we can only pray to God that some smart people come here, and as far as I can see, those who will take care of the interests of our children and our country will not come.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30820	The Minister of Education called for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30821	Subtracting 1%, it's about the contributions that were voted in this assembly, and then in the calculation of the contributions, it turns out that there's a slightly reduced salary of 250 dinars. The Ministry of Education intervened immediately. It changed the way the reckonings, and all the educators will get full pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30822	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Đura Lazic and Sreten Mitrovica together with the correction, Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30823	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, my colleague Mitrovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 of the proposed law. With this amendment, we propose to delete item 3 in Article 10 behind item 1. Why is that? And in the principle debate yesterday, I mentioned the unnecessarily existence of this member. Now I'd like to make a more detailed statement about my claim. Starting with the responsibility of the council for the alignment of the views on education provided for in Article 17. The proposal for this law is unnecessary to form this advice because its competences can also be realised within the framework of the Expert Education Council. I would just like to quote the text of item 3) of item 1, which reads: "The Council for Harmonising Views in Education, for harmonising attitudes of republican importance". Article 16 states that this council should, for the sake of agreement, have 20 members. Of course, with the possibility of forming certain commissions, certain working bodies, and so on. I think that in this way the number of administrative people is unnecessarily increasing, and all these tasks, which are specified in Article 17, relating to this advice, can be fully competent to carry out advice on vocational education. This is where you think about secondary education and basics and things like that. One of my colleagues before me said that in schools we need changes in the program to free children of the excess content that burdens them, not to burden the system of education with new authorities, which will also burden the budget. If this advice is to be carried out, to bring attitudes into line in education of republican importance, then Mr. Minister, you are taking away the section of the ministry's jurisdiction. The Ministry of Education is that it takes care of the views of republican importance. Why give it to some new advice? I think it's unnecessary and there's a lot of reason to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30824	People's MP Bora Stanimirovic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, then MP Vladimir Garcevic, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party's parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30825	A colleague, Đura Lazic, fully argued the reasons for, i.e. against the formation of this third council. The truth of will, must be acknowledged, we had earlier educational advice, this educational advice, abolished it normally in 1992, he chose differently, it's true that without the educational advice he couldn't operate education, not only basic and middle, but the whole system, but I think it's too much, I've been thinking about forming one, because it's hard, given the description of jobs to do so that one is formed for now, maybe later on. This third can be completely eliminated, so that nothing is lost, that some jobs are shared between these councils that are present. I'm saying this precisely because of the fact that if we form teams, if we form teams that do it, we've calculated today that it takes about $170 million a year to get this job done. If we know what the material position of education is, if we can single out from one to three percent of all incomes with education, then it's really too much to say advice, so much sooner, not talking about centers, we'll talk about them later, something more concrete, and we'll suggest that list. Secondly, here some other costs are increasing, what many don't understand. If it were just those three tips and seven centers, it could be more. This law, this reform requires a lot more money than we think. I just said in a joke a little while ago that toys are needed, but we want a new teacher, we want a new classroom, with the complete doactic teaching tools that are necessary for that. If we're preparing students to play for the first two years, it's now figurative, they have a commitment, it's not exactly a game, but we have to create conditions that they have sports courts, that they have pools, courts for table tennis, for tennis, for everything else, and that's that. Please, our teachers have such conditions from first to fourth grade to teach physical education in the middle of the summer, i.e. spring or autumn in the classroom, and what class is this? Therefore, there are no conditions for that to happen. So we suggest that only partially accept what is necessary. We are particularly bothered that this proposal for reform is incomplete. Examples work, we don't know what's gonna happen after first grade, we have some first general principles. After first grade, meaning what's gonna happen after first grade...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30826	I'm warning you of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30827	.... The second grade, but we don't know what objects they are, how many objects they're going to be, how many programs they're going to be after, how much they're going to cost to the community. So that's exactly why it's not being understood, so one center less or less, it's not one center, but there's other financial obligations, and I think the minister can easily pull this one out, or suggest that we end this and solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30828	The word is made by MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30829	Here, in our proposal for an amendment, it is required that the advice under number 3 be deleted. The basic intensities are, and if they're defined in education as much as one part of the program should be, what they should agree on. On the other hand, I resent the government of Serbia, i.e. the ministry and the minister, why it did not define the composition of the council, both first and second. The material doesn't say, if you don't count on what you wrote to be top-notch, which we can trust. The proportion, how many unions will be represented in this council number two, I'm talking about this council, it's professional, how many unions will be represented, how many structures, you can't see anywhere, if the chamber etc. We can always believe the word of honor in this law. The honorable word gives no right to any of us, because circumstances change from today to tomorrow, and when it's written, it's still an obligation for everyone to define their obligations. In the first council, it could be found here which is the structure. You know, every government, no matter who it is, will propose from a circle of its acquaintances, friends, like-mindeds, etc. Minister, I know you'll say it's not like that, but practice shows and now practice shows. So, you should have said -- that the Academy of So many Representatives, the Orthodox Church will give so many representatives, the ministries of various will give so many representatives, the Ministry of Education so many representatives, the chambers so much or certain professional associations, and you will make one piece of advice where everyone will delegate what he had best. This is how the Serbian government is likely to carry out consultations and make advice, and one and the other, according to his intent that does not guarantee the overall consistency of Serbia's political scene, I do not guarantee. The story of depoliticization, the story of it, you know, on the ground it doesn't show, it hasn't shown before. To be more realistic, you keep doing what it is, so don't talk about us doing it, depoliticalizing school when there are no concrete procedures to convince us. 30 people agreeing that you didn't accept the intensities, I'm going to go back to the Slovenian law, where he says - if any disagreement arises, a commission is formed for that, that part of the disagreement she resolves. Why 30 people?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30830	I'm warning you of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30831	.... Which means, I think with two tips, with everything that's here to accept our point of view, it doesn't interfere with the system, because there are other bodies that can solve these problems with these two tips.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30832	The Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30833	Let's get this straight about two tips, he's not going to settle these two tips, he's coordinating the views of other interested people who aren't members of these councils, and those other interested are all listed here. It's like the Republic, the province, the church, the cities, etc. One more thing to tell you, don't tell me about the savings when this advice actually doesn't cost anything. I didn't predict anything, read, this advice doesn't cost anything, this third one doesn't, these first two do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30834	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30835	I'm really sorry about the three minutes I have left to defend the SRS amendment, I'm not able to ask you any questions I'd normally like to ask you. It is not clear from your explanation who will provide the funds for the salaries of these councils. When I say - councils, I mean commissions, expert teams and working bodies that they will establish, which are provided for in Article 11. If it's not provided by the government and we know who provides the funds, then everything else will be much clearer to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30836	There is no more application for a word after this amendment. National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic together submitted the 10th amendment. The Committee on Education did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee deems the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30837	Article 10 is related to Article 18 basically. Namely, members 18. The ministry has decided to form certain expert centres, which will deal with research work in education. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes this is a very good idea for two reasons. First, the research work in education and in the education system is indeed muffled, almost abolished along with the institutions that carried it. Secondly, which, when the system is inoculated, and here we are talking about innovating the system, was about building a completely new education system, therefore, in such situations it is necessary to perform certain research work, to experiment, to examine certain areas, theoretically and practically verify them, and to produce certain results that would be an indication of how to form a strategy in the field of education. Article 10 provides for three advices, two of which would have the capacity to use these results coming from centres that are very concrete and empirically verifiable, positive results, to theoretically elaborate and based on these elaborates and unifications of the results, the Ministry offers certain proposals and suggestions, as these results are possible to operate in practice. We welcome this idea of the Ministry, and we have made our amendments to bring it to an end, not to obstruct your plan, but only to bring it to its peak. It is our idea that, apart from these two advices, which have a more consultative character, advice under points 2 and 3 that are not paid from the budget, which are some kind of amateur top professional body, to form a professional national council, which would also provide both the Ministry and these advices and all the centres, and have them as you have seen seven, give certain guidelines, how and what should be explored, plan a strategy for the development of the educational system and based on the feedback that would be obtained from the centre, then offer quality strategic documents to the Ministry. So it would be a national council to deal with and to be in charge of the educational development strategy in Serbia. It would be a good idea because then responsibility for a new system being designed, other than the Ministry, would be taken over by the Assembly who would have chosen this council, and that more people who might have possibly not, or not enough, could have been shown in preparing and making this law. I think that would be useful for reforming the system, but it would also be in a practical sense... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... very useful for the Ministry, because it would share responsibility for this very large civilization task along with the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30838	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Nenad Lemajic, an authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30839	The formation of these three councils, the educational advice on vocational education and advice on harmonising attitudes in education, is a good idea. What scares the DSS is about the fact that these bodies could have a formal character and that they would only practically serve as an alibi to the Ministry for certain educational moves. We wanted these amendments to Article 10 to give these bodies, first of all to the National Educational Council, as we suggested to be called, one fundamentally, much greater importance. We believe that responsibility for the pedagogical aspect of the reform must be borne by a body that is longer and more stable than the Ministry, which has broad support within the pedagogical profession and pedagogical organisations and institutions, a body that will be less subject to daily political pressures, which the Government is more susceptible to by the nature of its work. The complexity of the pedagogical aspect of education reform, which we must recognise, yet much more complex than I am in the legal aspect of this reform, leads us to give a much greater importance to the National Educational Council. Let us not forget that the pedagogical aspect, meaning, and the reform of textbooks, the reform of objectives, the outcome of teaching, in the extreme line of short-term and long-term training of teaching staff and many others, for these reasons we believe that at least one of these tips, means, the National Educational Council, should be formed as a professional body with much greater powers regarding the pedagogical aspect of reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30840	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30841	The problem with setting counsel and their jurisdiction is one problem. Another problem is in determining the way these tips are formed. That's what we're talking about. We are talking about what the Government, or the Ministry, has proposed, as appointing authority, which will make a final decision on the composition of the Council, the Government, and here it is proposed to be the Assembly and the initiative that it is in our proposal of the Ministry, and here the Education Committee. If a decision is made to be a Assembly, a division of responsibility is carried out on the one hand and it is good for the ministry. On the other hand, the whole mechanism is designed so that all of these organs need to be built up relatively quickly. If the Assembly is an organ that builds up, it can lead to a delay. Professor Garcevic, I guess he asked, or Bora, what comes after first grade. My answer was second grade. But, you see, first grade, there's only a special program for first grade that's going to be brought out of nowhere. Otherwise, all these tips need to be decided. So our time is our enemy. We have to catch time. In this situation, when we have both arguments for one and the other, I have one technical question now -- when this amendment is proposed, then the amendment promoter is, apart from changing the name of this first council, the national council, which I personally don't mind so it can be accepted, there's no reason not to be, he changed his name, I don't know whether he knows whether he's conscious or unconscious, and the other advice. Since the amendment can only be adopted or rejected, I don't know what to tell you. This second council is called a advice for vocational education, for pre-school, primary and secondary education. Well, you don't have professional education in preschool. Either way, we can't introduce vocational education for preschool and primary school. So he's unacceptable because I can't single out one piece. You understand, you're here in the Assembly all the time, I'm rarer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30842	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Bora Stanimirovic, authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30843	I thank the Minister for explaining to me that the second one comes after the first class. I didn't know. I skipped second grade because there was no power that year, so we didn't go. I want to say something else. I asked the question. Please, this isn't a complete program, this isn't a reform. This is a first-class proposal. We have general objects, so we say mathematics, Serbian language or language communication, and another subject, and then I don't know the other. I also asked the Ministry the Minister - what's next? Not if we're going to go to second, but why don't we get a full reform today, that we know what the first-to-niner program is going to be. People still don't know what to do after. What schools are two-year-olds, which are three-year-olds, which are four-year-olds. There are the biggest problems, not that after the first coming second grade. Furthermore, this advice forms a government. In Article 13, mostly the proposals for advice shall give, say, the Republic of two representatives, the province of two representatives, etc. It may practically happen that everyone is from the provinces, and only two from that other part of the Republic. In practice, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30844	The word is from MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30845	I have to, Minister. I don't know what this is about. If we want dignity and respect for people, yes, I wouldn't answer. I respect you, your persuasion, but really not for one moment, and when we work on the Education Committee, we fight for certain attitudes, no insults, no nothing. Don't put us in a situation, please as a man, if we want to respect each other. If we don't, then we'll go with the books, everyone. Then it's not the Parliament, it's not human, it's not moral.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30846	Right on line, Minister Gašo Knezevic. Wrong interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30847	I immediately apologize to Professor Garcevic, but I don't know what the problem is, how I insulted him. Simplely enough, I didn't say anything offensive to anyone. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30848	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Nebojsa Jovic. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30849	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, counterpart Nebojsa Jovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. Article 11 provides that the advice set out in Article 10 can form commissions, working bodies and expert teams to carry out their work. We have suggested that this member be deleted, for the simple reason that we think he is too high, because if we have three tips of which two have 29 members and one has 20 members, that's a sufficient number of professional people to be able to do their job in quality. If we take into account that there are seven centers besides the council, and that the work of councils and centres is largely intertwined, then we strongly suggested that article 11 should be deleted, that no commissions, expert teams and working bodies should be formed, for the simple reason that our people have long since said "a hundred grandmothers children of kilos", and someone said -- if you want something to fail, form commissions. So this whole job won't be in vain, we suggest that article 11 be deleted. I don't think that the Minister, or colleagues from the Civil League should have any fear, there will be a lot of jobs in seven centres and these three councils for all members of the Civil League, because I was lucky to see one material from 2001, where members of the Civil League, with all due respect, are proposing filtering in state bodies, or budgetary institutions, for the reason of stopping funding from other sources. Therefore, without commissions and working bodies, there will be seven centres in working units and in the educational council enough jobs, and I think that if the commissions, if they are formed within the council, then they should not be written in law, and if they are formed outside the council, I think it is a large material cost, because if you look at the projected funding of 390 million in three months, it is around 130 million per month and around 6,500 average education salaries. Let 50% of that go on materially, 3,000 salaries, that's quite enough to employ all those who need to be employed in these institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30850	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30851	I'll put it briefly, but if Mr. Sinisa Mitrovic can follow, which constantly shortens time. A group of experts, as you say, have calculated that the reduction of working time extends Parliament's work, and we will prove it to you. We have a good mathematician, so we'll prove it to you. I wouldn't go out five times if they'd let me talk for four minutes, and I have to talk twice in three minutes, and that's six minutes. This is what I'm really saying. Avoid it if you don't have to. This is a very important law, so important a law that it really doesn't need to be shortened. It's not in our best interest to make it up to you, where we're lucky to cut it short. This is what I wanted to mention, shortly before the minister said that the job of members of the council would not be paid, and here it is said that for the sake of considering issues from its jurisdiction, the advice from Article 10 of this law can be educated by commissions, expert teams and other working bodies. The act on the education of working bodies shall determine the tasks and tasks, composition and manner of their work. Who's gonna do it for free? It's not 1946. It's past the time of action, now it's all paid. We have members of the Constitutional Commission and see how much the Constitutional Commission's work is paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30852	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30853	The government accepts the amendment. So it wasn't necessary at all, we're going to meet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30854	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Vera Markovic. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Vera Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30855	This amendment is in some way a compromise between one way in which the proposal for an establishment of the Educational Council would be on the Committee on the Education of the Assembly and another way already provided for in this draft law. So this is a compromise proposal. According to this proposal, according to this amendment, the Serbian Government, or the resolution ministry, would propose a composition of the Educational Council, and it would be verified in this assembly. It is very important to strengthen the authority of the Educational Council, given what competences it has under this bill, especially in relation to the ministry. The second reason is that you get a lot on the transparency of the proposal and on the expert discussion of the composition and authority of the people who will be in it. I'm not looking at Mr. Secretary this time. Maybe I'll have better luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30856	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30857	It's a little strange, here goes the minister, but he may hear that he never mentioned a single amendment to the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group in the debate on amendments. We have submitted 53 amendments, so most of all the parliamentary groups. It is indicative that the minister accepts, with consultation with Mrs Kovac and others, only amendments to other parliamentary groups of opposition political parties. We would not be happy at all, nor would we faint if you would adopt our amendments and do not write amendments because you would adopt them after that, but to tell you that you have a disastrous bill and with this 53 Serbian Radical Party, it could be partially improved, and our concept, as you heard yesterday from Mrs Pop-Lazic's presentation, is quite different. We're coming again, Minister, to the question of the Educational Council. But this time on his composition. This is about the fact that we repeat practice and one of our bitter experiences when it comes to a variety of touch experts. If you say so, and we ask it with an amendment to delete, and especially this position 3, the president and members of the Educational Council are appointed from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of pre-school, basic, general, secondary and artistic education, as well as in the fields of science, art, sports, ecology, protection of human rights and standardisation, it is absolutely incomprehensible for us to formulate something like this in the law and that these potential staffs for educational advice are these numbered people. You could have put it in there in Serbia, some other associations, small animals and so forth, which I know what you couldn't order here. And, then, you want to convince us, you have failed to justify denying your colleague Pop-Lazic how, for example, the environmentalist Srdja Popovic, who you can hypothetically take to be a member of this council, or Sava Milosevic, your sports expert, or someone else or third, will not be paid for the function they perform, and you deny yourself, because, in the light of the necessary means to implement this law, you say that the current expenditures and work of advice, except by means of salaries, the founder of which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the period from 1 September to the end of this year, is 25.025,677 dinars. So it's just for one quarter. Ma'am, I'd like to ask you, first of all, you're not in the power of your face, you're not talking to me and you're not talking to me like a neighbor across the board. I am an MP and I explain the amendment of the parliamentary group. The minister has the same manners, so you tell him what you have, he can come out, and then you can talk. And as far as we're concerned, we're going to be at the end of this amendment debate, here I'm ending up criticizing the strongest, because we're opposed to every Americanization, we're against this evil called Soros. We stand for a healthy national society, not a sick and freakish society, as is the case with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30858	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30859	With this amendment, we ask that in Article 12, point 1: "six" be replaced by the word "four". We see no reason for these council representatives to be elected for six years, and for you to predict, in attitude 2, that in this first appointment, half of them will be for three years. We don't know what your goal is. The government will certainly change, and these members of the council can be changed, because the government is proposing them by changing the power itself, so that the second position is contradictory of the first position, not completes it, but leads us into a certain delusion and leaves some uncertainty, because we cannot understand the objective of such a conjecture attitude 2. When you say -- prominent experts, you know, what a prominent expert is, no one has a certificate of being a prominent expert. It's a matter of free belief of a particular group, but when you say, an expert in human rights protection, it's clearly unclear who you mean. There are people, of course, at the University of Belgrade who deal with human rights issues, who are engaged in constitutional law, if you think of them, then it would be normal for them to find themselves in one such advice, but if you think of others who are from different NGOs, such as the Center for Multiculturality of the Bridge, the Women's Centre from Užica, the constructive civil engagement of Parachin, Psychocod, Petnica Research Station, the Centre for Girls, the Center for Interactive Pedagogoggy, then Women in Black and the like, then we really fear who will be members of this council under this criterion, and therefore we thought that it might be wise to delete this attitude 3 completely, that the government will take it to their own soul - who, and by which criteria, we will foresee to be members of this council.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30860	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants? Please, the word is by MP Bora Stanimirovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30861	Our representative had the same amendment. The promoter isn't here, but I'll just explain this and I won't answer for another time for article 12. Here, you see, that's a lot to talk about and I wouldn't repeat what's been said. I would support what the Serbian Radical Party has given, and we have given an almost identical amendment. I think this is about practical reasons. The Ministry is only right here when we were some other country. That's okay, then. So there would be some continuity. But we don't have continuity, so we're making laws on discontinuity, so what continuity do you expect if a government goes down, a new government comes, so it's normal to appoint its members of the council. It's so clear, and don't let us have any illusions that it will be. It's a nice idea, but it's invaluable. There are so many parties with us, we don't have two parties that could do it, standing up with some European manners, but we have many, many parties and everyone is looking to set up their own people. So it would be more normal that, and besides, it's not the Constitutional Court so it's eight years old, but it's educational advice, so whoever can show something in four years, that's quite enough, means it shows what they can do. Continuity can only be maintained in the sense that the best people, the most capable people who will be responsible for the process, are chosen. That is why I would ask the minister to accept this amendment, because there is plenty of reason for him to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30862	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Milojevic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's Messenger, Natasha Milojevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30863	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. With this amendment, as well as amendments to Article 14 and Article 16, the SDP parliamentary group wants to regulate the participation of representatives of representative trade unions in the work of all the three councils foreseen by law. I'm not going to go out and give an interpretation on the other members of the 14th and 16th. I think this will be enough someday. If I'm not mistaken, and I haven't heard that said, I think the Minister at the parent committee's session has accepted the proposal when it comes to the participation of representatives of the representative unions in the other two councils. I don't think there's any reason not to, and when it comes to the Educational Council, where our amendment literally reads, "Three members of the Educational Council are appointed by the Government on the proposal of representative unions." Since the amendment is legally possible, although there are no representatives of the Legislative Committee here and, since there is analogy when it comes to the composition of two other councils, I think the Minister will accept this amendment on behalf of the Government. To remind you, representatives of representative unions have not only full rights but also some obligation to take part in the work of these councils, given the full list of competences and fields of action of these three councils. I said I'll save time and I won't interpret it for Articles 14 and 16, but I expect Minister Knezevic to accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30864	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Vladimir Garcevic, the authorised representative of the SPS group's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30865	Although, as you can see, political definition is different, but attitudes regarding the representation of educators should be unique. I expected other colleagues, regardless of the political definition, to show that, when it comes to the protection of fundamental rights and the interest of education as a profession, in the Assembly they show that they understand. As a party that looks at workers with a special view and education, we believe that the minister has reasons, regardless of the fact that this is a little more specific advice, to include three representatives. They will not hurt, they will find quality, so together with the others I support the attitude of Milojevic in that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30866	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30867	My colleague Milojevic had three proposals per three members. Two of us accepted as government, the Education Committee refused. This is what our dilemma was about, because we want a highly professional body. It's true that the unions in their composition have highly professional people, and we accept this as well. That's all we can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30868	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk and Nebojsa Jovic. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The authorized representative explained it. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic submitted. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30869	Given that one of the broader segments covers the first council, I would say that this advice is of one general importance, in general, in the education system, and that it would not mind that the Assembly appoints a proposal from the Serbian Government, because it gets one dimension and thus we also meet MPs, that we know who is in that council and, in the end of the day, to increase the level of responsibility of the council for the education and education process.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30870	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30871	I also tried to explain to my colleague Veri Markovic, this time and Professor Garčević - the government represented a concept, the government is ready for concessions. It's not a problem to make a concession. However, when amendments are made, then the Proposer must make sure that they are consistently implemented throughout the text. It was given here, as with Vera Markovic, also with Professor Garcevic, on Article 12, and a member of the 10th that preceded article 12. We have to reject Article 12.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30872	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulović, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic together submitted the title above the members and the 12th amendment. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30873	Our amendment to Article 12 passes from the amendment to Article 10, by making the amendment to Article 10 a technical failure that we will remove and submit. We propose that the National Educational Council, with all these powers that are provided and described in this law, elects the Assembly on a proposal from the Education Committee. It is a bit more complicated procedure because there are no criteria, no procedure for the Education Committee to propose to the Assembly members of that council. That's a little complicated. But, with much goodwill, the Education Committee would be able to do the job in a relatively short time. The second thing we suggested was that this council be professionalized. Namely, to be paid out of the budget, similar to how people are paid for the Broadcasting Council. It is necessary to be professionals because they will have very little work to do and it is necessary to be professionals, who will leave very important other jobs in order to commit themselves to this common optimist goal that would be set before them. Finally, we suggested that the National Educational Council be chaired, or that its president should act as Minister of Education. We would be pleased if Minister Knezevic understood our good will that we have installed in this amendment. We believe that this advice would be obtained not on competences, because it is competent both in the professional sense and in the competences that you have provided for it, but it would gain weight in the operational sense, if it were chaired by the minister of education. On the other hand, the minister of education would be much more independent of the government, and partly of the Assembly, if he were to chair one such body that would gather the trust of brains dealing with the education development strategy in Serbia. So, both on the one hand and on the other, it would be good, as far as the executive and legislative authorities are concerned, but most importantly, it would be good for the very educational system in Serbia and for its reformation. In the end, you know that we have the Ministry Act, but we don't have the Ministers' Law, and we all know that, and that's what people on the side say, our ministers don't have the necessary degree of autonomy. They are political hostages of one government and one assembly. The minister must have a certain degree of autonomy in the government, even in relation to the government and the Assembly and the Assembly. This is the degree of autonomy that he draws from his expertise and expertise and professional commitment that his society delegates to edit a system.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30874	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, MP Nenad Lemajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30875	It is a question of forming an educational council, or national educational council, on our proposal, that it may not matter to someone whether it is the Assembly or the Government, because it can always be said that one who has a government controls the majority of the congregation, or the appropriate bodies within the congregation. But we think this is a question that is above operational and executive. In what cases should the congregation form such bodies? Just when something above the daily policy, day-to-day operatives, something that is a long-term and has a major impact on the essential processes in the country, in this case, on the essential processes in education. In order to highlight this, and I think it should be pointed out in this case, the DSS considers it the best solution for the National Education Council to form a Assembly on a proposal from the relevant committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30876	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Vera Markovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Prosecutors adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Aleksic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic put together the title above members and Article 13 of the amendment. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment as possible. In the name of the applicant of the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30877	Our amendment to Article 13 is, in fact, the consequence of our amendment to Article 10. It refers to the National Educational Council and its competences. Instead of the word "enlightenment council", we suggest that it be "national educational advice". It continues in point 1), the text of the bill suggests a minister in charge of education affairs, and now goes on to add what it proposes. We say, instead he brings. Why? Because we wanted this concept, namely that the National Educational Council is a professional body that will deal with the education development strategy, which will be the most competitive decision-making of what is education and education and its development, and not the ministry, but that is why, in the principle of this National Educational Council, there is a Minister of Education, which was mentioned in the previous amendment, and that he would give authority and that he would in some way represent a link with the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30878	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment as possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 14 and has proposed that this member be deleted because it considers that Article 10(1) provides for enough advice for pre-school, primary and secondary education and education. We believe, and this is also the deputy head of the parliamentary group, MP Mrs Pop-Lazic explained and explained in more detail, and some other MPs said earlier that it would be too high to have working bodies educated, because it cost a lot of countries. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament for reasons of rationality and depoliticalization of education, we believe that this member should be deleted. The promoter made certain comments, saying earlier that around 300 experts were hired to draft this bill. Was it by any chance that these experts were repeaters or that they had repeaters in the house? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the Proposer could have used the textbooks of Makarenko, Jan Komenski and others, and we could certainly make a better proposal and suggest that it be adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments I have expected since the arrival of the DOS that there will be reforms in the field of education, in so much that a review of textbooks, subjects, their content will be made, that more attention will be paid to writing textbooks and scopes, and the content of the curriculum itself. That they would pay more attention to our citizens, because parents don't pay expensive lessons. That's what Mr. Secretary was talking about recently. I believe that in the area of reform, more attention should be paid to who textbook writers, content and the scope of materials that children learn in areas and levels, which could in any case be like education reform. I'm afraid that we're about to read in the history textbook that Karadjordje Petrovic, Gavrilo Princip, Zivojin Misic, Radomir Putnik, Stepa Stepanovic and others are not accidentally declared terrorists. I'm afraid of it so we won't get to it. (President: Time's up. But I expect that in history textbooks and other textbooks, we will study those values of national and preserve continuity and tradition, and therefore I suggest that this amendment be adopted, because it has quite enough reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30880	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30881	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30882	He's giving up the discussion. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Milojevic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment as possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else in the 14th Amendment of the National Parliament of Natasha Milojevic? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the Government, the Proposer accepted this amendment and the committees did not. The title above the member and Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment as possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15 relating to the responsibility of the Council for Professional Education, which is a logical landing of Article 10, which the Serbian Radical Party has indicated is against the councils that have no function, i.e. have a burden on the budget, above all, and at the same time the full ministry, i.e. the minister excludes it from responsibility, or indirectly, and in this way no one accounts for the National Assembly, or Parliament. For these reasons, we propose to delete both jurisdiction, both the title above the members and the whole member. Indeed, as far as this council is concerned, it is very symptomatic that some opposition MPs here spoke of the minister as affirmative, and even one who supports the opposition MP said that this law will be remembered by the children for the good, so he will call the minister "the uncle minister". I wouldn't say that this way the children will be drawn to the fact that they will remember the minister. I don't think he'll remember him, because I don't remember anything from my time except what my teachers taught me. The "dot dot dot, the head's done, the legs like a mouse, the Uncle Gliss's done." And I remember it the most. If we want to remember something, and at the same time we make it difficult for children because we have a good program and we have some law that's just a frame without a picture, then I think the minister can be remembered, but the bad one, because usually average is forgotten. They remember good things and they remember very bad things that children who grow up will only understand. But we as parents, as grandfathers, because I have four grandchildren, I think they're all students. I can tell you that in famous rabbits I have learned much more than they are now, which the minister will say, well, of course, we just want them to have such education as you have, etc. But the thing is the program, and here the program cannot be regulated with the responsibility of the advice on vocational education, but it must be created through an environment that prepares natural resources, economy and everything else, which will create conditions to bring in a programme that students will be able to accept, in one normal way that will not be made by anyone and where first of all, that national identity will be preserved, as it is preserved with me, even though I am in this more advanced age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30884	Do any of the other participants want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Bora Stanimirovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30885	This article does not show that every reform aims to make radical changes, which primarily require a new modern school, but above all new programs. I'd ask later to explain to me somehow when it comes to programs, we don't see a plan anywhere, so the concept is that there won't be a plan and it can be. Then it would be so much more important to make these changes that will somehow create new conditions now. In this situation in the circumstances in which we are, we probably won't be able to achieve everything, even though this period is up to 2010, so there's time to make things right. If one concept that will go to the end consistently, however, is kept, it is far more significant, that is what has burdened us. Perhaps we could have made a more compromise program that, what we were saying today, or yesterday, would somehow relieve our students. We must confess to the truth that our champions are now in this class, in this system, too burdened. You just look at how much content, how many items, how many books they have to carry to school, but all this requires now is one change, far greater than you can see here in this law. However, there is in almost every one, some sublaw or new law that will regulate it, but it is precisely coming from this Article 15 that can in some way make a change when it comes to programmes that will mark the finals. So I propose, here in this article, or from this article, and from the full law, I repeat once again, we see the integrity of the reform, at least nine-year elementary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30886	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30887	The SRS concept that we tried to explain to you in the principle debate on these numerous councils and centres, was one advice with the possibility that he had commissions and expert teams and working bodies, so to leave what is provided for in Article 11, and you accepted the amendment that deletes it, but then we wouldn't have these other two councils and we wouldn't have these centers which, almost everyone is looking for some prominent experts, so you have prominent experts for all three tips, in Article 12, in Article 19, so I just wonder if we have so many prominent experts in the country who will be able to fill all these places. You were wrong earlier when you said that the parliamentary group, when it submits amendments, has to make sure that it has a principled position and that it regulates your entire bill. It is not necessary, if one amendment is adopted, that the Legislative Committee is there which intervenes and continues to do so through the whole law permeates and repairs, so one amendment can be adopted, regardless of which they have not given amendments to the other members concerned, but you have a Article 19, and these are expert teams. You have accepted the amendment to Article 11 which deletes it, and in Article 19, expert teams appear and you will have to delete it now, if you want to remain what you said in Article 11. So, all of this can be fixed, but the thing is that you've made a lot of things complicated and one advice would have been controlled by these expert teams and commissions that would deal with professional schools, it didn't need any special advice, I'm telling you, you don't really care how much these citizens of Serbia cost, and it costs them a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30888	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be possible first. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30889	This amendment is the consequence of our amendment to Article 10 again refers to the National and Educational Council. In particular, Article 15 refers to a advice on vocational education in whose competence we have not touched, but at point 1, it is said - the Council for Professional Education proposes a minister. That competence we passed on to the National Educational Council and so, the change would be at point 1. - the advice on vocational education proposes to the National Educational Council. Now all of this is further what the competences of the expert education council are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30890	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Lemajic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30891	Although this amendment is to Article 15, this is the consequence of the amendment to Article 10, and I am taking the opportunity to point out right now through the competencies provided for the advice on vocational education, what a huge amount of work is envisaged for this council. I shall state the competences, some of the competences, I propose to the Minister, especially the primary school programme by types and educational profiles, secondary vocational and educational education, list of educational profiles, professional graduations, etc. But what I've read, it's quite enough to suggest that this advice on vocational education should bear quite a lot of responsibility. If he is to bear such a responsibility, he should be justified otherwise, he should be given the opportunity to carry out these activities essentially, not only formally. We fear that in this way he will not be able to do his jobs properly and will be able to come to a body that will virtually only formally confirm what the government will impose on him, or appropriate ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30892	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants? No, I don't. ) On the 16th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs: together with Brnislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic, together Dragan Todorovic and Dusan Cvetkovic and MP Ljubomir Kragović. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Who in the name of the applicants of the amendment comes forward for a word? National MP Ljubomir Kragovic, then MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30893	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to article 16 and the title above article 16. This is about a third council, a council for harmonising attitudes in education. We think this advice is too high and there's no need to exist in this bill. It is enough that there are only educational advices and this advice for professional education, that the advice for harmonising attitudes in education is an excess of advice. What is even strange is the minister's statement that this council is costing nothing, an hour ago, but Article 10 clearly states that funds for the ongoing expenditures and work of the council, other than wages, are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. And the very fact that advice can form commissions and working bodies means that material resources are needed, which means that the minister is, in this statement, denying himself. The Education Council shall be composed of 20 members. It is possible that all 20 members from one part of the Republic of Serbia, two members from the Government, two from the Executive Council, can be the same people from the same territory, local self-government, national minorities, and when all of these are added together, it is possible to come, not clearly and well defined, which is another reason for eradicating this Article 16 and the title above Article 16. Finally, since there were questions here specifically of the minister, what after the first class, and the minister answered successfully - after the first grade is the second class, until the next sighting and until the next work of this assembly I ask the question of the minister - what after the second class?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30894	National MP, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30895	Let me warn you, Madam Chairman of Rule 137, which speaks of who is the authorised representative of the amendment's proposings and who has the right to receive the word by amendment, since you have provided for this constituency of the Rules of Procedure that it is the parliamentary group that proposes amendments and that one of the MPs can propose them. We have here amendments to some party that did not participate in the elections, the Socialist People's Party, signed for now by seven MPs. The first is Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, and all the time the amendment is explained by Vladimir Garčević, and if he does not write anywhere who will explain it on behalf of the promoter. Therefore, make sure that such amendments are not accepted or obliged by the promoter that the first person to be signed at least be the one to explain them. I guess there's no need for you to be a member of 137. I'm quoting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30896	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I refer the People's Parliament to a stenogram. Whenever MP Vladimir Garcevic asked for a word, he received the word as an authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, which is in line with the quoted member of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask the People's Parliament, precisely because of the great knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, not to abuse the procedure to remind the Assembly of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević, the basis for replication, mentioning, incorrectly cited from your statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30897	I guess there's some ground where we respect each other and don't take offense. I would ask a representative of the Serbian Radical Party, I respect you, with respect to listening to your statements, I don't throw away, I respect all parliamentary groups. Mrs. Lazic, you know you're a cultural woman and I'm surprised you're trying to act here on stage. I beg you, for normal human co-operation on the ground and everywhere among people, not to do what you're doing. I dropped myself to sign, and if I was teaching the amendments, the government wouldn't respect me on the Education Committee for me to be signed and I'm an authorised representative, which is consistent with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-05-0.u30898	This concludes our work in the afternoon. The assembly continues its work, the eighth extraordinary session, on Tuesday, June 10th at 10.00pm, by discussing the amendment to Article 16 where the applicants Branislav Ivkovic and the group and MPs Dragan Todorovic and Dusan Cvetkovic are. Thank you.
