ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33948	Very briefly, in order for us to have, it seems to me, together with more conditions that this debate gives its result, namely that the government shows what it has done, that you get the best impression that it will be deciding in your decision whether to vote "yes" or "against" the Government, we agreed in the Government that in the coming days we have a presentation of the work of certain ministries, so that for today it is foreseen that Mr Pitic and Mr Djelic speak to you about the work of their ministries, and that on Monday, if these two reports arrive with today, Mr Korać, vice president, talks about health, Mr Gašo Knezevic about his portfolio and Mrs Angelka Mihajlov about the protection of the environment. There is a further order for the next days, so I think it would be good for the initiators of this debate, both for one and the other, and for those who will only vote on it, and for the government, so that we can arrange our work so that we can have more opportunities through this approach systematically to determine what the Government was doing. Just for starters. Otherwise, for every question you have in the meantime, which has nothing to do with this schedule, there's either the vice president or me, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33949	Minister Goran Pitic spoke, so MP Zoran Krasic, the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33950	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is good that we talk about what is the subject of this debate in a way that we present to the citizens of Serbia what the Serbian Government has done in these 1,000 days, to discuss how we see how we continue to work, what are the reform moves and what is it that each of the parliamentary groups, representing and interpreting sometimes and in a very specific way the interests of Serbian citizens, let's see, to resist these kinds of arguments and to see who is speaking and what arguments we use when we try to interpret the interests of Serbian citizens. I will try to interpret what this ministry has been doing, and this ministry has been primarily involved in the implementation of donor programmes, development aid programmes, in the work concerning Serbia's preparation for entry into European integration. This ministry has taken over activities from the previous federal foreign trade ministry, and this ministry is working on issues concerning international organisations, the World Trade Organisation, as well as individual laws, as you know, where I, as a proposer in front of the government, have explained certain laws that many of you have agreed that these are laws that can, in addition to other laws, improve the economic environment and contribute to investing more in Serbia and that within the framework of the budget that we have the activity act, it is transferred to the development part, and to help activate that part of the enterprise in Serbia, which is happening in Serbia. Normally, there is a question of expectations, a question of what we compare things with, do we sometimes mix, say people's, grandmothers and frogs, are we realistic in what we want to say to Serbian citizens, what we can do in three years, what can be done in ten years; what happened in the 1990s, why in the 1990s there could be nothing but destruction, why we couldn't have had basic civilizational fluids and enough electricity and enough drugs, the possibility of paying off social obligations, of not getting serious dues on internal and external debt. These are some topics that I am convinced are of interest to the citizens of Serbia, less than what was yesterday, unfortunately, to be heard, and that was mostly what was normal in the Assembly, but sometimes I also take advantage of that terminology of what is normal and what is not normal. It is not normal for me to talk about the interests of Serbian citizens in a way where you really can't recognize what he was talking about and you can't hold on to any argument or something based on which you could give a feedback or explain what was wrong with the work of the Serbian government, on which basis we could really talk and present to the citizens of Serbia what was happening, because they know very well, and I'm sure they know more than what someone here is trying to represent. Here, a little bit on the first subject, that's donations. We are witnessing, and this is the view of many international organisations, of those who have been following reform processes in many countries, that Serbia is being singled out as a country that has been putting the quality and speed of the transition at the very top for the third year, compared to 27 countries in transition. Someone will say -- let those international organisations go, let's see what's going on in life, but that's exactly what it is based on those indicators, that's how life standards are interpreted, that's how business activities are interpreted, structural changes in Serbia's economy. For Serbia in early October 2000, talks that were conducted on what is what we can expect in the future in terms of international aid, the figure of around $4 billion for a three-year assistance programme. I will tell you the exact figures you can also find on the website of the Ministry of Economic Relations which is public and which day-to-day updates all projects that go through the Serbian Government, deals with all issues of realisation, priority of projects and ensuring that these projects are implemented as planned. Up until now, about two billion and 200m euros have been agreed in Serbia, the largest number of projects have been implemented, and I will say which are the projects. I will say after what Mrs Pop-Lazic mentioned, that what is new borrowing goes into consumption, which is absolutely incorrect, I will list the projects that have been provided by international credits and you will see that all these projects are in the function of reconstructing what has been built up in Serbia in the last ten and more years, in the function of what we need to ensure that we have better roads, better water supply, better hospitals, better organisation of institutions, to provide those effects that will primarily provide business recovery, and these are the key projects that are provided by international institutions. So when we talk about using donations, no abuse to date in Serbia is registered when it comes to using donations that went through the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Most of the funds, I would say over 80%, have been used for the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So we weren't waiting for someone to tell us where the funds were needed to spend, we were using the program that we defined, and working with resolution ministries and donors, making sure that the international community financed what we needed. The government adopted all these reports, and the Assembly also had opportunities (committees) to adopt a report on the use of donations for 2002. So I would say about what projects the Government of the Republic of Serbia has set as priorities and are provided by international donors, which has managed to remove certain problems and strengthen activities in the area of economy, especially infrastructure reconstruction. Perhaps what's most recent in a way that can explain what was done, first to remind you of 2000, we had 59 days in part less than or more without electricity; in 2001 we had four days when there was no electricity, and only because of the thermopower plant "Obrenovac"; in 2002 there was not one day when Serbian citizens were worried that when they pressed the switch they would lose light, without heating, without basic civilization flows they had not had in the previous years. When it comes to agriculture, in 2001, about a third of the funding was provided and all the diesel needs were financed, the need for artificial fertilizer. When it comes to social contributions, 400,000 children's debts have been settled, material security for 32,000 families, payment of back-up pensions, extras for other people's care and assistance, there are single mothers and foster families. The priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the first year of using donor funds were just to get out of the crisis, I would say those basic, life, civil, social, human crisis in which we found ourselves, to provide electricity, to provide the drugs, to ensure that what is fundamental to Serbia's citizens is provided. In the health sector, where around 100m euros have been spent, the most significant projects have been construction works on 50 ambulances that have been brought into the state of aid, i.e. optimal conditions for treatment, the purchase of 100 and repairing of 120 field vehicles intended for rounding patients, the provision of six-month needs of the Republic of Serbia in medicines for heart patients, diabetics, asmatics, cancer patients, the purchase of medical equipment in the form of ECG apparatus, home treatment equipment for 80 municipalities in Serbia. As far as traffic is concerned, the government of the Republic of Serbia's focus was on ensuring the reconstruction of road infrastructure. I'm going to make a bond with those loans that have been taken to work on corridor 10 that Serbia needs to connect with Europe and the Middle East, with the reconstruction of the serious part of the highways, everything that is possible to see in Serbia when you start and when you see paths that, I'd say for decades, have not been updated and where new routes are now seen and something that can get closer to what we don't see in our environment. It is a project to rehabilitate rail traffic; a airport opened in Belgrade, works with the European Investment Bank project, Serbia is beginning to get those centres that show that hubs and aircraft and rail traffic are. These days, we're talking to Germany, and there's been a visit from Chancellor Schroeder, to connect Germany through Serbia with Istanbul, to secure the cargo cargo, which will be the rail traffic in Serbia and how it will get; we could think that we'd put our railway into the JIDG century, how we found it when we arrived in this position. Meanwhile, most of the investments and donations went to energy, again of these 2,200,000 euros, knowing that in energy in the last ten years, in the 1990s, instead of around $500m per year for the type of reconstruction, it has been spent in a total of 10 years. We found the situation when it had to provide in the first year of donations to import electricity, and then to start to reconstruct serious procedures, and in particular TENT, and 50m euros, for example, went to the reconstruction of Tent A3, and 50m euros went to the reconstruction of Tent A5. I purposely give you these examples, just to make sure everyone understands how much surgery it takes to move something in the Republic of Serbia and how much money it takes on capital projects where Serbia was forgotten in the 1990s. In Serbia, funds were spent in a way that the substance was spent, investments were forgotten and had to start not from the beginning, but had to start from a position that meant 20, 30 years more, because when something is not renewed then it takes a lot more money to recover it. There's, normally, a remont of HE "Bay's Garden", there's a thermopower plant called "Nikola Tesla", "Costolac" and "Colubara". There is what our citizens and how they feel, in many cities in Serbia, improved district heating thanks to donations. Water systems, water quality, security to replace those pipes that haven't been changed in 30-40 years -- these are projects funded by donations. In the first year, the projects that we had to secure were financed specifically to try to get back close to the end of the 1980s, because it had to be provided by the intervention current, had to be ensured by intervention that there were drugs in the pharmacies. Although donors don't hear much about it, they realized our situation is that we have months and months left behind in children's allowances, months and months behind in pension payments, payments for other people's care, single mothers, etc. We managed to cover some of our donations. In that first year, we managed to get some of those back-to-back debts to pay, to pay back, to put order into that system, and to have regular payments annually for those who get paid. These are things that are much more important, at least to me personally, than who is in power. It is much more important for me to know if what has been done is really something that has contributed to the citizens of Serbia, something that they have really felt in their daily life, something that someone has forgotten that it is normal to have electricity, that it is normal that when you enter a pharmacy there are medicines, that it is normal that there are no orders, that it is normal to have goods on the market, which has a price, exactly. It's not normal for something to be cheap and not to be found, but to be bought on the black market at a much higher price than the market price. It's the difference between normal and abnormal, and I'm alluding to yesterday's debate. These are the differences, obviously, in which we do not understand each other, and perhaps we understand each other; I hope we understand each other, because we are all trying in some way to convey the interest of Serbian citizens, to interpret their interest. I think this is the only way he can interpret himself, and these are exact figures. It is not like Gordana Pop-Lazic says at one point - I do not want to adhere to statistics, because it does not give very much data, and on the other hand it uses the same data in a way that is not correct. I'm going to say the same thing later, because it's not enough to take the numbers, and then incorrectly interpret them, and not even manage to interpret those figures, because this is a very serious story they're talking about (at least yesterday) billions of dollars. I will explain when these debts came to pass, who is responsible for them and what this government has done on this matter, in a way that whoever comes after this government does not remain on the burden of debt, as we have remained on the burden. We were left with both internal and external debts, and we put all these debts on track so that we could treat them responsibly. In other words, we started paying back internal debts, we started paying back external debts, we started and we managed to pay back the serious part of the backlogs. What this budget cannot bear is that we put everything back immediately, in a time-real dimension, in a way that we told the citizens of Serbia -- this is the only possible thing. If someone else can pack up what's in place, I think it's in the order of fiction, in order of magic, and we're not here to create illusions and magic, but we're here right now to talk about what's in reality that can be expected from reforms in Serbia. Another few elements, in terms of international projects, relating to loans in Serbia. In the second phase of using donations, we moved on to the part that is the reconstruction of infrastructure. So these are these large capital projects where certain loans that have been taken to reconstruct the road infrastructure, about 200 million for the reconstruction of railway infrastructure, for the reconstruction of energy. We enter and enter the third stage of using donations, which is building institutions, using funds for economic recovery, for small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, the European Investment Bank made for the first time compared to other countries in transition a small 20m-euro trip for small and medium-sized enterprises, and the funds were fully used. There are good projects in Serbia, only earlier have they not had the opportunity to be placed on the market, to be financed. These are high-quality projects with a good interest rate, with a good grace period, with a potential for realisation across Serbia, because there is also a need for a territorial disposition in terms of using these loans, it is ensured that there are little effects on the use of these loans everywhere. These are, along with a number of other projects that are happening on the subject, the backbones of using these funds and in the future and ensuring that Serbia has now, when it comes out of one part of the need to use donations in the form of intervention donations, entered the stage when it is necessary to recover the infrastructure and upgrade it in a way that we can use more funds for economic recovery. This does not mean that they still do not need donations for humanitarian needs in Serbia, just because it has come out vulnerable and with very sensitive hotspots and sensitive categories of population, from displaced persons, unemployed, etc. So there's a very large number of people who need support and help through donor programs. We are trying to explain to donors, wanting to go towards investment and recovery, that we are still a very, very sensitive country regarding the need to use humanitarian aid. When I already made a direct investment buckle, yesterday another incorrect data was made, and I would also like, in a way, to support the figures. Few colleagues, Vlahovic, talked about it yesterday. In 2000, Serbia had $60m inflows of foreign investment. So 60 million dollars entered the year there was a previous regime and, normally, there was a certain political instability and the establishment of stability with October's changes. In 2001, there was a small jump, but noticeably, at 160 million. In 2002, it jumped to five million, and this year we're talking over a billion euros. With 6% compared to the social product, Serbia is at the helm of all transition countries in the first five to eight years of their transition. In the third year of transition, we made sure that we were in a comparative position compared to other countries, which for five to eight years tried to find their way to transition. When we compare things, normally it is not to expect everyone to be an expert in the fields, as Mrs. Pop-Lazic said, which is kind of nominated. It is normal to expect that someone who speaks on this side finds his expert component and that where there is by definition some knowledge is presented in some professional way, and yet it is expected not to speculate too much with what is not known, and on the other hand there are still people who are trying to interpret things in a really argumentative and professional way. I'm telling you, you're using information that exists, that can be compared, and you try to get everyone out for this pay phone in a way that interprets certain data, to qualify for a particular argument that can't possibly be qualified, unless it's a political combination, to expect that on the other hand there are those who are closely following what's going on and we're trying to model the reform process in Serbia in a way that is least painful, and it's painful, in a way that ensures that we move to what others are telling us, in the fastest possible way, with a lot of problems, with a lot of relapses and backlogs from the past, but we're moving. Whoever thinks it's possible otherwise, say directly in which segment, at which rate, with what quality reform stick and move could change the quality and speed of change, and not whether there is poverty in Serbia, whether there is high unemployment, whether there is a high external trade deficit, we all know that. We knew that in October 2000, when there were many more problems, and we know that there are fewer now, but there are still many problems; we should be responsible for reading the figures, trying to put them in the dimension of solving these problems, not the general phrases, because it is not the interest of the Serbian citizens. In the donation programme, there are several projects concerning the remonting of individual energy plants, the rehabilitation of a portable power grid on Serbia's territory. There is one large 100m-euro project for municipalities in Serbia's territory, for small local programmes to provide some school reconstructions, small hospitals. Just yesterday, counterpart Djelic returned to bring news that 20 hospital centres in Serbia have been provided with an excellent soft loan, which ensures that Serbia's entire territory improves the quality of health services. Let's talk about things that really touch the interests of Serbian citizens, not in other ways. There are a number of other projects that have been targeted and there are no projects aimed at that classic consumption, the way other countries have entered and remained in debt crises. Speaking of debt crises, I think it's precisely because of the same citizens of Serbia that we're all talking to, to say what the figures are about the debt, what we've taken over, and what's been done on the subject. I'm sure the finance minister will add something to that. Yesterday it was said, and data were used since 1961, 1965, 1970, 1980, etc., that there was a million dollars in debt in 1961 for the former Yugoslavia, five million dollars in 1965, 1970. I wish the previous Yugoslavia had kept millions of dollars in debt. The figures are as follows: Serbia-Montenegro, then Yugoslavia, had seven billion in debt in 1991. For the past 10 years or until 2000 for not paying interest, for taking new debts, among other things to China, serious debts of nearly $500 or 600 million, and you tell us that this money has been spent, we have come to the situation in 2000 that we have had 12 billion debts. So it's not millions of dollars, it's not hundreds of millions, it's $12 billion in debt. What's done? Talks that were conducted and created credibility towards the world have stripped three billion foreign debt in negotiations with the Paris Club. He's talking to the London Club, and he's going to be talking bilaterally to the countries where the money was taken and spent exactly the way you're criticizing to spend it, and I'm telling you, and here's the list here that's how it's being spent. I'll read the project by project, so you tell me if this is spending or whether this is in the interest of Serbian citizens. This is a small difference compared to state resources, compared to governance, compared to domestic behaviour for what comes out of Serbia's citizens' pockets. This is what projects are (in some order that is not a priority): one project is for improving education in Serbia, one for improving exports, one for promoting the resolution of unemployment problems, one for privatising and restructuring the economy, one for roads, one for the reconstruction of railways, for small and medium-sized enterprises, projects for the energy sector, for health, for flying control, for rehabilitation of the water system in Serbia, projects concerning municipal infrastructures. Several cities are listed here, and you tell me whether this is consumption or this is in the interest of Serbian citizens and whether this government is taking care of the interests of Serbian citizens and whether this government is making priority of projects in such a way as not to go into consumption, but to go into recovery of the economy, infrastructure, on the one hand, and on the other hand creating multiplier effects for the realisation of economic projects. Here's two or three more information. Full control of the institutional processes that Serbia is seeking has been established as part of the work of the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. One process is the World Trade Organisation. We are fully in the direction, in progress, all activities have been done, done in a way that there is a serious administration across from the international community, and in a way that we are going through which, on the one hand, opens up Serbia's economy in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, but, on the other hand, closely monitors the interests of the Serbian economy and carefully sees this degree of liberalisation, no doubt wishing that the ultimate goal is to join the World Trade Organisation. More importantly, that process concerning European integration, we are today ready with Europe to negotiate a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We have developed a complete administrative infrastructure. Units are being developed by ministries, a sector has been developed within the Ministry which is fully controlling the process and, I am sure, if, in a political context, there is a need for consensus on the real desire and need to go towards the European Union, we could really have a quick track in moving towards Europe. No different thesis or announcements should be used as something behind which various political manipulations are hidden. European integration must be Serbia's essential interest, because Serbian citizens, based on a public opinion survey, have said (more than three quarters) that they want to be in the EU. If we want to respect that, then we have to do whatever is heard that the opposition, no matter what the project is, no matter what the idea, no matter what the legal project is, will vote against. It is legitimate, but are these really the interests of Serbian citizens, whether Serbian citizens deserve to be around the most important projects for Serbia, and one of these is Europe, there is no consensus. It is a normal question for those who do not want to vote to join these ideas, and my personal view is that this is one of the most important issues for Serbia, the possibility of Serbia coming out of the classic Balkan story track, the possibility that Serbia actually joins Europe and that in some ways we have costs, but much more benefits than what awaits us on that road. If we do not want to remain the appendix of Europe and if we do not want to remain south of the developed north, we must support this idea that exists in the direction of moving towards Europe, as well as these activities that, once again, are fully organized in a way that we are serious conversants to those who will evaluate that path. So that's what we all need to get together about. Let me say something about that support of the international community. The European Union has done something that it has not done for any country in transition, and precisely because it has estimated that we are a country that has suffered a lot and suffered a lot and has been destroyed in the 1990s. For three years, they gave us grant-free aid, and they gave other countries a year each. It's something that, on the one hand, speaks about the depth of doom and the various tragedies that took place in the 1990s, and on the other hand it speaks of the belief that there were those who could tell them what it was that we needed to move quickly from that intervention position to the position of recovery, both economic and infrastructure. We adopted the Government Action Plan on the rules needed in 2004 to comply with European Union regulations. There are 50 of them, as priorities that need to be coordinated. A series of amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government have been adopted, each proposing giving a declaration of compliance with the rules of the European Union. In the respect of other countries, good examples, we have adopted that the first item of the agenda at the government's session is really work on the European Union, that it be for now once a month, twice a month, and when we enter the stage to be every week. We have adopted a strategy of communication, internal and external, training of officials, where so far more than a hundred of those who have been trained to work on this path of joining the European Union have been closed. Finally, with many other activities, a skeleton of the national strategy for joining the European Union was created. It contains all other activities as an umbrella, as one national project that needs to ensure that we travel a path that will provide as little cost as possible, and the more it uses for us on that road. Not exhausting all the topics that have been, because it is a series of activities on the bilateral plan, legislative projects that you know about, because we have communicated together, and the issue of financial leases, publishing rights, the Law on concessions, the Law on Foreign Investments and the now-prepared law on foreign trade, the mortgage law, the law on international arbitration - means, there is one broad legislative activity that needs to ensure that Serbia provides an environment that will continue to attract capital, but not the speculative capital as in many other countries, but the capital that should ensure that Serbian citizens can live in a normal country -- in the end, we really leave the interpretation of the interests of Serbia's citizens to them. And here you are, interpreting the interests of the citizens through what you've done, what you think you're going to do and what it is that you recognize that it's not well done in the way you think you could do better. I think it's a serious subject and then we and how we have something to say, so as someone said yesterday (I think it was Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic), please make an expert way to communicate, so let's see who the expert is and what area he's in.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33951	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, a proposal from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33952	I would have one proposal per Rules of Procedure, since it is the legitimate right of the government to turn this point into a report on work, to present a report on work. Since the report on work is not submitted in the form in which the Government Act should be submitted at least once a year, together and all, but is submitted to the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, and sometimes not to the most competent committees, let's say the report that we have now submitted to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, rather than to the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, I suggest you bring these reports together, because there will be 15 or more. They are not available to all MPs, given that they are received only by board members, and not by all MPs; I suggest you bring them together and deliver all these reports to all MPs, so that we can participate in the debate, and this is how only the members of the committee have the opportunity to look at, say, a donation report, given that the work of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad has been brought together, that we do not have a single report on the work of the Government, that according to this Rules of Procedure and the Government Act, the report on the Government itself has not been passed, and we do not see whether it has been adopted or not adopted by the Government. So, the proposal is to deliver united reports from all ministries, so that we MPs who are not members of the board can gain insight into what all ministries have been doing, not just through their praises to hear about what they've been doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33953	The proposal tabled by the MP is not a proposal that I can give to the Assembly for voting, because it represents an initiative by the participants to discuss how the Government should participate in the debate at the Assembly's session, and on the basis of Article 84(2), I am obliged to recommend that the National Assembly may decide, but on a proposal from the Committee that discussed the report, that the examination of the report should also be carried out at the National Assembly's session. So you have a proposal from the MP to act in the debate and the National Assembly cannot decide. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, a proposal from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33954	I point out the violation of Article 213(2), three, four and five. Of course, what I'm about to present is not supposed to be interpreted as challenging the government's right to argue and how to use its views on this agenda point, but if this speaker is already using the notion that this is an opportunity for the government to submit its report, then I must warn you that there is no united debate here on the Serbian Radical Party's proposal to vote non-trust with the Republic government and debate on the government's report, because there is no such report. The position of the fourth member, which I just cited, reads: "The report by the Government of the National Assembly shall be delivered immediately after the reception to the Members of Parliament for the purpose of meeting". The MPs have not received such a thing, and if the Government thinks that during the debate it can use some reports of an internal character to do so, I do not dispute it, but do not call on the report as some official document that does not exist, do not call on the committee's reports, because it is obvious that they have considered it, although reading these provisions cannot be determined on the basis of which and on whose initiative. If you want to concentrate the debate on this agenda point in the way the Prime Minister has just said, first Mr Pitic, then Djelic, and so on, I must tell you that this does not oblige us as proposings, and that during the debate, we will use the argument in the way that we think it is best and more consistent to convince the majority in the National Assembly that this government has not achieved the results that could continue to power. I think this violation of Article 213 is probably in the function of clouding the truth. What's going on here? I do not dispute the right for outgoing ministers to give their report this way on what they have been doing for 1000 days, but do not use the word "report", because then the rules of the Rules of Procedure are violated. Pitic can come out and say - my ministry, I as minister did it myself, but don't call on any paper addressed as a report, because the MPs have not, have not received it, did not comply with the Rules of Procedure. Don't, because then, practically, you get the possibility that, as in previous exposure, you create a kind of mix-up with voters, so that voters listen a little bit to what happened, a little bit to what you did, a little bit to what you promise, and there's not one in any paper. As one of the members of the government said - I think this government has some kind of program. No one saw that program. Since I know what the answer will be, I suggest that the Administrative Committee be declared on this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33955	The MP challenged the views of Articles 2, 3 and 5. Article 213(2) states: "The government reports to the National Assembly when requested by the National Assembly or by its own initiative and at least once a year." Item 3: "The National Assembly may, on a proposal from the individual committee, conclude without a search that the Government will request a report on the work of the Government, or a report that the Government will inform the National Assembly of policy-making issues, law enforcement, other regulations and general acts in a given area." I read Section 5 as an explanation for the proposal of MP Dejan Michael. There is no violation of any of these views, except for my request that ministers, government members and vice presidents use the word "result" instead of using the word "result" so that MPs do not succesively comment on this Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, the members of the Government, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, can get a word when requested, have no restrictions on exposure, or what will be the content of what a member of the Government will expose; while within the Rules of Procedure and while respecting the National Assembly, he has the right to speak. You're not satisfied with the answer and I'm asking the Administrative Committee to come forward with this. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, second injure of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33956	It was first not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but only a proposal for you to allow all MPs in one more tolerated atmosphere to discuss a vote of mistrust to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So that was one well-intentioned proposal you didn't appreciate. It's not a neck. It's a neck. Whether he's going to say "result" or "report," we don't care. The bottom line is that these reports, not the results of the ministry's work, are delivered to the resolution committees, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, does not exist as a possibility, but the Government reports to the National Assembly when requested by the National Assembly or by its own initiative, and at least once a year. In the last three years, we've never received such a report. "The National Assembly can, on a proposal from one committee... ", that's all he has, and -- the president of the National Assembly, immediately after the reception, delivers to the MPs, for the purpose of getting to know, the report on the work of the government; we did not get this, since you, as a report on the work of the Government, did not get it in that form, but received individual reports on the work of the ministries, which they referred to the committees in charge. My proposal went in the direction of, most well-intentioned, that you, those reports, that have come on boards, just copy and deliver to all the MPs, so that we can get to know each other. Now, you're going into another, I think you're completely unnecessary manipulation, that we're going to call reports now results, and they're reports. I don't know what you're going to do in this way, whether this debate or what the ministers are about to bring to order with the Rules of Procedure -- you won't, and you won't let the MPs, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, be familiar with what the ministers for this speaker are going to say. It is indisputable for ministers to appear here, since they may be bit by the conscience that in these three years they have not filed reports of their work here in the Assembly and that the Assembly has no opportunity to get to know each other, only through the final account, which for the past year, although it has not adopted or discussed in November, so we do not know how money was spent last year, and it is almost on the extremity of this fiscal year. Absolutely multiple violations of both the Rules of Procedure and the Budgetary System Act, but simply, what is the request of the MPs, it is that through this debate all MPs can have equal conditions, that we all get and, as you say, "result" the work or work of the ministries and that, then, through these results of work or unwork or goals that have been achieved, we can all participate equally in the debate. This is how you make it impossible for MPs who are not members of the board to receive these reports, since it does not exist, to have these reports coming, but not to be shared with all MPs. You are, according to this Rule of Procedure, obliged to submit these reports, as it is said in this view: "The report by the Government of the President of the National Assembly, immediately upon receipt, delivers to the MPs". The government's reports are gone, there are reports from individual ministries. So, you deliver them to all the MPs, so we can all participate in the debate completely evenly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33957	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The applicant submitted a point 2. - a discussion of the mistrust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, if anything in the procedure is violated in relation to the right of the promoter, it shall bear the responsibility of the chairman. The way ministers, vice-presidents and Prime Ministers will defend the government against the National Assembly, as long as they respect the MPs and respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, is on them. That's all I can tell you. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, unless you think the members of the government should be quiet when there's a debate about mistrust. People's MPs are getting "it, that," but it lifts the meaning of the Assembly when it comes to the debate on trust with the government. [[Tossing out of the O.R.: That, that.]] I'd like a session of the Administrative Board, where this will be included. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33958	If you please, Madam Chairman, I would just like to point out and remind Mr. Prime Minister that this is a government whose term of office is March 18th. So no report on the 1,000 days of this government can be considered. It's a very important, perhaps crucial question. You can file a report on March 18th. To submit a report, the logical interpretation is that the epilogue of your reports should be the decision of this assembly whether or not it adopts your report, and it is not the same as the discussion of the government's mistrust. So, article 130 clearly says, not to quote, Madam Chairman will look at what this assembly is doing. If you wanted to submit a report, which you absolutely have the right to, by your own initiative, it must be placed on the agenda and it must be said - a proposal for a decision to adopt a report on the work of the Government of Serbia, for a period of time. Nobody slows it down for you. Of course, you in your story can look back at everything you've done in this past period, come back, since this is the government of continuity, and that of the previous period. We don't mind, but make sure you answer the arguments we're giving you and try to challenge them. That's well-intentioned advice. Don't file a report as schoolboys -- I taught this one and this lesson, but don't ask me this one, I don't know this one. We're going to ask you everything and you have to answer everything. I think that's clear to all of you. But, well, you've made some strategy of yours, as we have made our strategy, ready for that strategy of yours. We are ready, for every minister who comes out to file a report, to give further arguments. If I have already come out for a pay phone, I will take the opportunity, because we have been a little late for the transfer from The Hague tribunal, the status conference of Dr Vojislav Seselj, that today, on St. Luke, I congratulate all Orthodox believers on the glory, especially the family of Seselj, who this year celebrates without his host in the house, thanks, first of all, to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33959	A member of 130 is quoted as saying what the National Assembly is doing, to make: law, budget, development plan, spatial plan, final account, Rules of Procedure, declaration, resolution, recommendation, decision, conclusion and authentic interpretation of the act taken. The People's Parliament is right, the agenda item is a proposal for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia. So this debate will end with a question - who's to vote for mistrust, and nothing else can. In that context, there is a correct objection, but I have no other mechanism for members of the government than to warn them that they must respect the National Assembly. Whether they're going to report or result, answer your questions or not, I don't have the opportunity to intervene, for that is the MPs, with the right to reply, with the right to speak. Do you want the Administrative Board to declare itself? No, I don't. ) Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33960	This was a rude hand move, pointed at me, that it was my fault that someone today was not celebrating his glory with his family. First, to join the congratulations, I congratulate all those who celebrate the glory of St. Luke. Secondly, in no way have I or anyone in this country affected the decision, I mean an honorable decision, not to enter the goals of that decision, Dr Vojislav Seselj to surrender to The Hague. He went, as I recall, to The Hague alone, with all the party honors and I respect it very much and respect his decision to do so and to defend himself there; probably he thinks he is defending Serbia and it will be good to do so. It's good for him, for your party and for Serbia, and I recommend that everyone behave that way. I didn't send him there, and I didn't send anyone in this government. What anyone has done, individually, in his past, whether he has committed war crimes, is not, is in court one, the other, the third and the court of history. As for this, we're asking if ministers can use the term "report"? So many ugly words have been said on the political scene of Serbia in the last 15-20 years, even in this assembly, and even from this pay phone, and I really don't know how to bother anyone with the word "report". This is not the point of the agenda - the report on the government's work, because you did not ask for a report on the government's work. No Parliament has asked for a report on the government's work. If she'd asked for a report on the government's work, she'd have gotten a report. On March 18th, as the promoter of this item of the SRS agenda, I have now realized that you want the government to fall because you are not satisfied with its work from March 18th to today, or until the day you launched an initiative to vote for non-trust. That's also good news. This means that your opinion, as well as the opinion of the largest number of Serbian citizens, is that the Serbian government worked very well until 18 March this year. It is a compliment to all those who participated in her work, and above all to the late prime minister who led the government for two years. About how the government did after his death, the court will give history; 6, 7, 8 months, as far as it went, could be a period of debate. But don't deny constitutional law to Serbian citizens who are also ministers, to say what they think they should say. The item of the agenda is - an initiative to vote on mistrust, or whatever it is called, and we are acting in accordance with your proposal and we are talking about what the government did. Whether it's the results, whether it's the report or anything, it's not the essence of the debate. It bothers you that we have entered the essence. It has always been a much more important form than the essence of the proposal. They were much more important passwords than what was done. The ministers sitting in this government are much more important than what they did, not how it was received from one side or the other. Yesterday I said, and to repeat, we didn't get a mandate from the citizens, first September, and then December 2000, to rule, but we got a mandate to change. And this government, as well as the government of Dr. Zoran Djindjic, who has now given a positive assessment, continues this job, and whether you're going to assess it positively or negatively, we're going to see that at the end of this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33961	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, as an authorised promoter, and so is MP Zoran Angelkovic. All officials or presidents of parliamentary groups have been authorised and I read the names in a row as MPs have applied. National MP Zoran Angelkovic according to the Rules of Procedure, then MP Dejan Mihajlov, then MP Zoran Krasic, who as an authorised representative asked for a word at the same time as the first minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33962	There's a few things here. Of course, when it comes to history, it will establish a lot. They will establish a place for those who have been sent, and for those who have gone, and for those who have sent them or kidnapped them, that they may be found there. Everyone will be in court of history, and we probably won't be able to judge it, but our generations and children will evaluate it, and everyone will take care of themselves, how long it will be there. Article 213. Rules of Procedure, let's get back to him. First, let us get information here whether the government filed or failed to report to the National Assembly. If she filed a report with the National Assembly, please let us be informed about it and get that report. We don't mind the government reporting, but please let us win. A number of MPs, and I'm not on any committee, so I'm not interested in that. If the report has come to the Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Assembly is obliged to submit the report immediately after the reception to the MPs for the purpose of meeting; this is Article 213(4), please do so. First, let us be informed whether it has been delivered, if delivered, why it has not been delivered to the MPs. The second question is when it comes to the report itself; paragraph 2 says that the government submits a report to the National Assembly when requested by the National Assembly. She didn't ask for it, but she says it's either by her own initiative or at least once a year. If the government has an initiative to discuss the report on the government's work, let it propose to put that item on the agenda, I promise that we will also support that agenda point, to discuss the government's report, after this session, because this session has its agenda. That doesn't mean we're against the ministers exposing what they've done, but it's not a report. Please, let me get one thing straight. If the report came to the Assembly, please let us have it. If we're going to get that report and he's here, I'm asking the government to state whether the initiative is to put the agenda item on the agenda -- a report on the government's work, and we're going to discuss a report on the government's work. Now let's talk about what the government did in our opinion, in the view of those who asked for the government's shift, to vote on it, so we can move on, see if this government will file a report or not. The government probably won't file a report because it's going to fall here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33963	Article 213(4) has already been the subject of an objection to the infringement. Every year, the government submitted reports to the committees. The committees had the right to initiate the plea procedure in the Assembly, they didn't do it, but none of it is the subject of the agenda we're on right now. The topic of the agenda is to vote non-trust with the government of the Republic of Serbia. There's got to be a debate before there's a vote. I can only ask the ministers once more to lead this debate always in agreement with the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dejan Michael, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33964	I must say that I am completely surprised and surprised that Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic did not read the Government Act in which he stands, that is Article 14(2), that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to report to the National Assembly. I am simply surprised that the basic act governing the government's work since 18 March this year failed to be read and used and applied in this assembly, in this country, anyway. This coming weekend can be used just to better prepare for Monday's debate. That's one thing. The second thing, the report is delivered to the National Assembly, is not delivered to the relevant committee. And if there is a report, and the media has been honking about it for two weeks, that report is being delivered to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly makes up 250 MPs, it means that the report is being delivered to each MP. You're saying that these reports (now you've renamed them to work results, and everyone's talking about reports) had to be delivered to everyone. So I expect that now they've already been renamed, and these are the results that the ministers are going to represent here, they should be something that the government will defend itself. We don't mind, because the report on the work of this government can be seen on the street every day when we get out, and it's a report on the work of this government. What you're going to write, and numbers and statistics, which, through statistics, you're going to try to make all of it out, that's one thing. Reports are something else, and if reports already exist, then the National Assembly is made up of 250 MPs, not 7, 8, 10 or 12 board members who will receive, adopt or not adopt the report. So, the work report.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33965	The MP pointed out an injury that had already been pointed out once, so I'm not going to repeat the argument. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33966	Dear colleagues, I call on a member of the 83rd to specify who can attend the meetings of the National Assembly, I will now quote him: "The National Assembly meetings, next to the MPs, are attended by members of the Government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislatory, as well as by other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly." First I ask the President of the National Assembly if the gentleman in question has been invited to parliament and in what capacity, because I don't know who it is, and if anyone can enter parliament, I would really take my three children tomorrow, because, believe me, working on this motion to vote for no confidence in the government, for a month I've hardly seen them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33967	All those who have the right to enter are invited, so is Deputy Energy Minister Mr Nikolic. All those who have the right to participate, are invited to sit in the National Assembly building, in the session hall, persons who help the Prime Minister, such as the deputy minister. I ask the Administrative Board to make a statement as to whether or not article 83 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by the fact that the deputy minister is sitting in the session room. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33968	I think that today's debate, apart from this part that Minister Pitic spoke of, reflects the essence of your request, that is, your view of what is to happen today in the National Assembly, and what is worse, what is to happen in Serbia, which is contrary to the concept of this government, because this concept is normal Serbia. That is why I call on the promoters to vote against the government mandatory when the vote on this agenda comes. As far as the report is concerned, I'm not surprised Mr. Michaelo doesn't follow the calendar, since he warned me that I don't know, that I'm not familiar with the government's reporting once a year. Let me inform you that according to the calendar we recognise as state every year, 365 days, except for the 366-day offender, that this year did not begin on 18 March of this year and did not end on 1 April or 1 September of this year, but that this year is still going on, both October and November and December of this month. Therefore, the government will submit a report on work for 2003 and there is no dilemma and it is no ignorance of the rules. As for the report for the past year, I have been informed that these reports have been submitted to the committees. The committees are the legitimate working bodies of the Assembly. None of these committees asked for an additional report to be adopted and adopted at the assembly session, nor am I aware that there is a proposal for any MP to adopt a report on the government's work at the session. Therefore, you have left the fundamental debate, you have invited us here to replace us, which is completely legitimate; your argument is not directed towards the government, which is normal, but towards the MPs you wish to interfere with to vote against this government together. On our part, we have come to tell everyone who is interested, both to you as legislators and other MPs and citizens of Serbia who can follow this session through their televisions, what has been done and to show this time what your policy is. Your policy is that you know very precisely what you do not want and that you have no idea what you want, and it has been shown for a very long time; you have little taken it from this second promoter for the third point, because it is a stable policy of their party, but it is known to the citizens of Serbia without me telling them. You said-- down the government, and that's totally legitimate. On our side, the goal is to repeat here, to come and talk about what has been done, what has not been done, why what has not been done has not been done, and what we are going to do by the end of this year, by the end of next year, etc. This will give the citizens of Serbia the chance to decide who is leading the policy in this country and I ask you to make all the arguments you have against this government, even those arguments that are entirely the result of imaginary affairs (and these are some "arguments") to present them now. Don't let us waste our time -- not yours, not these congregations, not our citizens -- in chasing down some business gaps that don't really exist, that you're creating, and to warn you that that time of 10.00 hours for this debate hasn't even started yet. Do not accuse us of delaying that historic day when this parliament will decide whether we trust or not, you delay it. We're not afraid that day, we want to work and we'll work and after that day, we'll work next year, but I don't know what you're afraid of, you won't be disbanded if the government gets the trust of this congregation. Therefore, there has always been room for opposition in this parliament, so there will be next year, both in 2005 and 2006, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33969	National MP Dejan Mihajlov, right to reply to Mr. Zoran Zivkovic's statement to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33970	Except knowing how long a calendar year lasts, I'm afraid I haven't heard anything new from you. You have learned well how much it takes, and that is something that at this point is not enough for this government to get support in the congregation. But what we can talk about here, it's that you here have to file an account for your unhappiness, you've had a chance to file your reports. Since you're talking about the Continuity of the Government, about 1,000 days of the Government and here you can see what the bill is, that is, that you've been able to calculate that the year is 365 and 366 days, but 1000 days haven't passed yet, not since 18 March of this year, and since 26 January 2001 it hasn't been 1,000 days, but well. You are talking here about the continuity of the government, so let me tell you, since you were neither an MP in this assembly nor a minister in the previous government, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not report on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor was the report discussed at any of the meetings of the Assembly. Some reports have been submitted to the committees, but the government's overall report has not been submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that is the first. Secondly, the DSS parliamentary group is several times in writing, and I will deliver this to you, asking Natasa Micic to use her authority in the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of this year and to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia for a report on work. Natasa Micic didn't answer that question. We repeated that memo at the beginning of this year. You've come here to account for your unhappiness, and that's what we need to talk about here. I want to tell you something, you won't have a chance to report on your work for this year, but it will be the addition of duties after the extraordinary parliamentary elections in which you will submit a report to the DSS about your unhappiness and submit your duty after the next snap elections, when we will take (unfortunately, and fortunately, Serbian citizens) most of them in this Assembly and when we will otherwise lead Serbia and when we will not complain that we have a million unemployed and that we have a decline in production, when there will be no files to which you admire and which you glorify as your successes. If it's a success for you to have a million unemployed and to record a decline in social production, I don't know what would be a failure for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33971	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33972	Since we discussed this issue, we are talking today about the results of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the situation in which the Republic of Serbia has been in place since the DOS took power, from January 25, 2001, practically until today. We had a chance to hear it was all normal. It's normal that workers don't work, it's normal to go into debt slavery, it's normal to permanently close some industrial capacities without any perspective. There is only one thing that is still unclear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, where approximately DOS is trying to say it is a positive result, which is usually said to be monetary stability, a secure and stable exchange rate. I hope Mr. Pitic listens, since Mr. Seselj mentioned him in The Hague this morning, and so does those friends from America who can't visit, to pay attention to that exchange rate and those donations. We had a chance to listen to Mr. Pitic here for months. So the exchange rate would be about some kind of foreign exchange rate. It has been practically since November 2000, but since we can call this government for something from January 25th, then it means from January 25th 2001, essentially based on underestimating foreign currencies, above all, converting currencies, and the goal is to ensure stability and thus curb inflation. Of course, inflation after January 25, 2001, because in October, November and December 2000, and the good part of January 2001, the transitional government allowed the price to rise to little, so that in those two months the price indices were practically over 60%. Thus, a good starting position was created so that in their mandate they do not show a large price increase to a small extent and that inflation is shown to be much lower. Why was that done? It was done precisely in the period when crisis headquarters were entering companies, whether with guns, whether without guns ("Mepritlastics", "Galenika" and other enterprises); crisis headquarters that should have reminded themselves of self-government, whether or not to change the management structure, and the main goal is to suppress production and reduce the value of the basic capital of these social enterprises, so that those with purses, godmothers, or like the one from Capac who bought a good portion of the "Soy Protein" action, and no one knows it, nor what it is, nor in business circles treats it. However, it was later found out that it was a Cane Frog. That policy of a stable dinar course has yielded results. Almost the same results as when large inflation is disproportionate and disproportionate increases in prices of goods in Serbia, primarily import goods. She's more expensive with us than she is in her country of origin. Furthermore, the dollar, the dinar, the mark, and later the euro, or the course, the currency relationship came into the situation to please only the importers. No exporter is eligible and is therefore not exported. Imports are paid, and imports are faced with problems, which means growth in imports and an increase in the trade deficit. The government will be recognizable by the enormous growth of the trade deficit. Of course, this has also been appropriated by liberalisation in changes to regulations and sublegal acts that regulate external trade, so we have come into the situation that mainly on our market there are goods that compete with our production and our goods. Of course, that competition couldn't withstand our production and was doomed to failure. If we go to the number system, then the cumulatively expressed value of imports in the period 2001 and the estimate by the end of 2003 should be around $17 billion, and the total exports in this period should be around six billion. This means that the foreign trade deficit, cumulatively observed, is about $11 billion, and there are two forecasts of how much this will be in 2003 alone: this should be about $4.5 billion in one better variant, although there are also those who estimate that the deficit will be far greater. Of course, there was a decrease in the rate of export coverage by imports, so if it's 35% here this year, it's about that ceiling as far as it can go. Before that was much more, say, in 2001 38%, in 2002, 37%. This course policy has only stimulated consumption, but it has also led some to sell what they sell, and to reduce the net value of their assets because of this consumption and the provision of elemental needs. That's what's justified by what Mrs. Cory Widowsky said - if you can't pay for the electricity, you sell the apartment. It's a net asset reduction. Huge imports, export indemnity, business losses result in one part of our production being lost permanently. We heard yesterday that it's no harm, that it's normal, so I'd ask you to go to the First Five-year-old and explain to people that it's normal. Yesterday, there was also an objection that it was the capacities planned for other markets. This capacity was created for another market, and just to remind myself, from 1998 to 2000, these production capacities worked as much and had exports and could be lived. Ever since this new market economy came, and Petoletka's been closed. It's a similar situation with other companies. The economic logic of changing currency relations, I hope you're listening to me, is based on something the economic theory doesn't know. (Goran Pitic, from the place: On what? Here, now, Mr. Drink, since you're the expert on that, I'll let you hear it. Practically, it's based on the next one. If this year you plan to have about 8% inflation in Serbia, I must inform you that in the United States, that inflation will be between 1.5% and 2%. You as an expert on the world's history of the economy, I suppose, you know. There will be a decline in social product in Serbia of about 5%, according to your estimates, while there will be an increase of about 2% in the United States. The value of the dollar in the dinars is shrinking. That course is unstable, and there's something quite the opposite, that there's a 20-fold increase in our course. That economic theory hasn't recorded yet. A few months ago when we pointed out something that looked a little bit like Argentina, you were arguing. Now the National Bank of Serbia has also won an IMF official, there is no fundamental difference between Dinkic and Kori Udovici. They implement the same policy, and that policy is a policy of destruction. As for donations, or donor conferences, this Mr. Busek told you not to count on those four billion, or 3.9 billion. No more donor conferences, no more, because they wrote you off, they don't believe in you, they suspect the way these funds were spent, because the results aren't satisfactory. The fact that you're here boasting, so a DOS representative comes out and says, "The Institute of Comparative Law has assessed that the Law on Combating Organized Crime is the best law, in accordance with world standards, is a simple lie." I talked to the people in that institute, they said - disaster by law. This is where the Minister of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs came out... (President: Are you using the next 10 minutes? Yeah, I'll keep going. And he says the whole West supports our Labour Act. That's not true at all. Yesterday we had a chance to hear that there was no serious objection to the privatisation process by those who took part in the process. And why would thieves complain when they came to capital cheaply? Why would Cane the Frog object? Why would Kostic object? There's nothing to complain about. This is the power the financial mafia has brought to power. If you don't believe me, watch Studio B, B-92, the show about breaking up SFRY and breaking up Serbia, where you yourself admit how much money you got from whom, as many of the Americans, as many of some of the other institutions your prime minister has confessed to 30 million. Until a few months ago, representatives of state authorities participated in the coup, and you arrested them in the meantime. You can't have a man hanging out with you. Very simple and simple: Milutinović was hanging out with you, ended up in The Hague; he hung out with you Vuk Draskovic, here he was in a difficult opposition; he was hanging out with you Sreten Lukić, digging, digging and digging, and we warned him. Jovica Stanisic, who helped you, who formed you in the extreme case, is here in The Hague. The time for mental-media manipulation has passed. Here, let me remind you, when the red berets were on the street, you said it wasn't allowed, they protested for co-operation with The Hague and couldn't be in their working uniforms. The other day on your warrant in those same uniforms was the police, and again a protest over The Hague. I don't know, something's wrong with that. We don't have that medical report yet. That's what we're waiting for to be delivered. Djindjic, too, had to hide the report, because he was disappointed when he read the diagnosis. Why could you keep that dinar course and show some stability? You could have for the simple reason that money came from abroad. However, the law on the return of old foreign savings implies that in later years, which are the years to come, it increases the obligation to return. These first few years, however, are low on the annuity that is being paid off, and it's probably all about how you're going to go out with the process of denationalisation and the return of the property you promised. We're not, we're against it. We support you, when you put it on the agenda, when it is known that a large number of people abroad will have a claim based on what you promised. You came to power thanks to one false illusion based and supported by hatred as a means to achieve this illusion. You can't get out of that illusion. You will continue this session by system (here, it is already recognised) - you do not believe much of the statistics. It's that you've changed them a little bit, but we quote your data, what you're saying. We only confirm what you say when it comes to statistics. I know some people who have been working on the methodology of statistical research, and I know what you've changed, and I'm not contesting that, but the devastating results are, and this statistics can't give a proper insight into the depth of the sink we've fallen into since you came to power. There are good things. In 2002, a law was adopted in the Federal Assembly, and then by mistake, someone supplied the material of an international financial institution that speaks under what conditions some 300, 400 million dollars of loans can be provided. It's all good in there. The IMF and the World Bank system have determined how the price of electricity should be determined, so he conditioned, so he said, if you raise that price to some level, which is prescribed there, then we can talk about giving you some credit. It was similar with pensions. It's said that if you change the way pensions and the way pensions line up, and you cut the prices to a little bit and the cost of living, and that's how you actually cut pensions, then you can count on help. If you reconsider budget spending, if you execute the persecution of those who are against The Hague, if you come into a situation to convince the citizens of Serbia that all those who defend themselves against NATO are criminals, that's your theory. This is why criminal charges have been filed against individual representatives of the previous government, in order to dissuade any thought of conducting a proper national policy. You're bringing people into depression, saying nothing can change. It can change and everyone has to appreciate the people's will. If we go system numbers, then tell me what he's doing in this country, what he's making. I have to tell you that you've done a very good policy that's been drawn from abroad, you're destroying the army and you're banging social funds, with all our production capacities shut down. When you finish that job, you'll pick yourself up, you'll go and say-- well, that's democracy, that's normal. It is illusory to further quote economic and financial data on the results of your government, but the affair is catching up with the affair. Ministers protect themselves by establishing immunity, the government is capable, yet to find out who did what crime. This is the only government that doesn't answer to be prosecuted for organized crime, because then it's gonna find out who did what. This government is a product of organized crime, no matter what combination, expert, political, inter-party or otherwise. You know about the report by that German institute, which said in 2000 before the elections that they would never come here again, because 17 political parties do not have any political party by organisation, none of them are able to write a programme, to get the state out of the crisis, to carry out the transition process, and it has about two goals. The first, to introduce a little more freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and the second, to revive a market economy on a completely different basis, primarily private property. This government has proven that it is not capable of doing so. We don't need to oppose these goals, but the sincere goals of transition. Everyone saw it and it's not normal for Shredder to be here for only four hours. He came here to help a little, since he's arguing about mistrust. It's not normal. He runs a business delegation, and there are no businessmen in the delegation, but few to take pictures and say, "Here we are with them, we support them." No one supports you. There is no one who supports you. You support each other because of your interest. Something similar to last debate over Natasha Micic. You've all written it off, only the GSS is looking to protect some of their positions for a few more days, months until it passes or something happens. There's nothing to happen. Anything that can happen in the economic sphere will get worse and worse. No programs, no personnel, no experts, only experts in their office. Look what you've done with the judiciary, what you've done with the public prosecutor's office. Where's that justice? The Constitutional Court won't come forward and say what's in accordance with the law and what's not in line. He's knocked down so many regulations for you. You may continue to rule the regulations, pursuant to Article 2(2). The Government Act, but only on condition that you prevent the Constitutional Court from discussing it, and otherwise you don't have support here, either in the street or in the country, you have no support anywhere. You've lost support in your families, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33973	Just notice that the 24th session of the Defence and Security Committee will be held today at 1400 hours in the Bureau's room. The word is made by MP Tomislav Kitanovic, a replica of the presentation of MP Zoran Krasic. The basis for the replica is a quote on the party -- the Serbian Renewal Movement in a difficult opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33974	The Serbian Renewal Movement has co-operated with other parties to bring down the previous government. The Serbian Renewal Movement may have made the biggest contribution to achieving the goal. As far as we're concerned, we think we were right, because we know what the results of the previous government were -- catastrophic results. No government in history has ever produced such results. What did the previous government leave to this regime? On the other hand, the Serbian Renewal Movement is also an opposition to this government, because it does not consider this authority better than the previous one, and that is why the SPO has summed up its thinking in a password for these to go away without them coming back or even better yet not having them back and these being sent away. So they're equal to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33975	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I couldn't help but answer the word, as Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic began to interpret the theory of transition yesterday. Today, Mr Krasic said, and I agree with him, it is illusory that he quotes economic data and I really suggest that he no longer quote them. I suggest you stick to what you know, which is the right thing to do. I don't think it's bad to talk about things that someone knows, but I would ask you that if you use something as data in the economy to interpret it in a way that's valid, justified, and I'm going to tell you what you've used, some data, and just in the period of the transitional government that was done, actually before the transitional government came, which made sure that inflation was 120% in 2000, but I'll come to that. Previously, I think I recognize you somewhere as the advocate of that old system that existed in Russia, but fortunately the Russians left it. It's a central-plan system that implies that everything is handled, that there is no liberalisation, that banks serve to realize those instruments for which someone tells them where to invest. Your argument that our production is left to fail because there has been liberalisation is precisely saying that you do not recognize competition as one motive, as something that is the basic instrument of the market economy, and since you are talking about business losses, you do not exactly recognize that this is happening in social property segments. I don't think you may be that much of an advocate, but obviously you're using an argument that recognizes these two elements, which is the central-plan system and social property, as the basis of your argument against competition. Let me tell you a famous story about what neither you nor Mr. Michael's termologically recognize, and I'm afraid there's a bit of a bigger problem in non-recognition, there's no social production as a term, a fall in social production. There is a decline in industrial production and there is a social product. The social product has its structure, and if you do not recognise that in Serbia the current decline in industrial production is a statistical bond, but that unfortunately, I am informing you that this year the social product is projected to be 3%, a positive growth of the social product, rather than a fall of 5%. I don't know what sources you're using. There is a decline in industrial production, but for a few very important reasons. One is that in the Serbian economy there is a change in the structure of the economy. So, structural change in the economy in which the social sector is falling, and the private sector is growing. The private sector, which is not covered by statistics, is growing at a rate of 10%; that is the government's definition -- the private sector -- and that is Serbia's future. Serbia's future is not a social property, which is true to record a fall, and that is a structural change in Serbia. Secondly, Serbia is not, the model of Serbia's development is not a factory again (and that's your second argument you said somewhere), business losses and "First Five-year-old" as an example. The first five-year-old is failing, among other things, because she lost regional markets that were lost by a policy that was led in the 1990s. So, the losses of regional markets, and the dimensioning of factories in such a way as to cover these regional markets and 10 years of Serbia's isolation from the world and the region, have affected that not only "The First Five-year-old" but also a bunch of other firms have lost their ability to realise their production on the market and that what some Central-Plan thinks they should produce that they can produce. It can't. Simply, the market recognises what is right and requires the product to be verified by quality and price. I don't think you recognize it, and you're transferring responsibility to us for something we didn't participate in, but rather, and it's a positive part of the story, the Serbian government is trying in its modest budget, which is how international organisations call us about subsidy policy, that for 44 companies in Serbia who lost their markets, in which it is possible to recognize the added value in terms of profit and business opportunities, as you know, from the flag to the Bor, in the time ahead of us restructuring provides space on the market. The subsidy policy is not the long-term policy of the Serbian government, but the possibility of them being able to exist on the market. Just two or three more things. I don't know how you got to that, probably serious analysts, so the exporters don't like the course. See what the structure of imports in Serbia is, so you will see that investment equipment has taken huge growth compared to the previous period, and the rate of export growth is 20%. So 20% is growing exports to Serbia. Someone's gonna say it's a lot, someone's gonna say it's a little bit. It's not enough and we need to reduce the trade deficit, but again, for the very reason I teach it at the university, the trade deficit is one of the segments of the balance of payments. For one country's stability, the balance of payments is crucial. I don't want to bother the citizens of Serbia with theories on what one means, and what another means, but I think it's good to know that when someone here brings out certain data, and how to understand what they're talking about, and not to throw out certain data here as if I don't know what they're doing in terms of exposure to citizens. I don't understand your comparison between Serbia and America, unless you compare us to being close by some quality, whether by size or by inflation. I don't know if you know that 120% of the price increase in 2000, that in September 2000 Mr. Seselj affected that the price increase in September was 30%, when prices were released in certain segments of the commodity market, and that the price control was 70% in the goods sector. Well, you see the economy we're talking about when you're talking about the character of the market economy and what we're talking about. Today, the situation in Serbia is that we had that only in the energy segment and only in the segment for a particular type of bread remains a certain kind of granting consent, or control. Everything else is a liberal system of prices, and we today have single-digit inflation in Serbia, with a very precise dynamic of matching price growth in the coming period. So we expect it to fall to the level of the United States in three or four years. As for social growth, I have already said, you say minus 5% for Serbia, 2% for America, that I still disappoint you, because it seems that we will have a positive growth in the social product and that, as the only country in transition, we have had in the first two years, and here is the third consecutive, positive rate of growth of the social product. Let me tell you, a propo donor conference, and without donor conferences, which we had in 2001 (18 November) is scheduled in Brussels to have a conversation with donors again, but now 4,200,000 euros are scheduled for Serbia, and 2,200,000 is agreed, in a way that projects are under way. I've made a very precise list of what it is. When talking about what's going on in Serbia, I see this as not a report or a result, it doesn't matter what it's called, it's my role here to present what was done by the government, why and how I make an argument about trust, a version of mistrust to the Serbian government. My role as Minister and Representative of the Government is to speak precisely about what has been done and to confirm that there is much that has been done in Serbia, that there is more that could have been done. For this very reason, about the credibility of the international community, I don't know if you've heard the news -- for 2005, Belgrade is scheduled to host the annual assembly of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in one serious competition, just as a confirmation of Serbia's credibility for what is ahead of us. In the end, since you said something else that was very interesting, because there were very antagonist interpretations. You said you've been listening to me talk about donations for months. That's very good to hear, because I also heard from your colleagues that they don't know anything about donations, so I'm only making one syntax on that subject -- if they listened to me, and they don't know anything, I'm letting you figure out why that is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33977	Right on line, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33978	Maybe we don't hear from each other. There's a difference, Mr. Pittice, but I know it does exist. In that building where you work, ask around people, there's more people who work there, they know me, and they can tell you what the topics and areas of my interest are. I'm not as much of a layman for the economy as you've tried to introduce me. But, well, since you're talking about good results, let me read a little something that some institutes have written in which you've been working as a part-time advisor, your godfathers or your friends or this expert group of governments. Let's just say, I used Izit's data. He says this: business climate - bad; results - devastating. In which areas, sectors: production, foreign trade, employment, standard. Furthermore, economic policy characteristics are now going: large tax burdens, poor credit conditions, unrealistic dinar course, indifference, no funding for reproduction, both current and development, no direct investment. How have the privatisation funds been spent? It's not business flows, it's consumption. Investments in infrastructure facilities are now being announced. The effects of privatisation, in companies where it was carried out, above all, have come to terms with slowed economic function, and where privatisation is planned: apathy and the expectation of what will happen to them. Let's move on: human production - fall; producer prices, and what little they do, grow; prices in retail trade -- rise, but slow, because it's low purchasing power; cost of life - constant growth; foreign investors don't place capital because of political and economic risk, because the affair is catching up with the affair, and where the money is, no one lives knows. What is the demand for resources to work, what you just said, that it is growing -- constant decline, both domestic and imports. Reproductive material - drop. What do you make industrial products with? The goods of broad consumption - on a very low level, and it is low because the purchasing power of citizens is bad. Physically, you want to hear it, Mr. Pittice, because you're following it? In addition to electricity, gas and water, all other products are subject to a fall. In agriculture: wheat - minus 39, corn - is estimated minus 12, cattle purchase - also decline. Please, these are your results and talk about it. Do not talk about the termological meaning of certain concepts.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33979	The word is, according to the promoter's right, the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33980	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pitić, we have, even when the first DOS government was formed, been unfavourable, and Mr Seselj has on several occasions, and at that time, particularly, potentiated the needlessness, the lack of the existence of a ministry where you are headed, because such a single ministry existed in the SRJ and today exists within the state community of Serbia-Montenegro, which means that you are just needlessly spending money on your ministry by taxpayers. Only in the budget this year you have planned some 35 million to travel. And then, at the budget projection this year, we told you that we just can't imagine what you're going to spend all that money on and whether it's possible that you're going to be on a plane all the time, flying around the globe, because for that money, you could just be in the air for 360 days. Secondly, as a professor, you said something that might be a lapus, but I don't think so, and you said we have a positive growth in social product. I'm asking you to explain, at least to your students, you don't have to, to me, what kind of negative growth is that? Secondly, I make an excellent distinction between social gross product and social product, and I assume you, as a university professor, know what the difference is. Since Mr. Seselj mentioned you today in The Hague and one of your assistants, Dražić, as a partner in that Lazarevic lawyer's office, who, behold, dared to go to The Hague, although Vojislav Seselj did not call him, nor did he wish as a lawyer, in violation of his and his legal code, one soul sold; it is additional to your soul, you can see with whom you are cooperating. He said you were a minister in the criminal DOS government. But okay, let's get back to those things that they say life means. The cost of domestic reproductive materials, expressed in prices, in dinars, increased by two years; labour costs, expressed through wages, regardless of the number of workers, increased fantasticly; electricity costs are three to four times higher. Everything that's imported seems, in that case, fantastically cheap. In such conditions, the net exporter, therefore, the exporter, who exports more than he imports, simply cannot earn anything. Imports have become attractive. Imports are making fantastic profits, and exports have been becoming more debilitative, which is the general conclusion of all those who are engaged in any economic activity, especially abroad. Imports increased 32%. This year we will not yet reach the level of exports from 1998. It's absolutely to be expected. Exports dropped 50% in 1999 due to the bombing. That was a logical consequence. So, the statistical base, even if we're looking at 2000, is extremely low. It dominates imports of wide-ranging goods, while the import of equipment is marginal for the sake of productive investment and the launch of production and development. What hurts most in these trade unions that you didn't let on the streets of Belgrade today, but you kept them on Brank's bridge, so in New Belgrade, and throughout Serbia there are those who oppose this model of privatisation, robbery privatisation, I will dare read a fax that has arrived, which confirms that throughout Serbia citizens are protesting within the union or employees in general, from some businesses, which have been robbed. The fax comes from Canople to Somboro - "At the time of the meeting of the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called ". The National Assembly of Serbia, when the national militia beat the unions in the rain and the cold, also fought in Tkonoplja near Sombora with the scrupulous fight of DPP "Bačka" Čonoplje, with Vlahovic's "do-gooders", the private company DOO "Parmons" - Novi Sad, which recently recapitalised the company, worth $2,500,000, with its participation, the founding role of all 5,000 US dollars. The owner of this company, Veljko Momčilović of Novi Sad, and his assistants, with the help of the police, private security, seven armed civilians and the Somboro boxing club led by coach Dragan Vukic, tried to get the order of the Sombor Commercial Court to take over this company, in addition to the fact that against Kamenko Zoremski and so on. owner Veljko Momčilović and other assistants have already filed two criminal charges for causing damage and abuse in the economy, totaling 61,000,000 dinars. But in addition to all these facts, neither the Sombor Commercial Court nor the High Court of Commerce in Belgrade, in addition to a series of complaints by DPP lawyers "Bačka" Tkonopla, even addressing the Commission for the Monitoring of the Justice Ministry's work, Belgrade, do nothing to protect DPP'Bačka's workers. Unfortunately, this is about the same company whose accident was started by Milan Zoraj and Sinisa Kozlin, director and manager, who was already under discussion in the National Assembly of Serbia, and in connection with co-operation with the Lutra system, Mr Mihajlovic, where two teams from the DPP "Bačka" were overrun from 1997 to 2000, about 1.5 million marks. The same fates were similar companies from the surroundings of Cačka and Valjev, Belanovica near Čačka, the Diveci Slaughter and other lucky men who did business with the honestists of the Lutra system. Fortunately, with the correct police intervention and pressure of the people of Tkonoplje and the employees, this team left DPP "Bačka" Tkonopla, where there was a great danger of conflict with the wider and inconspicuous consequences". This is, therefore, an example and, behold, a call for Minister Vlahovic to submit a privatisation report and to convince the citizens of Serbia how good this privatisation is for workers. Although you have the impression that few trade unions have gone out on the streets, it's only because he's a little busy, and those who are out of work are no longer members of the union and can't demonstrate as such, and I'm convinced that everyone is very unhappy, which, of course, will express in the next presidential election, and then parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33981	The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic, followed by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, and Minister Goran Pitic, it is the order of reporting.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33982	I'd like to respond to a few facts here. It's a big deal in democracy that everyone can express themselves, of course, this home is a respected home where all opinions can be expressed. However, for esteemed MPs, and for our citizens, we still need to remind ourselves of a few things. Those who talk about the economy today, who are slowing down what a social product is, what is positive and what is negative growth, are those who are at an open moment, and very often in a secret coalition over 10 years have led this country to one situation, which is the following. Today, lessons are given by those and those who support them. In 1989, Serbia had 30 billion of this gross domestic product. You just yell. Not all of us will remember what condition you left Serbia. Our citizens haven't forgotten that. They did not forget Serbia, which was in the dark for 78 days, because you destroyed the EPS, because they were making bonds to pensioners and the EPS didn't get electricity. At the last minute, you abolished the regulations, those who talk today about the market economy, and they kept the prices of all the supplies under administrative control and then released them. There's an inflation of 113% in 2000, and today, when it's 8%, they say it's a lot, and they left us with three-digit inflation! They left us with baby accessories that were two years late! They left us with agricultural pensions that were three years late, left us with a budget deficit that was hidden in secret accounts and stock reserves, which was 15% of gross domestic product. They left us in a situation where we had laws that didn't apply. We had debts that weren't recorded, down to the debts of the Chinese, which a governor signed on one of the tissues, at an airport in Frankfurt. Yeah, it was that state and for the last two and a half years, three, we did what was realistically possible. Today, Serbia is the country that has made the most progress in reforms in the last three years, which is recognised by all relevant institutions. The one that had real growth in our economy, at least 4% in the last three years, she and 2000, we found Serbia that attracted exactly $25,000,000 in investments. That was your score. The figure was $165,000 in 2001, in 2002 625,000 and this year $1400,000, the Balkan record! We found an EPS that was in absolute chaos. For ten years, nothing has been invested in the remont. There was a social policy over something that was supposed to be a key pillar of our economy. We wondered how we would survive that winter, and thanks to the generosity of the international community, but also to the great effort of our citizens, we are able to, in the year when there was no electricity in Italy, when there was one moment of electricity, in Greece, in Kosovo, this year, the energy system of Serbia has been through the hardest winter since three years and the worst summer we have had in the last 40 years, without a single hand. It is the success of this government absolutely, and not only that, in another year or two, the EPS will again be an exporter of electricity as it once was; and not only that, but we will have a situation when the European Union's initiative, the Balkans, already today, shows that Serbia will be a stabiliser in the energy system of the entire region. After a suicide policy you've led, we're bringing Serbia back to where it was supposed to be. And I was also so proud when it was yesterday, and I don't know how many times, Serbia being shown as a model and as a place where all those processes that should take place are legally valid and where Belgrade, Serbia and our state union will take that place of leaders that could never reach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33983	I beg you, MPs, so that we can hear each other, and whoever gets their word and who has the championship in the Rules of Procedure, with full awareness that the debate on trust in the Government is the heart of Parliament and that it causes these reactions that... Just to be clear, the ministers were looking for a word, and the promoter and Mr. Angelkovic, so I have equal calls, the right to proposer is right, everyone has the right to get a word when they ask. So that's what I'm going to be asking you to do during this session, members of the government, Prime Minister and Proposer, but it's parliamentary that the Proposer has a championship over the members of the government. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, then Minister Pitic, Minister Vlahovic and then in turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33984	Dear fellow MPs, I named Vlahovic, Djelic answered. Now that it's reported, let's talk a little bit about these effects of the Ministry of Finance, and at all what this government, or the politics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has led us to. That few people besides these political connotations hear someone who is not an expert, but who is professional enough to follow what experts and experts in Serbia think about everything that happens on the economic scene in Serbia. In one economic policy that came to me, but mostly I try to follow everything written there, all those who consider it necessary to contribute as experts to another, or a different and better economic policy and to warn the government, especially this expert part of the government, as it calls itself, that last year we did not repay $343 million in debt as planned; we paid off, beware, of 343 just 43 million; and then next year we had to pay back 460 million dollars, and the National Bank prayed last year that the IMF would not return some 25 million. That must be some big problem when they're begging for $25 million, and they're boasting that our foreign exchange reserves are over $2.5 billion, that's what I'm saying for the past year. This year we won't pay as much as expected, and that's for sure. Obligations to the London Trustees Club are increasing, so we're now asking where the banks are. We can't write off those obligations, can we? The World Bank and the IMF can reprogram our debt, but they don't give a write-off, neither do they, nor do they want to give it. At the same time, the external trade deficit is growing, and for the following year foreign direct investment is forecasted to be reduced unless we sell another attractive company that remains, such as Elektroprivreda. That's why we didn't put that law on your agenda, just so you know, because we don't let you sell it out like that. Although capital is cheaper on the world market now, we'll get loans on increasingly difficult terms, and why? Because we're growing external debt and we're a risky area. I guess that's pretty clear for everyone and that's what you're counting on. What's worse, the burden of paying off the foreign debt will go to future generations, as our politicians wherever they can take credit and some rags, not thinking about what will happen after them, because you gentlemen think that after you are the flood, and we who are seriously involved in this business think that one government will leave, another government will come, all governments are changing. We have to think long-term and the generations that are coming, because only Tito worked like you, he owed himself, mostly some credits that they gave him to carry out his policy here and to secure his positions, and now they're giving you loans, though, all the less, because they're not crazy enough to give you credit if the foreign trade deficit is getting worse and if you're sure you can't get those loans back. What exactly was the state supposed to do? We should've insisted on war damage, even if we didn't get those 100 billion war damages, let's agree that they just wouldn't give us, they're stronger, they can be, we could've beaten the debts. None of you have asked those who, within the NATO Pact, participated in the aggression against the SRJ to at least those 11 then, and now for 13.5 billion debt to somehow break down and finally move forward. Why don't you do it, why don't you insist on it when all international rights are on our side, neither we nor the citizens of Serbia can be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33985	Minister Goran Pitic has the word. Replications, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this debate is just showing that sometimes we can come up with a proposal from those who are proposing this topic on the agenda, and now we've heard an original idea to ask for war compensation of 100 billion, it's an interval -- a dollar or a euro. It would be very good if we first asked no one in this way as others ask us for war damage by even bigger numbers than you mentioned, that we should ask others, and that would be very good first of all. Secondly, I think that you continue to live in a world that is isolated and out of international flows, with an unrealisticity that really doesn't make sense to fool the people of Serbia about what's real, what's possible and what can be done. So far, this is the only proposal I've had in these two days to hear and I think it should be presented in a way that shows the fundamental unreality of this proposal. And that's true, it could have been tolerated before, because the bombing was over earlier. Second, a little bit about formalities and a little about substances. A little bit on formalities, since I realized that this debate is primarily based on interpretation of some economic concepts and economic terminology. That works for me. I had a chance to say something about the essence and what I think Serbian citizens should hear when it comes to what the Serbian government is doing and what it was doing. If you insist on formalities, let's get back to the economy. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, termology, since you wanted to help me freshen up some of my elements, what I know, what you defined as an economic history that covers a lot more than you probably wanted to present. Positive growth is a very valid term in economic theory, as there is negative growth and zero growth, just around terminology so there is no confusion when we communicate later. That's why you warned me in that context, that I should remind you. Gross social product and social product - there is essentially no difference here. So, gross social product, don't be surprised, but it's not bad to hear because when you get a second chance to represent that concept, you're going to realize that if you use what I suggest, you're going to take advantage of that opportunity to say the right thing. The gross social product is translated from English to what is used in Serbian statistics as a social product, and then it is classified in different ways by whether it is something that includes some other elements, depreciation, etc., but that I am not sorting it now. That's why I'm telling you, since you warned me, that I'm telling you that about formalities and terminology, we can do that too. My suggestion is that instead of learning and interpreting from the economy, we go back to the substance, and that's what we have today, what it is that we inherited. A colleague Djelic listed some of the things that we inherited, and in that context, a little bit of interpretation, and also dealing with the key topic, I agree with you, it is a question of debt, external debt and internal debt. It's not true that we have a situation that's difficult for us to borrow. On the contrary, in our environment there are many institutions, organizations, banks that are willing and how this government can take billions of loans. This government has taken a more difficult option, to take care of the way it takes loans from abroad, that all these loans are spent in a productive way and not to be burdened by future generations, because I am already experiencing myself as the last generation that was once the future generation when the loans we need to repay were taken. When we look at future generations, it's those generations we won't leave behind those debts. On the contrary, We reduced them from what We found. If you're looking at me so curiously, let me explain to you, 12 billion and 200 million was a debt, which has now been reduced by three billion with an additional 15% reduction in the Paris Club when we finish our tour with the IMF; with a variant of the reduction of the London Club, with a variation of this Chinese, perhaps, credit, which I didn't even know ended up on the wipe of someone in Frankfurt the way it ended. As I said earlier, I would like to know how this money was spent and why a loan was taken from a partner who could have helped us much better than in a way that was misused. Now we have to justify ourselves and look for ways to reprogram it or find a solution for both commercial and government debt. These are the things that are substances, but that substance is essentially inherited and dramatically placed at the moment when we took over, and we can talk about all of this data that Mr Krasic listed, and I say again, I recognize the Russian system with you. The physical volume of industrial production, so it's from Russian times. It was produced to produce rather than market-based realization. There is currently value added to the social product in Serbia. These are structural changes in Serbia. True, many companies have problems in Serbia, but it is also true that many companies have an increase in added value in the new ownership structure. It is what is the character of the current happening in the Serbian economy and that is what must be the leader, no matter what government it will be. It has to be a guideline for the reform direction, whoever runs this country from the corner of the government. Normally, it's always an interesting topic about the travel costs that the ministry provided for. I must say, at the time of the planning, all the activities of the Federal Ministry of Economic Relations were foreseen from January 1st, and this is a complete bilateral, complete communication with all international organisations in the world, and there are 147 of them to be transferred to the level of the Republic's resolution ministry and to have that communication set up. Since this has been moved because of the Constitutional Charter, etc., it has been realised with only a few percent. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, since you like numbers, and I very much respect that you are preparing for these meetings, but let me tell you that the entire government spent 11 million dinars in nine months this year. You look at what it means, and in the meantime it doesn't tolerate any segment of our communication with the world. I want to tell you, and by that, since you have asked a question for the existence of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, it is understandable to me, although I see that the Prime Minister is also making jokes about existence, but from another context. Your context I understand. This ministry deals with European integration, international organisations, co-operation with international institutions that provide Serbia with necessary donations and development assistance. Given that this was not possible at all in the 1990s and given that I do not recognize the fundamental concept of what you're saying about how you see and where you see that the government's work is essentially wrong, then I really understand why you think there is no reason or no reason for this ministry to exist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33987	The right to a replica, the right to proposer, the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, will have the word by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33988	Mr. Minister, on my claim that you're getting harder to get credit, you said there's a lot of banks in our immediate environment that are willing to lend credit to the government and the state. We know there are, but at 24.6% interest. You can take all the credit you want, but the loans need to be paid back. How do we get them back? You didn't explain it to us. You have some game numbers, and I'm telling you nicely, you should have insisted on beating up your debts, and you don't know there's a war compensation suit and that suit represents Tibor Varada. If the government doesn't know that, then we're out of here really shitty and we don't have to prove anything about this government that she's incapable of running this country's politics. Besides, I'm just going to quote Mr. Batic, and you know what we said about Mr. Batic when we discussed his trust, but yesterday he told a fantastic truth. He said that you had welcomed Shredder in a way he hadn't seen since the time of Joseph Broz. Now, this Schrader came here to allegedly talk to some businessmen, and he didn't bring with him any businessmen from his own country. Who talked to him? What were you talking about? What kind of support did he have to express to you at the moment when the government is about to drop you? You'd better cancel that visit, because there was absolutely no purpose for his arrival, or at least we didn't see it, or you didn't know to tell us through the means of public information. Mr. Pittić, I'm returning you to theory, but I'm really giving this information to all the students of the Faculty of Economics right now. If any of you fail your exam, at the second year of economic college you learn that, the theoretical question is whether there is a social gross product and a social product, which goes into one, and what doesn't exist in the other, tell the professor to contact Mr. Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33989	The word has the Minister of Business and Privatisation Aleksandar Vlahovic, then MP Zoran Angelkovic. (Zoran Angelkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. First, I ask you to listen to me before the minister speaks. I see, MP, that you have changed your request for a reply to the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to listen to me. All participants in the debate, members of the government and the Prime Minister shall have the right to speak equally whenever requested and proposed whenever requested. The MP has the right to replica when mentioned and gets it right after the speaker. (Zoran Angelkovic, from place: Replication to Djelic's presentation. ) You will receive the right to reply during the afternoon session, and the MP Zoran Krasic. You will be entitled to a replica after Minister Aleksandra Vlahovic's right to not wait for a word for more than 25 minutes. It does not say in the Rules of Procedure, but there will be many times in the debate for both MPs and presidents and ministers to appear. Thank you, Minister, for your patience, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33990	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Chairman, I know that some of the facts are very painful for you, given what we are talking about here today the other day. We're talking about what the government has done since 2001. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation have not told the truth for a moment. It is true that we had a billion and 200m euros of foreign direct investment this year. It's true that we had a privatization without having an affair. It is true that those involved in the privatisation did not have any objections later. Neither those who have won nor those who have lost. I'll remind you that we recently had the end of the privatisation of the tobacco industry Nis and the tobacco industry Vranje. Let me remind you that these are the two most successful transactions in all of Central Europe, in all transition countries. I'll also remind you that in 2001 we inherited a market that was characterized by smuggling. Of import cigarettes, 90% were smuggled, there was no regulation. Cigarettes were in the hands of the inherited mob. And what did the government do in the meantime? She passed the tobacco law, thanks to you, because you voted for the law, defined long-term excise policy, established institutions and eventually privatised. Today DIN and DIV work with the highest level of capacity utilisation, and I will remind you that in 2000 they worked with 50% capacity utilisation. It's the best result in the economics, what the government has done. And today on the tobacco market, they're not smugglers, they're not suspicious names, they're two of the world's most renowned multinational companies, Philip Morris and British American Tabaco. That's the result of the government. This government has nothing to hide from, no reason to hide. She's not talking about Swedish villages, about fast tracks in Serbia, not talking about Serbia to Tokyo, to Japan, not about the dreams of the celestial people, but about what she did. He says very responsibly - it's true, there was a fall in the volume of industrial production. Nobody slows it down, because the goal is not to produce supplies, to store, to have that communist administrative type of economy, but to have an economy that produces profits, not losses. Yesterday, it was said that in 2002 there was a drastic loss reduction, measured in 2001, which is only a continuation of the trend that exists from the moment the new government was formed. In 2003, our analysis shows that the decline in overall losses is present in the Serbian economy. Also, do not forget the private industry and the volume of production in private enterprises, which are statistically not covered. This part of the private industry, i.e. private property in the industrial sector, is already more than 25% today, and there is a 10% growth. So when we spoke the statistical system was imperfect. It's imperfect because it doesn't include one part of the economy and because we end up getting twisted data. Quality is something that characterizes the market economy, not quantity. I know it's hard for you to accept, to understand, because you've come out of another ideological mile. You came from another ideological way of thinking, but these are postulates of modern economy, a market economy followed by the government. One more thing, it seems to me that what most characterizes the government is openness, preparedness to talk to everyone, with all political parties, not only from the position, but also from the opposition. When key laws were passed, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, as well as other ministries, had talks with all parliamentary groups. You had a chance to say what your objections were and you know very well that much of the amendments to the laws were adopted. The government is also actively talking to the unions, talking to all three unions. He does not have his state union sitting on the ruling party's main board, but has three equal participants in the dialogue. If you bought today's newspaper "Today" in the middle, you can find out what the Minister of Economy and Privatisation was talking about only three days ago with all three trade unions about all the important issues. You know very well that at the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation there is a group that is particularly responsible for having at least one week, and it is common twice, meetings with the ministries, because we are aware that economic transition cannot be carried out without the active participation of those who participate in it. It's mostly unions. What we don't want to accept is pulsism, any color, any kind of political pulsism. As of tomorrow, everything will be better, and I hope you've forgotten when it was worse, while we're in power. As of tomorrow, everything will be better, the union population that exists, let's just change the government and stop privatisation, without any arguments that this privatisation gives bad results. Responsibly, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation does not have any cases that, after privatisation, are worse than before the privatisation process. And to say, in the end, it's nice to hear the rushes of honesty and sincere self-critics in this assembly, even those who suggest a debate about the government's trust. We had little time to hear that the company mentioned was robbed between 1997 and 2000, when you were sitting in the government. Why didn't you stop the robbery? It was literally read by Mrs. Pop-Lazic in a telegram. Please, you were in power and why didn't you protect the DPP "Buck" from Canople? Why didn't you put criminals in jail who robbed the company, if that's exactly what you just informed us about. Unfortunately, we didn't get a chance to hear self-critics when that self-critic thing was supposed to come. Today we have a privatization that is public. There are no companies, including those of 3 euros and those of 100m euros, there is no privatisation that took place outside of auction sales, outside of tender sales or outside the Belgrade Stock Exchange. Competition equally applies to everyone. Once again, in that competition, the buyers who participate decide who will be the winner, and that means the one who makes the best offer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33991	The word has the People's MP Zoran Angelkovic, right on the line. I ask the MPs to wait, given that the requests for a replica relate to the statements of ministers, and the MPs seeking a replica and members of the Government are, according to the Rules of Procedure, in a completely equal position. The fact is we started at 11.20, so ten more minutes of patience won't hurt anyone, so I'm asking you to listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33992	Let's get one thing straight here first. As far as we're concerned, as MPs, we don't find it difficult to sit here and discuss government trust for three months, or listen to ministers. But we should at least be in some part of the equal so that three ministers can't speak in a row without us being able to respond to the replica. Now I could answer three lines, the replica of Mr. Finance Minister, and Pitic, so Vlahovic, and that would mean nine minutes. If you want to cover us so we can't talk, then say, it's no problem that we know in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33993	People's MP, you have the right to report to each minister's replica. I'm saying that according to the Rules of Procedure, the right to receive words in the case of replication and members of the Government is equal. So, you're right if you want to put together time for replicas or you want to answer it concesively.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33994	Mr. Djelic here, of course in the absence of arguments, went with such an aggression that we thought he was going to skip these microphones and come after us, but somehow the microphone stopped him and I think it was more stopped by the workers in front of this building the other day when they strike. They best explained to him how the finance ministry works. I got the hat, but you got something else and it was seen. That's why they couldn't even get close to the congregation yesterday, because you got something else and it's the best part about it. Just a few questions you've raised here about those ten years. Here's what those in the Colubary surface spears say about how and how they relate to that attitude of yours: "Yesterday in the afternoon we had the opportunity to make sure that the authorities used a pendrek to preserve their positions." They're appalled by the fact that you've been brought to power, and now you're doing it. As far as electricity is concerned, the same argument was used by UNMIK in Kosovo and Metohija when it comes to electricity. He says it was ruined, it didn't work, and that electricity industry in Kosovo and Metohija and it worked here and during the bombing there was electricity. Now there are two hours of power in Kosovo, and here they say she hasn't worked for five years. Serbia's electricity worked and Serbian citizens paid that electricity at a price they could handle. Today, as you know, electricity in Serbia is more expensive than in America, and you understand that. I'm talking about whether these Serbian citizens can handle that price of electricity and that's the basic question. We're talking about the position of citizens, whether those citizens with that price of electricity and with those revenues at all can pay. It's just like when you talk about gasoline, it's got gas and it costs one dollar. Yeah, but look at the pumps at how many liters of Serbian citizens are buying -- two liters, three liters, for a table, two hundred dinars -- and look at it for a little bit on how much it is. When it comes to borrowing, it is true that ten years from now, there was no borrowing. You're saying that the only borrowing was China and a slave loan with "Gas", a slave credit barter arrangement, but, gentlemen, please explain that you've been in charge for three years three billion. Explain how we will repay those three billion and how the citizens of Serbia will repay three billion in three years. That's the basic question. Are you going to repay these loans or leave some future generations to repay those loans? I understand Mr. Vlahovic, because he understands it best and he is the longest in power. He had Tito's scholarship and then, from that time on, he was assessing the value of capital in the stock sale of companies to workers, which, of course, was better, and then he praised it and it was good. I think it was better than it is now, and I'm convinced that he was trying to work on that model so that the workers wouldn't be happy and don't strike like this, but I don't understand how you're talking about how you're in charge of three billion, and on the other hand you're talking about it's bad that you've made a barter arrangement. It's bad that this barter arrangement with the Chinese isn't resolved until the end, more specifically, that it's not secure that IMT produces tractors and that it's not continued in that way, but it's not bad that barter arrangements were taken. The previous government was buying out debts on cheap loans, that's true, but it wasn't in debt. You're the only thing you're doing that you're in charge of, and that's the main problem with this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33995	National MP Zoran Krasic is waiting for the replica, so Ministers Djelic and Vlahovic. Please, we've started off with a great delay due to the lack of MPs in the O.R. The session simply makes sense if the lines of replicas about what the ministers have said, and MPs have objections, end before the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33996	I have volunteered for the replica for the presentation of one minister, however, others have completed this minister by interpreting how it suits you, but I must confirm what the government's representative said at the beginning of the debate, that the government has really bad marketing, because today we have tried to convince you that it is not good at the time of the election campaign to attend a kind of euthanasia of DOS for this speaker. We haven't been able to convince you, and since you've decided to execute that euthanasia, execute it. It's just enough to get you a microphone and everybody's clear. It's said -- those who talk about economics, representatives of some Russian system, etc. There's a Russian school representative in this room, but it's a modified school that comes from a university in Germany, and it's located in Constanta. This is a philosophical movement followed by Marks's thought and the ultimate effect of that thought is that we have recently received comrades in the National Assembly, comrades of non-sickness, not socialists. The Socialists have nothing to do with this, so that termology that one professor spoke of is just a matter for you, it's in your statistical reports, and termological and methodological. About the 30 billion gross social product, which was also this optimal product for this space, is true that it was 30 billion and has been in constant decline since 1992. It was somewhere around ten billion, but under the conditions of blockade, sanctions, bombing, probably that social product couldn't have been bigger. This was contributed by another man and another party who sought the revaluation of social capital in 1994 and 1995, when they annulled the full privatisation, and then 97% of our economy was privatized and reduced to 3%. It's this Marxist school, but now we have neither state nor social property as an ideological concept, but a public interest, a public matter. If someone can tell someone not to enforce the laws, so you don't enforce your laws. Take the Broadcasting Act. What about the television subscription? In January of the month, according to the law, RTS informed citizens. Why don't you get a subscription? Why don't you charge? He hitchhiked all the law. Who's the one who can be above the law? Those from RTS to the government for money at Zarko Korać, not to ask for a month to hear that the National Assembly did not respect that the amendments to the law were put on the agenda. We won't. Why? You have the best reform law. They're all your reform laws. All the best laws, and apply your best laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33997	This concludes the session in the afternoon and continues at 3:10 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, members of the government, please take your seats, to begin the afternoon session of the First Session of the Second Regular Session. It is on the agenda to vote non-confidential to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and on a proposal from the SRS parliamentary group. To determine whether we have the quorum needed to work, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system. I find that we have the quorum needed to work and continue the session in the afternoon. Ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Finance and Economy Minister Bozidar Djelic (not present) and Minister of Economy and Privatisation Aleksandar Vlahovic reported. The word has Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u33999	I, if anyone remembers the afternoon debate, wanted to give some information about the questions asked by the MPs. The company "Bačka" from Tkonoplje is mentioned. Right now, let me say that the company is not in privatization and that the privatisation is not finished there. The privatisation initiative was launched in late 2002. However, due to the incompletely delivered prospectus, the Agency has not issued a public invitation to hold an auction, and all that is stated in the afternoon session of the Assembly is in fact the realisation and decision-making by trade courts on the basis of a lawsuit between the two legal entities. Therefore, any problems that exist in the DPP "Bačka" from Tkonoplje, these are not problems that are in any way related to the privatisation process. Second, one speaker said I was a scholarship student for Titus's trust fund. Exactly, as I was a scholarship student at the University of Belgrade and the Faculty of Economics. Exactly, as I was a wolf in primary and secondary school and a generation student at the Faculty of Economics and behind that, it worked, not in political bodies, or organisations, and every year, paying my taxes and delivering orderly information about my assets, as I have done now, fulfilled my obligation under the Law to the tax procedure. The sad thing to say is, when someone comes out for this pay phone, they call you, someone who has nothing to say about his biography, about his school, about where he worked, what he did, except he's been pulling back from his youth days to this day by political parties, various political functions, without any day of experience, doing a real job. It's really sad when you're criticized by someone who doesn't have the elemental knowledge of the privatisation process, first of all, or elementary school, so he can even talk about this topic. By the way, I'm calling on this gentleman to come out and say his biography, just like I told the whole public. Chancellor Schroeder's visit is indeed a historic event for our country, because, I remind you, the Chancellor of Germany has not come to Serbia in the past 20 years. The visit, with the right and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and, on the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia has given the highest importance, because it is known that until the moment that politics in this country and the state began to run diletaries Germany was a key ally of Serbia, i.e. the former Yugoslavia. Therefore, we are legally and in the future counting on friendly and economic ties with Germany and, together with the German government, the Council for the improvement of Serbia and Germany's economic relations was established. You know that one of the biggest investments in the privatisation process has just arrived from Germany, which is the purchase of "Merime" by Henkel. Therefore, only in the last few days in our country were Chancellor Schroeder, Prime Minister of Denmark Raskundsen and other presidents, and there were several other high-level visits. This best speaks of the reputation this government has in the international public. It is the best confirmation that one of the basic promises made by DOS is that our country returns to its place, which means that it is in society with the world's most developed countries, to be politically respected by the most significant factors in the world, not only large countries, but international financial organisations. These are the best confirmations that this goal is fully met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34000	The right to reply, MP Zoran Krasic, to present Minister Vlahovic, and MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, the authorised representative, the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34001	I think it's a much nicer discussion when we use the right to replicate. There's nothing wrong with someone using Tito's fund's resources to get schooled. It was a common way of schooling 20 years ago, as well as young self-control workers, no one here criticized it. I don't know why you found it to resent the SRS. They don't bother your high school at all... (Alexander Vlahovic: I didn't mention you. ....................................................................................................... But probably, given the school's preparation of the prime minister, your schools are being questioned. They're so low-level when above you can be the man with the school supplies that some inspectors lose their jobs for. So high school inspectors are losing their jobs at the state administration, and the prime minister probably has that school thing. I didn't say this for either the prime minister or the inspector, but when you're celebrating your school prep, you have to find some measure to not insult someone. It's very dangerous to insult the Prime Minister. You're still just the minister, you're in his cabinet, as you come and go, take care. It's a good thing you paid your taxes. It's for all praise. You saw it, and you got a round of applause. But I'm surprised that you didn't participate and help the counselors to understand that taxes should be paid. Today we're reading, one says - I'm sure I'm getting criminal charges, I haven't paid my taxes. The Minister of the Interior also needs to tell us how far they've come with this, where they're from, where they're meant for money, and we know that they're meant, as a secret fund, for you ministers. But it doesn't matter, we'll hear about it. You said the knowledge of privatisation. We had great knowledge of privatisation here to hear in 1994, when with 97% of the privatised industry, privatised social property in Serbia, it came to 3% with one move. You know who did it, Serbia knows who did it. You say Schrader wasn't that old for so many years. The only good thing about last night was that he didn't come on planes. We know him, and in 1999 he was on planes coming here. But in order not to remind you, these are the facts, the citizens all know well, I have to remind you of one thing: and at a time when this country was run by diletaries, both before 1980 and before 1990 and before 2000, Germany was the most important external trading partner of this area here. So when you talk about who he respects, who he's working with, you have to keep an eye on those notor facts, so you don't turn out to be much bigger diletaries than you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34002	The word is from MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34003	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the method clearly chosen by the complete government is that it shows its results in such a way that the top, that is, the primary result of the normal state in which we live, is a normal at least as normal as all other European and world states are, and that is why it is normal to suffer from all normal diseases that are suffering in other normal countries. The world's disease, the prime minister said, is that citizens have far less money than they need, it's a fact. It is normal, however, for citizens in Europe to have less money than they need to buy Mercedes, yacht, villa, but it is not normal for us citizens to have less money than they need to buy bread, milk and other needs, not to mention the complete consumption basket. The citizens are worse, as they will say here, but probably only those who sit in opposition benches. Therefore, if we are making a short parallel, and what about the other citizens who are worse and who are said to be worse in the examination of public opinion, which is a good part that exceeds 50% of the electoral body. Are these abnormal citizens living in a normal state? The morning debate ended once, not recently seen euphoria, with ministers using tones with mytingas raises, and the finance minister preceded it, which is typical of the technology of obsessary democracy, which brings us back to the scene a virtual reality. We had it before, that we didn't understand how we didn't realize that we were as good as the television shows, though, now not so much the media, but apparently in the minister's statements there is that. I'm going to brief you on a brief political analysis, but I'm not going to describe the situation we're in. I'll come to that later when I talk about laws, reforms and individual ministries. I'm going to start with two questions -- why did we get institutional chaos instead of reform, and why did we get its parody and dictatorship instead of democracy? The democratic image of DOS members, and then new authorities, was reflected in three ways: firstly, on the basis of the primates of language over reality; secondly, by stressing the direct support of the international community, while ignoring that the power of the title of democracy, as well as the donations to support, does not win because it has established democratic institutions, because it is not, but primarily because it is primarily co-operative; thirdly, by systematic emphasising the opposite of Milosevic's regime, because it is so terrible that the new, opposing it cannot be undemocratic. These methods are recognizable because most DOSs are made up of former communist officials, practitioners defeated at the 8th session, or their children. The position of the DOS presidency is identical with the position of communist politburo, as the bearer of an effective government; instead of socialist, the programme is achieved by identical political technology, and when not functioning by the institutions of the system, but the government is concentrated in an inhomogenous politburo, then we have a quiet dictatorship and a chronic emergency and inhomogenicity of achieving the objectives set, the establishment of democracy and the rule of law. The conclusion -- no one seriously expects democratic reforms from this team in power, and when we add that the technology of crisis headquarters has left about 40,000 experts out of work because of ties to the past regime, it can only be measured by the cutting of technocrats in Serbia after the ban on liberals in 1972. Now let me tell you: this is not my analysis, it would be more radical, this analysis was published in the monthly political analyses of the Centre for Liberal Democratic Studies, whose editor-in-chief, Dr. Bosko Mijatovic, who was among the most important experts on macroeconomic issues, until recently at the very top of the Democratic Party, the creator of your economic programme, which, according to your own statement, you probably saw her, the party and formally left her in 2002 when it began to steal parliamentary mandates. There were decent people there. The other part of which explains why, among other things, he left the Democratic Party, where he talks about the late prime minister, since my notion of Christian morality allows me to talk about the dead, I won't read it, but you have him in the interview. It is likely that Mr. Bosko Mijatovic was one of those who, as you keep saying these days, was with us. Gentlemen, precisely because of those who were with you, and we were, though, in front of you on October 5th, and in the warm front of the December 2000 election, we promoted this programme, some of us know it, we were very thoroughly promoting it to the people in the south, and what we promised, should I remind you what it is, that's why we came out of DOS. Just some of these things, or what was to be done on the first day -- the first thing is to launch an initiative to change the Constitution; after three years we don't have it. Furthermore, a package of reform economic laws has been partially passed; anti-corruption law -- we don't have it; we also don't have a conflict of interest law; the electoral law -- here, is now in the proposal, but I don't believe it will succeed in reaching it. When it comes to anti-corruption law, Mr. Prime Minister gave me a good clagworth when face-to-face with Bojana Lekic told the report "Transparent International" that it was some house without references whose reports are not so important. Gentlemen, just to remind you that in the White Paper of Milosevic's power shared by the people in 2000, the same "Transparent International" gave an analysis of where we are on the list of corrupt countries at 94, and now we're at 106. Just to remind you that the Convention of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in the fight against corruption, which declared illegal corruption of foreign officials, came into force in 1999, following that convention, if we process the case of Janjusevic and Kolesar, so it comes out to international arbitration, and you know why and why the links, Sejela, "Popova" etc., then we'll break probably the bottom of this scale, and yet it's a reference...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34004	Are you using the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34005	Yeah, I'm using. That it is, however, a reference organisation, here, published this good newspaper "Economist", and that it is good for me is a guarantee that Minister Bozidar Djelic is in the publishing council and I am not telling you about the others. As for the conflict of interest law, we also don't have it, and it's necessary; if we did, today we probably wouldn't be discussing most of our ministers. I just jumped in to buy cigarettes and had to walk past one door on the left where it says "The Ministry of Business and Privatisation" and on the other side "Deloitte and Touche". I know that Mr. Vlahovic said he no longer has any relations with "Deloitte Touche", but he probably has some emotional when he put it at the same entrance as the ministry. There's a lot of these affairs, and I don't like to talk to that dictionary, unfortunately, that's our reality. When I am with Minister Vlahovic, the Ministry of Business and Privatisation is more of a privatisation or sale ministry, at least the Ministry of Business, because, apart from some subsidies and a few restructurings, it has mainly been done by selling under one law that is here for this speaker and Mr. Seselj said is good. But whoever implements it in both ways and with any strategy, without any national strategy, because first we hit the age of what brings profit and what is only worth, unlike some others you say that when measured by the revenues from privatisation that their success is two or three times smaller. Perhaps, gentlemen, but take Slovenia, which first placed small businesses and businesses with problems on the market, and for those companies that make money, it waited to raise their value, so that in 1989, it was worth $20 million, and it was recently sold for one billion, because it can only be sold once. If I didn't tell you about "Health", it's a similar pharmaceutical house, it was sold for 3.5m euros, it carried over 15% of the drug market in the former Yugoslavia, and the total cost of the company with the social programme and investment was less than the supply of raw materials, i.e. half-product in the "Health" itself at the time of sale. I don't know what it's called. Since I'm running out of time, there's a lot, mostly the Minister's presentations are very inspiring, so a man can talk for hours, but he doesn't know what to start from before, here, to get a little bit of finance. The fact is that DOS reduced external debt by a few billion through the write-off of the Paris Club's debt, but it compensated for new borrowings, so Serbia remains a highly in charge of the country. However, most of the debt, along with donations, ended in consumption, which slightly improved the standard, but not production. This is the result of the tendency to profit politically and to maintain this rule that was normal for, as in all countries that are in transition, as we promised after the first and after half of the second year, to go public again, to re-check the will of the electoral body, and not, as Mr. Mijatovic said, to kidnap the mandates. When it comes to economics, he literally said, and that's what his interview in "Sunday Telegraph" says, few who in DOS know what the state is, unfortunately. In order for these debts that have increased in the meantime to be serviced, we need an annual growth of 5% of gross social product, with an increase in exports by 17%, as agreed with the IMF. You look at the results of this year, so you'll understand how we're going to serve that debt. Unfortunately, as far as macroeconomic policy is concerned, and I'm a doctor of technical sciences, I'm not an expert, but I listen to experts who admit it, Bosko himself says it's overrated course of dinar; it doubles asphyxiation of our production, what's left of it, because in the gross social product, industrial production participates with less than 25%. In such a way that we are uncompetitive in exports not only because of excessive costs, but also because of the expensive dinar, we are not even competitive on the domestic market because of the excessive imports of foreign goods. It is not clear to you in Belgrade alone, otherwise Serbia has failed and died, sir. They didn't fail, and you know who; two weeks ago, I spoke to an entrepreneur who incredibly praised DOS, and you know what his motive was. He literally told me, before 2000, I was importing 60 tows, and now I'm importing 160 per month. It imports fruits and early vegetables, just what we need to be exclusive on the European market. This is a lack of an external trade strategy. That import lobby hara. About the lack of a real strategy of economic development, because that's the basis that can set us off, not to tell you. Now we've got some birthday girls again that we're going to hire a million with small and medium-sized enterprises, so they cut to 500 grand, with 180,000 companies. However, it is part of a strategy that most MPs did not have the opportunity to have in their hands. For that same strategy is my smallness and one of your MPs, and I'm not going to mention his name, on the Development Committee, I'd say this would be better written by my grandmother. It's a strategy without strategy. So I don't get into a situation where Mrs. Chairman's warning me about overtime, just to finish for a little while. When it comes to New Serbia, for us this government doesn't have a clear strategy for reform and economic development, there's no social consensus, look on the street what's going on, it never did, except for a short period of time when the Labour Law was discussed. Some unions went out right away. She lost the people's trust by failing to keep her promises. Unfortunately, your political consensus has also melted within the rest of the DOS coalition, because for a longer time, Mr. Democrats, you are the hostages of the rest of the coalition, or those parties whose appetites are much larger than the vans in which they can place their membership. It's time to recheck the will of the electorate. We are not for government makeup, but for new elections, because Serbian citizens have only one way to affect their fate, and these are elections. I warn them to take good care of who they'll round next time, I don't invite them to the old ones, not by chance, not by any chance, not by any means any new ones. Fifty governments have changed Italy, so it is one of the strongest countries in the economic region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34006	The word has an economy and finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic, so MP Bojan Pajtic and MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard an MP talking about finance. Since today is the moment to talk about what happened in the first thousand days, and also to talk a little bit shorter, but surely with the same precision, about what the plans are for the next thousand days, I would like to file a report, as I did on the board of directors, that in a few lines we are just talking about these finances and that economy. If we look at today’s situation, only the malicious or extremely uninformed can keep it worse today. On the contrary, today, not all unfortunately, but there is no social category, there is no place in Serbia, there is no large number of sectors of our economy where there is nothing better. Every word here is measured - something better. Isn't it something better for educators that we found with some 30 euros in monthly wages, they have 220 euros in primary and secondary schools today? Of course, seven times the salary, the rise in prices existed, but yet their salary is two to two and a half times higher in real terms. With an esteemed colleague, Gaš Knezevic, we had the opportunity to meet the school's directors and at this big rally, and it was clear in individual conversations that it was not the case that this year again, for the third year in a row and for the first time in 15 years, we have a school that works - children are going to school on September 1st and classes are being held for 45 minutes, and their teachers have one perspective that is demanding, which is reform, the deepest change that has existed in the last few decades. All of this, of course, would not have been possible if the material position of teachers in secondary and primary schools and a large number of repairs had not been improved, not only in Belgrade, but in almost all Serbia's places. Since we are real people, we must also talk about problems in this segment. It is true that this year only 20% of the estimated amount for the material costs is covered, and that is the next step. We must provide with those additional funds, which are already provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year, to further invest in the infrastructure of our primary and secondary education. If we're talking about pensioners, a million and a half citizens over the past decade have had incomes that were and how changing the category, at times that pension was a mark, a mark and a half, two marks. Many of them were digging through containers, there was great uncertainty, and especially for those who were unable to have any additional activity because of their health conditions. Today, my ministry and I are extremely proud that every pension has come on time, every 15 days our retired citizens can count on their belongings. Not only that, today is a pension, which is still not big, about 110 euros; if we compare ourselves with countries that have approximately the same wealth as us, Bulgaria and Romania (unfortunately, these are countries with which we can compare these dry figures today) provide their pension pensioners who are twice less - 50 euros in Bulgaria, and I know that from the Bulgarian Finance Minister I met yesterday. As for Republika Srpska, it is 80 marks, as they continue to count in stamps, it is 40 euros. So, for our citizens, this is not a small effort, and we are proud as the Government that Serbia is the country in Europe that today has the strongest solidarity between generations and the entire 14% of gross domestic product is dedicated to this purpose. It would not be possible, with payments to our pension system, for pensions to be at that level, so regular, that there are no additional donations and subsidies from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the relevant pension funds. This year it will be close to a billion euros, and next year we are planning a whole billion and 100 euros, so the pensioners have given back their dignity, minimally, that they can plan, that they know what they can count on. We are extremely proud of it and it is part of and one of the effects of our public finances. If we talk about paors or farmers, how many times do we start with wheat and so on, all these premiums were extremely irregular, they were late and they were paid in money that was defused in the meantime. The great pride of this government and this ministry is that they have broken one practice that existed not only in the 1990s but also in World War II, so for the first time the purchase of wheat has been paid out of real resources, not from something that was supposed to by some overwhelming theory of covering some stock reserves or funds with what would be money, but, as it turns out, the only way not to fool the peasants is to buy them the wheat with real money from the budget. That's why we're very proud to have bought out the wheat in a third year in a row in time, at the price that was the first time after World War II not only announced but was it the one that was paid at the time, during the summer, for its payment. And not only that, since this year we've crossed to two rates we've fulfilled it entirely. Of course, wheat is only one part of the story and we can also talk about the regularity of paying milk premiums, sugar beet or tobacco. For sugar tail, two-thirds of the advance is paid, so they need to invest. We wanted a lot more, but that's the measure of our financial leper. We were able to provide an additional 2.5 billion dinars, resuscitate the effects of droughts for our farmers, when it was the hardest. And we're proud of it. Take, for example, health workers - today a number of them, still dissatisfied with their material position, strike. We have heard of them and with this same union that is on strike today we have agreed, past the formal consent of those other two representative unions, to raise the coefficients last year and to admit that doctors as job holders, as some of the most important members of our society, should get a better salary and to abolish the one that has existed for a long time. We are extremely proud that the salary of a specialist doctor has gone from 8,000 to 21,500 dinars, which we will increase that salary in the months to come, so that the range from 2.44 to 3.5, and hopefully an even greater range that will respect the importance of work. But not just a doctor. What's agreed on is the same revaluation of the position of nurses and all those who are the health workers. This year, ladies and gentlemen, is the year of the biggest investment from the budget in the reconstruction of our hospitals, including half a billion dinars secured from the budget for the purchase of five appliances that will allow the radiation of our citizens who, unfortunately, have suffered from cancer. We found a situation that was extremely critical. Only one machine ever worked, and our fellow citizens had to stay awake in the middle of the winter in the cold hallways and the rest of the institutions where there was another machine that worked. We finally have five machines working on our territory again. It is only the beginning and thanks to the stabilisation of opportunities in our society I am very proud on behalf of this government and this portfolio to say that yesterday we signed an extremely favourable loan (and I will return to this 50m-euro debt issue, no less, and this is the first time - for the last 25 years that our health care comes up with significant funds and the entire 20 hospitals will come up with funds to rebuild their infrastructure. It'll be as visible as it is in the middle of next year. As for other categories of our society, for example, entrepreneurs, of course, for entrepreneurs, every tax is too high, given the situation we find, and we would like them to be even lower. However, these public finances were able to secure the lowest profit tax rate in Europe, with 14%, we are the most competitive in Europe. And not only that, at the end of last year this house also voted a series of incentives for investment and employment that are the strongest in Europe. For those investors who invest more than 10m euros and employ more than 100 workers we have a 10-year tax exemption, and for those who invest we have, for example, working, for small and medium-sized enterprises a reduction of 40% of the tax on the amount of investment in fixed assets and 20% for larger businesses. These are the strongest incentives for investment, and when we know that for the sum of the total gross salary for newly employed employers can deduct that entire amount of profit tax, that's a big deal. We have also increased investments that are possible in terms of helping some of the very important segments of our society. With 3.5 we started at 5% not to win but to trade. The total maximum amount a given company can invest is 3.5% for humanitarian or sports events or for organisations and 1.5% for cultural events in our country. Of course, until it was won, it was small and theoretical, but this year this ministry, and it's not just that, it's very proud to say that with that lower rate of 20, it's now 14%, we've already exceeded the initially expected 3.8 billion dinars of corporate tax revenue in July. Why? Because this year 1,900 new companies have entered a valued circle of taxpayers. For the first time in 12 years, they started making profits. First time they pay taxes. It's a signal that our economy is recovering. If we look at what the budget has managed to do, it is after the initial stabilisation and simplification of our tax system, which this esteemed home voted in April 2001. We are the only country with full exemption from the payment of sales taxes for what is a minimum consumer basket (economists would say unelastic) - fresh food, eggs, fish, meat, fruit, vegetables, but to this we added what is for the poorest layers of our society and how important: taxes on positive sheets or communals. Since the country of Serbia wants to be a country of economy and knowledge, we added hardware and software to it. That's what we've only done today in Europe, which we're extremely proud of. I could quote a large number of social categories that are better. If we look at the overall picture of our economy, we see a dizzy drop in losses in our economy, and that was yesterday. What's extremely important is to realize that the gross domestic product, which we found at $9 billion, is today about $17.5 billion. It's partly because of the revaluation of the dinars, because it has more trust in that currency and how it's more stable than it's ever been. Our foreign exchange reserves are bigger than they've ever been since the SRJ was formed, so there's no concern for our citizens that any unexpected movement of our currency will occur. Then, as is necessary and as is the official monetary policy of our country, carried out by the National Bank of Serbia, it will only coordinate our currency in contrast to finding inflation targeted and inflation in the euro zone. This year, in particular, many were unrealistic when we said that for the first time in 15 years we would have a single-digit inflation, not only will we reach 9%, but there's a good chance of being and what percentage below, maybe 8%, and knowing that inflation is 2% and you can calculate for yourself how much our course should be adapted. There won't be any fractures, nor should there be any anxiety. There was, of course, the possibility of regaining confidence in our banking system and that last year, with about 800m euros, we experience the biggest credit cycle that has happened in the last 12 years. We're not talking about the joke. We're establishing conditions for him to happen. We found interest rates that were 5% at the monthly level in early 2001. Thanks to the stabilisation of our economy and the elimination of taxes on financial transactions, on loans, we today have a situation where interest for most of our citizens and businesses does not go from 1 to 1.5% per month. It's still high, but knowing that inflation is 9% we see that real interest in us is quite acceptable. I think there's still room for them to shrink and need even more competition from our banking system and will be through restructuring and privatisation. We have launched the privatisation of our good banks, JU banks, Novosadska Banka and Continental Banka, and we expect quality strategic partners that will strengthen their balance and allow our businesses to have this partner who will be able to follow them in their exports, which today is one of the major brakes of our exports. That's why I can say that either the most malicious or the most uninformed will be able to explain to our citizens that this is worse. This is much better. In January 2001, 90% of the average salary went to mere survival, to food, to heating, to utility. Today it's still a big part of our budget, but it's 50%. So today 50% goes to survival, on average, and 50% to something more. Of course, these are the averages and of course we have categories of our society that are in a difficult situation. However, objective analyses have shown that 10% of our citizens live in poverty today. With this we cannot be completely satisfied, because we still have quite a number of those, and colleague Markovic will certainly talk about it much more, which are not in that category, but unfortunately they are still not so far from the situation. That is why, most of all because of them, we must maintain this macroeconomic stability and social inclusion. If we look at something this time just public finances, we've found a situation where we've had, if I have to single out three words, non-transparent, unfair and unreliable public finances. Why were they non-transparent? Because the 2000 budget was made and voted for by another assembly, and that it was only carrying half the public spending. The entire 45% of the income went through the so-called so-called. Special accounts and dedicated taxes. This home may have voted for one budget, but it didn't see the whole picture at all, but only half the picture and certainly not the most interesting one. Of the various special fees that have completely broken our tax system, we have not seen the whole of it, nor have we had the overall possibility of running any policy of public finances. It was because of the difficult situation, actually, but also because there were special interests, to a large number of so-called. Compensation, especially those that were not bilateral but included the chains of participants and were often malfeasances, where some would engage and offer something that was neither by parity nor by quality, by necessity, nor by purpose. The entire 23% of budget revenues in 2000 were compensated. No pension is paid on paper, no milk premium is paid on paper, and no wonder the budget was not able to carry out what was its obligations. Intransparency was also what was called an opportunity to regulate a lot of things at the sublegal level and hence another word of injustice. We had a situation where we had a large number of traffic tax rates and those pressures to move to a lower rate were uninterrupted. We also had a situation where someone could go to the finance minister's office, vice president in charge of any coordination or I don't know what, to provide for their lower taxes or any contributions. Of course, this has always been done under some sensitive company for the current situation of the given sector. On paper, it looked great, but we had a huge injustice where a small number of taxpayers had to settle the country's total tax obligations, and that's unfair. It was also unfair that the government could, as well as how it did, suddenly introduce any fees, new charges for the citizens, and that this home that expresses the will of the people would not be included in it at all. It's not democracy, it's not justice. Finally, public finances were unreliable. Confidence means to let down a promise. Confidence is tied to the 2000 budget, which was created in such a way as to predict only 11 pensions. It's a lack of confidence, it's a calculated scam for pensioners, and it's also when incomes are used throughout January or February to cover up what's true, and that's a deficit and cover the expenditures of the previous year. That, ladies and gentlemen, was called an extended budget year. It's a scam and it's the way someone's trying to cover up what's reality, and it's a deficit. That deficit, when we made a lot of effort to put together the whole picture, was 15% of the gross domestic product, but it was hidden in various accounts, in foreign reserves, in public enterprises, making holes, making bills without innkeepers. Today I will not say that the public finances of the Republic of Serbia are fully arranged. There is still much to be done, but it is clear that these public finances are much more transparent today and thanks to your action and the adoption of a large number of laws, than the Budgetary System Act and beyond. There is no longer a possibility that the Government or the Finance Minister himself will impose a new impose on someone. It must pass through this house and must be notified to our entire people and cannot be surprised. It's a great flow of democracy that a harrassor, intrusive, tax cannot be imposed on anyone other than the expression of national will. It's the key to democracy, and we've finally come back completely. On behalf of this ministry and this government, I am extremely proud of it. If we're talking about fairness, we've abolished everything so-called "justice." Special situations. The only company that was in a situation not to pay a gross salary was the EPS in 2001, because one moment for "The Bones" and "The Kolubara", some mentioned them today, was not possible to make repairs and pay total gross wages. But it has not been forgotten, and as soon as the possibility for this last month appeared, the EPS itself signed a reprogramme and began to pay the first installment of the debt, which will allow him to fully pay his contributions to his workers, including a tax that he did not pay. Tax is no longer a deceptive category that applies to some, not others, but has become that democratic inevitability that applies to all in the same archaic, and that's good. As far as reliability is concerned, I was talking about pensioners, all those who receive salaries from the budget, all those who were users of this budget, and they should be either extremely malicious or extremely uninformed without agreeing that the reliability is now much greater. How could it not be if, in three years' time, we fully compensated for the late childhood allowance, when we shortened from 36 months to 17 months later for agricultural pensions, when we were able to repay almost all the debts Tito had left and which the former regime of the 1990s had made and left. Let's start with the reprogramme and get the most favourable treatment since World War II at the Paris Club that counts all the countries that were our trustees. The entire 66% write-off, and a week later in the Croatian Parliament, a new debate was caused because the Republic of Croatia had not received any write-offs. We received 66% of the write-offs and because the former regime did not pay back the dollar or the euro or the debt for ten years. Not only that, we have received a reprogramme from the World Bank and other international financial institutions for which, if a man knows the finances well, he sees that they were extremely well-intentioned and have done the maximum that allows them their status. Finally, what was owed to our citizens, the big robbery, the huge shock that those people who thought that for generations gradually and civilization were saving for themselves, for their old days, for their children, for their schooling, for a little better life, when they were told in the early 1990s that this savings was only worth what the paper on which their savings were written. Is there more shock in a civilization country? There isn't. As a result, it is a great honor for this government and this ministry to issue bonds to all 4.6 billion euros last September, what is the debt to our citizens. There are 2.2 million savings that we regularly and legally serve their old foreign currency savings. We can also argue whether this should have been done to those former Dafiment Bank and Jugoscan, of course under different conditions, but they are 250,000. For them, just for that initial bet, that is, the principal downgraded by any interest paid, so, without any bassological interest they might have received, because it was clear to everyone that it wasn't sustainable. This year, speaking of debts, of the total of 400m euros, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, half of it went to our savings. It is our honor to pay them all this year's war by the end of November, without delay and reliable, as is now the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In the years to come we will maintain this great effort from about 1% to 1.3% of gross domestic product, which will allow us to repay that huge debt. The next year, the lower-stakes mass of savings will be fully subdued, so that a large number of our citizens will be fully subdued. There was one big debt left that made the former regime in 1994, and that's so-called. A big debt to the pensioners. This is where the Republic of Serbia's budget came into force and public finances began to service the huge debt last December. Every month, with one of the two wars, our budget serves our debt, so our pensioners can count on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. He's staying, if we look at the whole situation, just another debt, and it's not the biggest. I am sorry that this esteemed home has not put the law on the agenda for a year, which we proposed in September last year, which is the law on the settlement of the long-term loan for the rebirth of Serbia, because it has been embezzled as well. However, something more has been returned, but we decided to settle that debt. We have decided, however, when this esteemed home adopts that law, it will be the last debt it has guaranteed, in one way or another, this country, which is coming back. It's unique. There is no other country in the transition that has regulated and begun to repay all debts it has towards foreign and domestic creditors in the first three years. This is extremely important, because when we talk about debts, the new debt is only 3% of the debt found. It's not a fantastic sum, and surely the conditions are better than what the regime was able to provide in the 1990s. No wonder, because it was excluded from all international financial institutions. As far as Chinese debt is concerned, we are grateful to the Republic of China for having the understanding and at that moment to help our people. It's not disputed, but that debt was commercial nature -- libor, i.e. for bankers, those interbank interest rates on the London market plus 4.4%. It was about 14% then, when it was won. Compare with the debt of the Republic of Serbia yesterday, and that's 2.5%. It is a new Serbia, so much less a risk of this country, so much more favourable conditions, so much easier for us to find space in public finances to settle all the many needs that have been left for us and which, that is, our honor, is at the maximum speed that our public finances provide. The truth is, in the years to come, debt service, but it is important to always remember that for now half the debt goes into the currency of our citizens, not foreigners; it will slowly grow to one third, but it will still be a significant amount of that debt and will increase to about 5% to 7% of gross domestic product, from the current 3%. It will be a challenge, because it will require further reform of our public finances. If we look at the whole picture, after the consolidation of our public finances, experts will agree, most transparently today in Southeast Europe, because they leave no space for so-called. Quasi-Budget funds, extra budget funds. Everything must go into the budget and everything must come out of the budget, from privatisation, not as "Telecom", for which it is paid to Cyprus, without having to do so, because the country was not under sanctions then, but in the budget and the money at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget at the National Bank of Serbia. We are now able to gradually carry out this rationalization of public expenditure. I'll agree first with those who say our public spending is a little too much for our national wealth. We spend about 45.9% consolidated, our public expenditure according to gross domestic product. This should be translated into some 41-42%, while reducing the deficit, as we do, from 3.4% of gross domestic product last year to 2.6%, as we propose next year. These are arranged public finances, these are transparent, fair, reliable public finances. Public finances, it's a state, public finances, it's a budget that's been voted completely and parliament sees everything that has anything to do with public finances. I finally want to say, because it's often forgotten, local self-government has been largely fed on a spoon by the former regime, and the Law on Local Self-Government and then fiscal decentralisation we've come to the situation, and I guess that's the only amendment you've all voted for, with the sharing of that so-called. surplus, above the traffic tax limit, where only about 9 - 10% of the total income of local self-government is kind of shared with the budget. Of all the segments of public finances in the last three years, in the first 1,000 days of the government, the budgets of local self-government are those that have made the fastest progress. They've made progress so they're actually twice as big today as they were three years ago. The participation of public finances and local self-government has grown in our cookie, and that is good, because that money has been used without any new authority being transferred to the local level, to address the many problems our citizens, which local authorities are able to solve best at that level. I would just like to say, if we are already talking about public enterprises, that for the first time since World War II, this government and this ministry, it was not only in this effort, it was able to look public enterprises in the eyes and look at the situation in these companies and we have found public enterprises, which are all the rules of loss, and the salaries were 2.2 times the average of the Republic. Today, we find that NIS for the first time last year had a net profit of 6.6 billion dinars and for the first time in the history of public enterprises in Serbia paid dividends to the company. Thanks to that dividend, we were able to move diesel for our farmers and we managed to reduce the price for what they really care about further activity. It was so unexpected that in the Law on Public Enterprises, it was not easy for us to find a way to pay off that dividend. It's so new and it's so good. Not to mention Telekom, who still doesn't have an economic price for his services, but he's already starting to make a profit. That's good, and that's how it's gonna be with the EPS. The EPS is recovering. A lot of people talked about what's going on in energy. Our energy, thank you very much, is getting better and better. Not by chance, a total of 492m euros in donations were invested in our energy, an additional 352m euros in loans and an additional 80m euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget was invested for these purposes. Today, our EPS is able to function. Don't make any more losses to the extent he's made. He's also able to pay his suppliers. I was in Krusevec last week and a viewer called and he said two things at the same time: "I'm working at "October 14th" and I have to admit that my company is doing something better. I also admit that this social programme, financed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will help. We're getting on our feet. But, Mr. Djelic, the electricity -- it's expensive, it's not easy for us." By the way, when I asked that worker if he knew who the biggest client of the factory was, the answer was EPS. In other words, when things are set to one real level, when the economy starts to function normally, and for the price of electricity, public finances have found room for the entire 42,000 families to take care of it, under certain conditions, not to be deceived, to forgive them for their fixed fee and to help them pay their electricity prices. It's not even some faceless and insufficient social policy that's being run here. We have an EPS that pays and this EPS is a driver of up to 20% of the prices of our economy, and if workers in Kruševec are getting paid today, that is because the electricity price has been gradually raised to a more real level. And that's the economy of truth, that's the economy that's making progress. It is an economy and public finances that will allow our country to gradually, on a realistic basis, be better and better every month, every quarter, every year. If it is to judge by what the criteria are for those who see all countries in transition, to give just a few gold medals; I know that for our citizens many will say – it is easy for them, they live in London, in Munich, in some Washington, it would be harder for them to live with a salary of 180 euros, but it is still low wage. We have one of the most serious houses in the world, called "Economist", which has been the biggest advance in terms of attracting investment in the Balkans. We have a European Bank for Reconstruction and Development which is three years in a row of all 29 countries in which it functions as the country that has made the most progress in reforms. We have one compliment from international capital circles that we can say is good or not good, but our debt on the secondary market has gone from 10% of its nominal value to about 70%. Is there speculation in that? There is. Is that a real market? No, but was it because we had a large number of analyses done in our much better economic situation -- absolutely yes. Our privatisation process has been declared the most successful by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And not only that, one of the leading consulting firms has made the selection and selection of 27 countries that will be the most attractive for investment in the next five to ten years. Among them are only two in Southeast Europe: Croatia and Serbia. That's Serbia today. It's Serbia that's recovering. It's Serbia that opened tens of thousands of new small and medium-sized enterprises, and that's just the beginning. It is Serbia with which hopelessness has ceased and has a perspective. It is Serbia, which has fulfilled all its promises from the public finances. The compliment came when the unions of education and health, with which we negotiated, for the third year in a row, independent of this noise in this room and from the political situation, wanted to sign the memorandum with this government and sign the agreement. I asked them, why do you want to? You can see yourself asking a question of trust with this government. The answer of those with whom We have negotiated for days and nights, because we trust you, because you have not betrayed any promise. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the Government of the Republic of Serbia, she's believed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34008	The word has a national MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the right to propose. Zoran Krasic, a replica of the minister's presentation, misreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34009	It's really hard to hear the same speech 150 times, but well, Mr. Djelic wouldn't know anything else if he said anything other than that - it was bad, now it's very good, except you can't see it. It's so good, Mr. Djelic, that even the MPs of DOS don't listen to you for a long time, I don't count those from the DSS, they've long since raised their hands from that story, but not even that group of MPs from DOS, and even those from the Democratic Party applaud that you finish as soon as possible, because they can't anymore, they remember, and they and the citizens of Serbia. If everything's as good as you're saying, why are the results of the vote being falsified here in this room? Isn't everybody for what you're talking about? For those dreams of yours, absolutely everyone here would vote. But it's a cruel reality, Mr. Djelic. I must warn you of some of the lies you've made. You say only 10% of the poor in Serbia. I don't know where you dug up that information that 10% of the population is poor. If you can prove he's only 10% poor citizens, everyone will vote for you. Probably won't get a single vote in the next election. If 10% of the citizens are poor, then you call the elections, you will have 90% of the votes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's the first thing. You said-- gross social product this year is $17 billion. Is that what you're getting lost, is that your wish, your prognosis? Read any analysis of any economic institute in any variant, you can't even get to those figures. Furthermore, yesterday, we were said to have actually grown four times, according to your criteria maybe, but then explain what happened to the gross social product, what about this course, why when there's no inflation, people live even worse than when there's inflation. Let me remind you. You weren't here, you were in 1992, so you went abroad, so you were expelled from there. We're not going to ban you because you're our citizen, we can't do that, it's forbidden, but these are yours who attacked Russia and China. They say they're not our partners, our partners are there in the west. That's good. You're back now. Please say big donations, fantastic results. Where is it? Show me. What's done, what's improved, where's improved, how improved? Everything works, everything works. It really is, then, a changed system of perception of conclusion. I appreciate your personal fanaticism, but don't ask us to be so masochists. We've got eyes, we've got glasses, so we can see what the reality is. If this is better than it was, give the elections, it is the best guarantee that you will win 130% of the votes in these elections, because that's how you get votes here, so you pass the beautiful laws Mr. Djelic explains.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34010	The word is proposed by Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard the presentation of the Minister of Finance. However, I would advise Mr. Minister to once read the stenographic notes of his presentation, so it will be clear to him that nothing is clear to him. Believe me, he's so confused in his exposure that no matter how hard he tries to figure out what he wanted to tell us, he can't understand it, and when you read what he said, then you can't find the beginning and end of the sentence, which in itself says that a man wants to talk, he wants to do something, but he can't. Whether he doesn't know or doesn't know or what's in the wrong place, I really don't know, but that's the impression. Now, he's telling us nicely how they've arranged -- how to take taxes, how to avoid tax evasion, I just don't understand how that Kolesar still doesn't pay his taxes. He didn't explain it to me, and he didn't explain to me how he thinks he's filling the state register. You can't fill the register with this kind of legalization, as you predicted by the Planning Act, that 10 million won't get into your government register, because the people aren't crazy enough to agree to that robbery and give you that money. Before I explain this legalization and explain to the citizens what you wanted and that you do not have to pay what you want from them, I will return only to another case of DOS-manlia kidnapping, and it is the AD "Mepritlastics" in Šapec. They say all their sufferings begin from November 20, 2000 when current Serbian Chamber of Commerce President Radoslav Veselinovic fell violently with armed people into their company. Daily newspapers have repeatedly informed the public of an unkind event, but no one has done anything about it. In November 2002, shareholders addressed the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, the Ministry of Securities and the Belgrade Stock Exchange. People don't know that there's no ministry of securities of value, but it's this securities commission of value, but you know what it's about, because the mentioned houses in that period asked the press to report to companies that have privatisation problems, but no one came to us to help. After the incursion of the current Chamber of Commerce president, the buying-in of shares from workers and pensioners begins with various threats to those who do not want to sell shares. The "Mepritlastice" delegation was with Minister Vlahovic, where Vesenovic was also found, I mean Radoslav Veselinovic, and where Vlahovic said that the purchase of shares was not allowed, because the old law was out of force and the new one was not brought in. If you say so, it's an honor to even point out that it's not even allowed through court with power of attorney, but exclusively through the stock market. Vesenovic returns to Sabac and continues his job buying shares and firing insubordination workers who do not want to sell shares. When he arrived, he appointed his nephew's director, Dejan Jagic. 350 workers were employed, and today there are only 150. "Metritlastics" is privatized, they say, according to the old law where she turned her shares into a series "A" action, etc., etc. Now, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, as people address Minister Vlahovic, says - when it comes to secondary transport actions and property transformations that you are talking about in the memo, we inform you that the Ministry has no jurisdiction to control the legality of shares in the financial market, but the Securities Commission, as referred to in Article 68. The law on securities of value. Those from the Securities Commission and the Financial Market on 7 March this year say - please contact the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, the Privatisation Agency and the Action Fund, and say - in particular, we draw attention to the fact that the shareholders are at their disposal a set of opportunities to protect their threatened action rights, from the right to interfere with the purchase by the majority owner's obligation to buy them actions at the least, at the cost at which the owner bought the action, and to the possible compensation, provided that such damage is demonstrated in the court proceedings. The needs for protection shall be particularly borne by minority shareholders and shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 251 to 254. The company law is such an option and envisaged. Our ministry and our government, what wasn't passed at a time when they were in power or were in power, they don't admit it at all, because they don't have the Company Act; they don't fully ignore the Company Act, this law we had in the procedure, while we studied whether it would be on the agenda or not. Of course, this commission tells the company and the workers that the claim for establishment requires the cancellation of the registration of the capital increase in the court register. The company may increase its share capital if the normal value of all shares in general has been paid, except in the case of shares acquired under privileged conditions, i.e. from privatisation. It is therefore necessary to address competent authorities, institutions, and all other issues in question in order to control privatisation. The Agency and the Ministry. Now they are from the unloved to the unloved, and the company in the hands of this Veselinovic, who is sitting with Vlahovic as he discusses his personal interests in the company that he has, of course, kidnapped. That's why you need a conflict of interest law, and that's why you need anti-corruption law, because since October 5th, you've stolen so much that you can't convince anyone else in this country that you can correct what you've done in any way. So, oh, my God, we're going to be exhausted in college by that college roll of how many faxes from Serbia are coming, how many people want to hear from this pay phone what a difficult situation we're all in. Here now is the Alliance of Independent Unions again, which says that yesterday afternoon they had the opportunity to make sure that every authority to preserve its position is using the same method of pendrek. We thought the pendrek was a methodology for preserving power plus the clutch (it was a long time ago for you, Mr. Prime Minister), but our current power in the spirit of the West and Western processes that brought us before the Halloween brought us to life this methodology. We are appalled by the fact that police officers were dressed in new war equipment yesterday in Belgrade, probably arriving from the west, beating an impoverished and dissipated people who only sought the admission of their representatives to the Serbian Parliament and the exercise of their basic union rights. On the very threshold of the 21st century, at the door of the people's home, the police are so viciously beating and penning an ordinary working class on the grounds of the citizens of Belgrade, Serbia and the entire world public. This is Milan Nedeljkovic, under the signature of the Kolubara Union Organisation -- surface co-op, president. When those from the Kolubara Union, who have laid hope in you on October 5th, write about you, don't be surprised that the opposition here knocks you down in parliament, which the SRS, knowing what the workers think, is just what it is, because we didn't say anything that doesn't exist in Serbia. The consequences are visible, and you're always talking about some of the time you inherited. I'm telling you again, if you think and if you didn't think you could fix something, you shouldn't have taken that job, and if you've accepted it, then you have to only talk about your results, and these results are measured, they're positive here, they're negative, so what's the weight, you're worth so much. "We are not at odds with the fact that we are workers of the Kolubara -- surface copies of precisely the force that allowed the Serbian government and the interior ministry to issue an order to impair workers on the streets of the capital. When we elected to the Lord in power and supported, we did not hope that their justice and democracy would be painted on the back of the workers. That people's -- that the greater democracy, the longer the pendrek, only speaks of the wisdom of the Serbian people and the fact that over the centuries the government has not changed much. If the prime minister and the interior ministry have honor and dignity, we expect their public apology to the workers and citizens of Serbia during today, to wash at least one stain off their political biography, or to go to the Serbian Parliament as a moral act and publicly resign. "These are the various letters of those who no longer know where, whose rights are being abused, who are completely demoralized and prevented from protecting themselves, and it is no wonder that letters, faxes, and requests are coming to us to bring it to the public in order to at least teach others. So we started around the finance minister and the real economic policy, and I linked this real economic policy to the results, i.e. the expected results of the law on construction, that is, the law on planning and construction, because it is expected to be the biggest money in the years to come. We all know that for almost two years this law on planning and construction was prepared, which was meant to replace four previously applicable laws: the construction law, the law on special conditions for issuing building permits, or applicable permits for certain buildings, and more commonly known as the legalisation law. So legalisation is nothing new that this government has made possible for citizens, there was the possibility that legalisation would begin and legalisation would take place earlier. Because of the lack of some sublegal legal acts, it didn't work out very well. In addition, a system of spatial and urban planning has been announced to fully reform the system, the land-building system, simplify the process of obtaining building permits, the maltenes will be sufficient to call the competent municipal service by phone, and, above all, to the benefit of the Serbian people, to allow almost free legalisation of illegally built buildings. When you talked about legalization, you didn't even mention how much that legalization would cost. It turned out to be too much. Now I'm going to remind you and the citizens how much it costs. First of all, the costs of applying and applying for legalisation, the previous costs that must be settled immediately, without delay, long before it comes into place to approve legalisation and to pay for the fees on which it was spoken, look like this: a geodetic video of 6,500 dinars; a registration of 3,500 dinars; a copy of a cadastrian plot of 1,500 dinars - in the biggest course of advertising legalisation in Belgrade is this fee doubled, and that happens in all other legalisation charges. Then, the registration of rights in the land book of 250 dinars; a copy of the land books of 100 dinars; confidence on changes of users on the plot from nationalisation to today 1,750 dinars; a copy of the urban plan 3,850 dinars for a minimum of 30 m2, up to 67,500 dinars; professional property-legal settlement services on land of at least 500 euros. This people are in a lot of pain, you know, today. The project of the executed facility -- from three to five euros per meter square; so now you see, at least 100 square meters of the house as far as it is. Registration of the legalization facility - 250 to 1,750 dinars. No transfer fees, photocopies and any costs of conducting other administrative and judicial proceedings are included. The only thing you know is that they have to be paid immediately, and the amount is uncertain. Under the pretext that legalisation is easier, citizens are loudly promised payment at the beginning. What's up ahead isn't at first but right now, and what's at the beginning of a serious doubt is. There is not a single act from the level of the Republic which would oblige municipalities to calculate what the lawless builder has previously invested in municipal construction land equipment. It pays twice for the same thing. Here's an example: let's say, pay for legalisation if you have an unedited facility or reconstructed without permission or built up, anyway, pay the state what you need, even though you already paid once, it doesn't matter, let's say you pay this another time, and it goes through your street. The one given the right to introduce gas says 2,000 euros per household. You must again, if you want gas, and they say electricity is gone and electricity does not need to be used for heating and no heating anywhere in the world, give it out of your pocket 2,000 euros if you want to move on to gas; and where is the obligation of the state to provide you with full infrastructure. What's the infrastructure for you? If it's not the road, the water, the sewers, the phone, if we have to pay for it ourselves if we want the connection, then who do we give this money to? What fat geese do we rub our feet with, and we don't have anything to do with it? Where did people get this kind of money and who estimated that for millions of objects they could take 10 million euros, billions, I don't know, billions of them are terms and millions, too. Ten billion euros, and where did you get the idea that the people had that money? There isn't. You mean the payoff? We buy everything on payment. We spend household appliances buying on payoffs, buying clothes on paydays. We send kids on tours and pay in wars. What's wrong with you people? It's like you don't live in this country. That's why we Serbian radicals have gathered (and I didn't bring it to you today, but I'll bring it to you tomorrow) for an incomplete 10 days across Serbia 170,000 signatures of citizens who are against this kind of legalisation, because this is violence. What you're about to do, it's absolutely violence. The citizens, of course, didn't believe that this would all be for nothing when you started talking about legalization. They believed they had to pay something, they knew, and how much, you left local self-government to decide how much. That's why we, when the law was here in the process, warned you not to leave that issue unresolved. We must resolve it here in parliament and tell the citizens what this law will bring them. He doesn't just deal with legalization, he only has four members dedicated to legalization. All sublaws, and 30 more to be passed. Why don't you tell the public how much of this demand has been filed? Where's my building minister? He got away. He'll come tomorrow with his data. First of all, citizens don't apply for legalization. Not even 10% of those who would like and who would have to legalise their facilities do not apply for legalization. What are you going to do to them? You can't hurt them. What are we gonna do? We tell them - don't file any demands, because this government is leaving and you won't legalize your facilities under these conditions. Now you can say - you invite citizens to disobey. Yes, I say, what the hell, and Mr. Zivkovic urged citizens not to pay electricity and to throw bills into that barrel in Nis, so he destroyed the power industry looks that way, so now you've brought the power industry into a situation that you have to take these credits to fix it and recover it. If he could have called for civil disobedience, which we can't tell the citizens -- have a little more patience, don't ask for legalization. If by chance they come to destroy your facility, all of you from the neighborhood gather yourselves together and do not give, give yourselves solidarity, and I can - what; nothing or as our people would say - to spit under your window. It's these inefficient laws that you bring here, thinking you're doing something radical, thinking you're cheating on the people, stealing something else that might be in the people, but you can't. How many citizens believed in such an unserious and lightly promised speed and for free legalization of illegal objects and how much did the minister believe, which is this smiling gentleman without a mustache, even though he became a minister with a mustache? According to estimates of serious institutions so far, and at the end of the legal deadline, here we are now close to it, registered somewhere around 15% of the lawless builders. Data served by the competent ministry through public information means are a fraud, as is the legalization of fraud by system in an easy and fast way to take the citizens' money and fill the budget, as the donations of "friends" from the West are too short. Here is an example published in "Politica" since 18 October 2003, and the data refers to the number of legalized cases by 10.10.2003: New Belgrade, the number of illegal objects 1,000, and the number of registered 2,547. So over 1,500 citizens signed up without need. They don't have an object, but they couldn't resist a smiling video minister, the one without a mustache with a helmet. The same case is with Chukarica - the number of illegal objects is 3,000, but 5,290 reported for legalisation. Vrachar - number of illegal objects 411, but 780 reported them. That's what the minister says. Where did these illegal objects come from, no one alive knows how to take away 411 from 780. You'd see how much he lied about if I didn't say he lied. Sopot doesn't have any illegal object, but 70 of them checked in. Probably Minister Vlahovic with his family, let's fill in the number, so Minister Šumarac can say that legalisation has started in Sopot as well. That's funny. I'll get the minister back on some more things here. In addition to what the citizens were most interested in, which is how much is it, gentlemen, costing? Mistakes concerning spatial and urban planning are all the effects of your authority. You want reports, here I am going to report what Minister Shumarac has been doing ever since he became Minister and how the citizens are experiencing and what problems they have in life because of such a criminal law. A spatial plan of the Republic has been abolished, and no one has said why. Whether it was wrong, whether it was supposed to look different, ask the father god, mostly some new plan act was introduced for a republican level, called the Development Strategy. So we don't have a plan act anymore. We have a development strategy, and he's about to explain at all what kind of act it is, what its legal nature is, and the same goes for spatial development schemes. Be careful, in the law you find the name - spatial development scheme; you have some kind of plan, now you have a spatial development scheme. It's just that a man smiles. It is particularly incomprehensible that all these acts are made by the ministry as a state body of administration. It is to expect the law to create normative and legal conditions for the state and municipality, since it is also a state body, the authority of the administration, to do its job and to draw up professional documents by professional institutions. A Spatial Planning Agency was established, the only name of which is to sow simplicity, Europeanised, and it is, in fact, the so far, the Republic Office for Spatial Planning. So what this agency is doing right now is supposed to be doing this agency, but since we're used to just starting agencies, let's change our name, but let's see what that agency is doing now. The Agency was established beyond the names and status set out in the law which suggested the most professional staff, because they should work on the most complex and most responsible jobs in this area, and the head of the Agency comes a man with no professional references, with a recently completed traineeship. It's become a rule for you in your government. All assistants may have a year's internship, maybe not, after 10 years they've studied, but they're ministers' advisors. That doesn't bother you, and that's why you devalued and called counsellors and the label of experts, because if an expert is behind it is science, there's a scientific work behind it in a particular area, it's not just a diploma behind it. I can't do it for myself because I'm a graduate lawyer and I have this calling to say I'm an expert in legal science. That'd be funny. Mr. Minister, you and I are completely equal as far as calling it, you other sciences, though, but you call yourself an expert. Likewise, Mr. Šumarac believes he is an expert on this, destroying full urbanisation and construction in Serbia. It's been six months since this law was passed, and that's one-third of the deadline in which all these isolated urban plans are to be reconsidered. What's going on? Could the minister give any information on how many procedures have been initiated so far (these are specific issues), since none of them are completed - he certainly has the information - and in particular how many procedures for reviewing the plans adopted by the Republic Assembly have been initiated by the Ministry, because this is his jurisdiction. Let's see what he's done. The ministry did not make a commitment on May 13th this year, when the Law on Planning and Construction was passed; its obligations existed before. What is specifically in the area of spatial planning and urbanism, what plans have been made, what has the urban inspection done, what is happening in national parks and what is happening in other areas under the control of the state? Let's see exactly what the law, Minister, obliges you to do, whether you have done and what chaos you have created in this way. As far as building land is concerned, construction land exists in the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but in your law it no longer exists. Whether the minister overlooked it on purpose, ignoring the Constitution, which would not be the first time, we have warned you many times. This provision of the law does not comply with your existing constitution. You have to wait until that changes first, and then you do this. You simply ignore it and force your own or pass one law, and you do not say that this law is not in line with someone who is lex superior to it. It's equally devastating both and completely disqualified as a minister, because the new category is public building land. It was to be expected that the anti-sub would be some secret land, but we got the rest of the building land. So now we don't have city building land, we have this public, we have what's left, and in secret we'll find out when we find out where you have the cottages, the houses and everything you've come up with in an illegal way. In addition to the obligation to pay the charges for use and compensation for the planning of the building land, a lease was introduced. Obviously, there's been a bad and unknowing copying of some Western European laws, and that's what we've been warning you about. It was read both English and French, but apparently the translator was missing. Construction land users in state property should be explained why they suddenly pay three land charges instead of two. There, Minister, another question for you, besides why you shaved your mustache, is why three land fees are paid. It crosses the right to build, as a kind of compensation for the right of property taken away to immovable property, no longer exists. There's not much more right to build. What about that unrealised obstacle to real construction? What about those who haven't realised their rights? Are they, and on what basis, abolished, and if they are not abolished, how will they be realized? I'm just here saying what this law doesn't regulate or surregulate or give answers to certain issues that create confusion, and these are for many life issues. It is an obligation for the Minister to monitor the application of the Law on Planning and Construction in a work relating to construction land, regardless of the competences for the planning and security of use of construction land are transferred to municipalities. How does the Ministry monitor application and what are the results? What municipality has distinguished the public from the other, not to tell the secret land? Mr. Minister, I don't know from what means, I guess from those -- other purposes, in the budget planned for his ministry, he paid a lot of advertising by advertising this legalization and this law, everything now as a palm of your hand, he wore that helmet, he took a nice picture, but he advertised himself more than legalization, because his ad absolutely didn't fit, or it didn't lead to the desired effects. As we collected the signatures, starting with Belgrade and every municipality in Serbia, against legalisation, how we go to some lawless settlement to collect signatures, so Minister Šumarac comes after us and encourages citizens to apply for legalisation and threatens to tear down the facilities. Also in Kaludierica, here are my colleagues, to remind the citizens. The intention was clear, to pass such a confusing law that could not be applied, to start with the collection of legalisation, and not to pass sublegal acts; then the minister told us that it would take at least 20, 30 to be able to implement it, and that those people who operate in the municipality would know when and on which basis they can legalize an object; that still no one can do it, because there is not a complete circle of that legal form, and then everything else. However, there is no response to legalization, Mr. Minister, there will not be and do not be afraid of the people that you will destroy them, because they will help each other, not because they do not respect the state or the law, but because they have gained severe torment and because they have no place to pay you. Because you don't understand your job at all, because you have proposed a law that can be some textbook or seminar work, but to be a law with clear legal norms and legal consequences, it couldn't possibly have been. Why is this law bad, and why has lawless construction taken place? If you had analysed this, I believe that you would never approach the adoption and proposal of such a law, nor would most vote for such a law, because you would respect the fact and the truth that these same citizens who built illegal objects are the least guilty of these objects being illegal and that they should not now be later punished. And we had those suggestions from you that whoever turns on the mixer and starts building something, if they didn't get permission, even if it's building a terrace, gates or fences, because they're getting a building permit, they can go to jail. Who in Serbia went to prison because he started building lawlessly? It's no one, but you thought it was supposed to be in the law, knowing in advance that you wouldn't be allowed to take anyone to jail for something like that, because we still explained to you that the investor is one, the one who directly builds is the other, and whether you're going to have a 70-year-old grandmother who's been taking care of the house and who's doing something, and in fact her son is building and physically he's doing it, or the master who came to work, whom of those three of you are going to prison for, what, a year or three years, Verice, for three years. First, the reasons for the illegal construction are that over two-thirds of the buildings were built on land on which property-legal relations were not resolved and this continues, which is why many of these millions of objects will not be legalized until these property-legislative relations are resolved. It takes months to solve them, even if they have been conducted before the court for years. Realising that no good assessment has been made, and who should make it, given the composition of the law-making commission, the minister has voluntarily derivated this legislative provision in public and has instructed citizens that they do not need proof rights on land. That's where you lied to many citizens, Minister, you said, publicly, that they didn't need proof of land rights. Then why is it not so prescribed by law at that time as two years of talking about this law, there was one thing that was said, and after a very different area, the law regulated it. For the geodetic shooting of the facility, an authorised firm is required, and one day for the recording of a single facility. Has it occurred to you that whoever was doing the law to calculate the relationship between the number of objects, the number of authorised companies and the number of days needed to perform the geodetic recording? Those who asked for it know how much they were waiting for, and then these in the municipalities came to terms, so the private geodetic agencies that do it, the couples share nicely, and the state has the least use again, and you wanted the state to profit from all of it. I'm looking to skip a little bit, and the right to tell you that I have a whole elaborate on urbanism and the minister, because it's such an indignation of citizens and at every rally when we mention legalization and Minister of State - ovation. People say, thieves. That's how they yell, and I want to warn the minister that the citizens are experiencing this law, what he did and what he said he was going to do and I can't let the citizens on the street yell - thieves, thieves, and I don't warn Mr. Minister. He has the opportunity to defend himself and come here, say it's not true, and Boza Djelic doesn't know what she's doing. We don't mention God at all anymore. He's not current now. He's the Minister of Legalization now, and everyone knows that, as far as taxes go, no one has anything to pay the tax anymore. The stores are closing, property tax and property tax is getting smaller. There we can be easier and easier and Minister Djelic is no longer interested in broad circles. Now Minister Shumarac and slowly deserve some more, of course, each in their own way. Some affairs, someone by their work in the ministry, professional or unprofessional, already the public after assessing it. Since you, Mr. Minister, consider your greatest result the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, nothing else has been done, and according to the law, it would have been better if it hadn't been done. According to his moves, the minister was in charge of confusing and scaring the citizens. First, he threatened crimes and prison sentences for all those involved in illegal construction, then generously announces amnesty for lawless builders. No one has taught him that only one who has already been punished for his work can be amnested. The first reaction to the disastrously bad law, expressed in the light of a completely private book, some comment, which invited citizens, legal and physical persons not to read, I read it in the paper, someone commented on this law, so Mr. Minister called that someone and it seems to me that someone from the ministry was fired. I guess it was some minister's advisor. It's a woman. Interestingly, the ministry now dares to publish a comment of the law on such a clear law. The minister had no one to learn that the ministry should not comment and interpret the law he proposed, nor is it responsible for such a thing, especially if the law is completely clear. What's with the law comment? We don't know who's doing this comment to you. When he's betrayed, we'll deal with him a little bit. You know, we MPs, in addition to working here in Parliament on the agenda that you're proposing, at meetings that, if they're extraordinary, according to your draft agenda, we're taking citizens here, in the National Assembly building, that come with a variety of problems and everything they tell us, we're obliged to write down, analyze and bring it to you. This is a few things about the Department of Construction. I didn't mean to do it today, but I had to. Because of that real economic policy, to go back to Mr. Djelic. If real economic policy comes down to the kidnapping of these ten billion euros, then, of course, it's completely missed, Mr. Djelic. I'm telling you in advance, the next Mr. Domazet, we'll leave that for Monday. I will allow Mr Djelic to replicate to me, because I love it most when he comes to this pay phone, the most points the SRS gets when Mr Djelic speaks, because the people understand it best and see what is the disastrous difference between the minister of finance and the MPs of the SRS. MPs don't speak casually, speak exactly, subdued data, and the minister leads, mostly, one speech as he once could at a rally. We find it interesting here, the right to tell you, to break the monotony a little bit, but I'm not sure the citizens expect it more from you. They expect concrete moves from you now, but most of all, they expect us to beat you here in parliament, to have 126 votes against this government. If we're going to have, I don't really know, but I'm sure you won't have 126 behind you, and we're going to beat you in the presidential election, I'm convinced, and that's why I'm announcing tomorrow's rally in Zrenjanin at 15.00 hours, so we can explain everything we haven't been able to explain here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34012	Gordana Matkovic, minister of social policy, has the word. Information has reached me for MP Gordana Pop-Lazic and Minister Vlahovic, as far as correcting the information that has been presented after the speaker is concerned. I guess one of you will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34013	Here, I'll do it very briefly. I hold the study in the hand of "Poverty and Reform of Financial Support to the Poor", the Centre for Liberal-Democratic Studies, which he was doing, among other things, Bosko Mijatovic (who was quoted earlier by Professor Stamenkovic), which, based on the largest poll ever conducted in Serbia, speaks of 10.4% of the poor. I'd just like to say that Mr. Djelic didn't get that information out of his sleeve.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34014	The word has Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, so Minister Dragoslav Šumarac and then Prime Minister. The chairman's desk was reached by an official letter, which also came to the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic. I don't read the contents of the letter, with a request to send it to Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34015	First, to criticise my ministry's whereabouts. The Ministry of Business and Privatisation is located where it was in the past term of government and where it was and when the privatisation minister was Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic of the Radical Party. It's not my fault that you brought your policy to have the state bombed and the government building, too, and that the government and the ministry had to move around the surrounding buildings. So, I'm not in a building where "Deloitte & Touche" is located by making my decision, but by inheriting the, uh, found state. Otherwise, you will be pleased to read a report that was neatly sent by the Ministry and the Agency, as long as the consulting house participates as a financial adviser in the collection of expenses. Here, find the location of the Deloitte & Touche. That's the report you've got. Secondly, as far as the privatisation of "Mepritlastics" Shabac, which is mentioned here, "Mepritlastics" Sabac is privatized under the old law. The action fund, through the Belgrade Stock Exchange, on 20 May 2002, is one possible way, and this means competitively, openly, with the entire public being familiar, sold the actions he had in his portfolio, a total of 33.7%, and the buyer of these actions was the "Galeb Group" from Šapac, or Cerovac. But it was a public, transparent, competitive auction, as well as any other held under the auspices of the Ministry and the Privatisation Agency. I was asked by the director of "Parmos" from Novi Sad, who is mentioned today, and in the context of the DPP "Bačka" from Tkonoplje, which we said in the previous exhibition that it has nothing to do with privatisation and that all these problems, if they exist, have absolutely nothing to do with privatisation. The fax I received reads, "Dear Mr. Minister, I am speaking to you about the presentation of the Radical Party MP, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, who has brought forth a series of lies that serve political propaganda. We're sending you proof that we've paid 65 million dinars, not $5,000. And the other statements Mrs. Pop-Lazic are not true, and I am ready to document the truth for you. Please deny the lies that attack you. With respect." Here's that evidence, here's a copy of the trade court's solution. On the third side of the copy I received, it reads: "The capital of a member of a society, paid in the amount of 65.2 million dinars, in the new DOO "Bačka" from Tkonoplje". So much for the evidence that's being presented for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34016	The word is made by Minister Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34017	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister here has already pointed out that the example of urbanism led by representatives of the SRS is shown in Zemun. Unfortunately, it's an urban crime; even residents of Blue Horizons don't call it a nice neighborhood anymore, but they call it the Black Horizons because of what you did to them there, which is that it's a settlement, that part of the city was intended for a dump. Now the city of Belgrade and the Ministry of Great Efforts are making any kind of recovery. That applies to both Buses and Altina. The groundwaters are already in the basements, so the citizens can't resuscitate those houses themselves. As far as space and plans are concerned, at the time of your reign, so-called. The red-and-black coalitions, you've made only one spatial plan. The government has since 5 October made spatial plans for the entire corridor 10, meaning from Batrovac to Belgrade, from Saturday to Belgrade, from Belgrade to Nis, from Nis to the Macedonian border and from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. We did and in the final phase are spatial plans for national parks, what you tried to read, but you saw for yourself that what they wrote to you had nothing to do with reality, so you gave up yourself. Now what's most important, the citizens who are watching us now don't believe that story at all. Even that bus you paid for with the loudspeaker no longer mentions it, nor does it go after Serbia anymore. That's what they forgot to tell you. So the real state of things is next. In Belgrade, to this day, and this is going on an exponential curve, and I think we'll have a chance to talk about the ministry's work on Tuesday, and then we'll say these new numbers, reported to legalise 81,343 owners of illegal objects, out of 97, so over 80%. In Zemun, therefore, where you think you have the greatest support, a total of 8.5,000 reported. It says how much trust you have in not only the citizens of Serbia but also your supporters. As far as compensation is concerned, all cities have adopted that recommendation made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is that for housing up to 100 square meters, it is less than 30,000 across the whole building, i.e. per apartment or building, in border areas. In Belgrade, it is 45,000 dinars, which is less than 1% of the value of the facility. Please, for each car of the middle category, an annual registration of at least 9-10 thousand is paid. Therefore, four-year registration of cars is more expensive than legalising such an object. So, all that you've been saying, that's some old information, and it's a good thing you stopped reading because you got all the wrong information. I especially want to say that all cities have also adopted the Government's recommendation not to charge for any auxiliary facilities in the village, what you feared our citizens in the villages. So, for bracelets for agricultural machines, barns, stables, garages, there's no charge for legalization at all. Even some municipalities, I can give an example of Belgrade, Nis and other major cities, there are representatives of the authorities in those cities, do not charge even in the garage cities in those border areas. So, once again in the end, so that I don't owe it, I'll have another chance to talk about this, I can say here, during this debate, especially for our viewers, that many members of the parties that are against legalization, and they swear they're legal, and the parties that attacked us here asked me to legalize illegal objects. Therefore, opposition party supporters, don't trust me with anything, all MPs are asking to register illegally built objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34018	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34019	By the way, since Mr. Forest Minister is a reasonable person, he didn't want to introduce himself as an expert, because everyone knows he's a professor at the Faculty of Civil Engineering. So that comparison was inappropriate, as was all the missing facts we've been listening to all afternoon. By the way, let me tell you that, let's say, fuel was said to be sold much less than it was sold in 2000. That year 4,800,000 tonnes were sold, and this year it will be 7,000,000. That's one proof. About whether the standard is increasing or not, you can take it yourself to check that one refrigerator in September 2000 cost four and a half salaries, and today it's 1.3. One stove was 3.7 and now it was 1.7; that the washing machine was 6.4, and now it was 1.7; that the "South Tempo" then was 89.5 and that now it was up to 22. As for the stories of those very cheap products that protected the basic standard of citizens, such as edible oil, which was not at the time, and the price was that you were 166 liters to buy for one salary, this year you can buy 190 liters. For sugar, the ratio is 187 kilograms to 278 kilograms. In any case, it is obvious that the MPs who invited us to this parliament, in order to explain to us that we should not be the Serbian government, are doing two bad things. The first is that they do not sit and thus lose the opportunity to be educated by my ministers and the second part is that they continue to delay the debate with their mindless speeches of several hours, which neither have any fact in their content nor help anyone. We've been sitting here for two days and still haven't started the debate within those ten hours. The opposition MPs who asked for this debate want this government to remain in its place for the most part. I understand that desire, because they have never lived as well as they do today, as MPs of the opposition, but we are still a democratic government that will not rule forever, at least not without elections. I promise you that this government will do its job until the election, then after the election again, with the same data, with a little bit better data than these, with a growth of 3%, 4% year-on-year, with the aim of opening up those new 200s and a few thousand small and medium-sized enterprises by 2008. For these children who are defeated by all competitions both in the country and in the world, in all areas that are important for the 21st century (unfortunately, not even today most of them don't have their own study rooms or their computers), we will do everything, and this is the job of this government, not for one party, another party, the third party, that these children finish schools in their rooms, with their new computers, to go to the world to study and to return from the world and to inherit these ministers. Most of them had one such development, they could rise up with their biographies, their diplomats, and they could rise with what's been done for the last three years, one small part of that honor I carry, I'm happy to heaven about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-31-0.u34020	This concludes today's work and continues the session on Monday 3 November at 10.00 hours. The People's MPs, the president of the parliamentary groups, came forward. The first to speak was MP Bojan Pajtic, the DOS parliamentary group, followed by MP Borislav Pelevic, the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, then MP Dejan Mihajlov. There is also a right to the replica of MP Zoran Angelkovic, a replica of the presentation of Minister Djelic. Thank you.
