ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u26995	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. On Thursday, March 13th, when we gathered to pay our respects to the murdered Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, you were informed of the specialties following the introduction of the state of emergency at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and by decision v.d. President of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Natasha Micic. According to official records, 130 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, a sufficient number of MPs are present in the hall and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We have no notice of the absence of the Members of the People for today's session. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend this session to attend the vice-president, ministers and secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You were presented with the minutes of the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003 and the minutes of the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the emergency. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the 2003 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 5, 6, 11 and 25 February 2003. For 129, 25 of the 154 MPs present did not vote. Since other MPs have joined us and we have begun work, I ask media representatives to leave the room. This session won't be in direct transmission. Media representatives, journalists, editors, can track her in the Assembly building, but please leave the room. I guess I haven't heard from you. The first session of the regular session of the National Assembly is not in direct transmission. I ask media representatives, journalists, editors-in-chief, photographers and cameramen to leave the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Events, debates, and decision - making can be monitored in the building of the National Assembly. I thank the representatives of the media who left the hall and those who are doing it now. After the conditions have been met, we continue our work by deciding on the records of previous sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am voting on the minutes of the 2003 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 12 and 13 February 2003. 90, a total of 224 MPs, did not vote for 134. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Session. I am voting on the minutes of the 2003 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 19, 20 and 25 February 2003. For 133, it did not vote 98, a total of 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 19, 20 and 25 February 2003. I am voting on the minutes of the February 25th 2003 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's 5th extraordinary session. For 129, they did not vote 102, a total of 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 25 February 2003. I am voting on the minutes of the February 26th, 27th and 28th 2003 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. For 128, they did not vote 104, a total of 232 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the February 26th and 28th 2003 session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I am voting on the minutes of the February 26th 2003 session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 128, they did not vote 102, a total of 230 MPs. I am voting on the minutes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session during the state of emergency, held on 13 March 2003. For 129 against 15, 86, a total of 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session during the state of emergency, held on 13 March 2003. I would like to inform you of the confirmation of the mandate of the Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Krasic, elected from the SRS election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Krasic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Notice of the resignations of the Members of the People. You have received the resignations of Bozidar Vučurovic, Miroljub Veljkovic, Steve Dragisic, Aleksandr Vukic and Bozidar Vujic, as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these resignations, with a proposal that the National Assembly, based on Article 88(2) and Articles 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MPs Bozidar Vucurovic, Miroljub Veljkovic, Steve Dragisic, Aleksandr Vukic and Bozidar Vujic. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the mandate ended, before the time was up for which the MPs Božidar Vučurovic, Miroljub Veljković, Stevi Dragisic, Aleksandr Vukic and Bozidar Vujic were elected from the SRS election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. I would like to inform you that at the 63rd session held on 14 February, the Administrative Board discussed video and written statements by the MPs Slobodan Tomovic, Stanko Kovacevic, Zoran Angelkovic, Muje Muković, Milan Stanimirović, Borislav Novakovic and Dragos Babić, in order to identify the participants of the incident and to violate the Rules of Procedure by the participants of the incident that took place at the National Assembly session. On this occasion, and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is a measure of warning to the MP Branislav Pomoriško and a measure of distance from the session of the National MP Tomislav Nikolic and it is up to the Administrative Committee to take care of the application of these measures. We're moving on to the agenda. (Goldana Pop-Lazic: Business. ) The session, which was delivered to you, contained a proposal for the sitting agenda. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. Suggestions to consider an emergency procedure. 1. National Envoy Cedomir Jovanovic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda, as the 1st point -- the election of presidents, vice presidents and ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, against 63, there was no vote of 45, of 233 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 124 against 42, it did not vote 68 out of 234 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 3. The High Council of Justice has proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2002. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, against 57, it did not vote 52 out of 234 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 4. National MPs Emilija Krstic and Vladimir Dobrosavljevic proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 45, against 144, it did not vote 46 out of 235 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The proposal to change the name of the agenda points. National MP Dragor Hiber suggested that item 4 of the agenda read - Proposals for a selection, appointment, resolution and termination of the functions of judicial officials, as well as that the motion for a decision on the discharge of the District Attorney's office in Prokuplje and any other proposals for decisions relating to elections, appointments and resolutions should be considered. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 125, against 55, it did not vote 55 out of 235 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Proposal for an extension of the agenda. 1. National MP Dejan Mihajlov proposed that the agenda be extended to the new point - the draft law on denationalisation, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Dusan Budishin on 28 November 2002, and that the bill be considered a 5th item of the agenda. Does the people's emissary Deyan Michael want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u26996	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia has been considering withdrawing this proposal today at the session, but since the government has proposed and voted to extend the agenda, not only the point of election of the president, vice-president and ministers, but also other points of the agenda, we remain on the proposal to extend the agenda to the proposal for a law on denationalisation, because we believe that it cannot go into privatisation without such a law and that there are a lot of issues about property. We remain on the proposal to discuss denationalisation once already in this assembly, on one project, it's part of the bill, which has been given the consent of this asset association and I think it's complete at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u26997	I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Dejan Michael and ask the MPs to come forward. For 49, against 124, two abstentions, were not voted 60 out of 235 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A proposal to carry out a joint principled search. MP Cedomir Jovanovic, based on members 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Restraint of Organized Crime, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Judges, which the National Assembly decided to consider under an urgent procedure. Does MP Cedomir Jovanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 124, against 103, eight of the 235 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the proposal to conduct a joint principle search on those items of the agenda. We move to the agenda of the session in general. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all items adopted by emergency procedure, as well as on the basis of a proposal for amendments and amendments to the agenda, shall be included in the agenda of the sittings in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for acts adopted as new items of the agenda, the committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure and proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would ask the MPs to make a statement on the daily red session in general. I put on the vote a draft agenda in general, and I ask the MPs to come forward. For 124, against 102, 10 of the 236 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. The election of President, Vice-President and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposals for the selection, appointment, resolution and termination of the functions of judicial officials. I ask the National Assembly to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda for the session and to hand it over to the MPs. We move to work according to established agenda. The People's Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic reports on the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u26998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been holding the Rules of Procedure up for 10 minutes now, and Madam Chairman doesn't find it appropriate to give me a word, so I wonder if, as part of the state of emergency, the suspension of the television broadcasts of assembly sessions, and let our parliamentary rights be abolished? We have been informed here that some phantom session of the Administrative Committee was held and that some events that took place about a month ago in the National Assembly were given a warning measure to Branislav Pomoristska and the head of SRS MP Tomislav Nikolic's distance measure from the session. If you allow me to read Article 104, I am convinced that I will assure you that there was no basis for such a thing, and if we have in mind and Article 101, which speaks of the work at the National Assembly meeting of the old National Assembly President and that it is the discretionary right of the National Assembly to impose such a measure, then you will realize that the Administrative Committee had no authority at all - we are wondering whose order, who even called that committee - that this situation is being discussed. After that, Tomislav Nikolic was held at one of the sessions, I think it was 25, and here in the Assembly that he was head of the parliamentary club, another session was held after the event, so during two sessions and he participated in the work of the assembly session and now, at the moment when the public was shut down and when he cannot follow the course of this session, we are left without the head of the parliamentary club. You probably think it's enough to send the president of one of the parties to The Hague to shut down the work and make it impossible for the head of the parliamentary club to participate in the meetings of the Assembly and that the MPs of the SRS will be demoted, and perhaps scared, perhaps act differently than they usually do, and that their blade will be something more blunt, in criticism of what needs to be criticised. We warn you once again that it is not a good way to go, that it is not in the spirit of parliamentary democracy for which you should advocate and which you declare, so I ask that the President of the National Assembly call back the Administrative Committee and that the Administrative Committee decide whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken by the President of the National Assembly who has not spoken the measure, and if he felt that there should be any measure to this event that took place, I think it was February 17th, more than a month since that event. Whoever was physically attacked, these MPs could see, Mr. Pomorski physically attacked Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, if anyone was threatened, then it was him. If you saw something else, why didn't you react at that session?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u26999	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27000	I've got, ma'am, another breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, so I don't go back to my seat and report back to you, to allow me to carry out that breach of the Rules of Procedure. This morning, on the benches we received a report from the Administrative Committee, which found that by submitting the resignations of the MPs Bozidar Vučurovic, Miroljub Veljković, Steve Dragisic, Aleksandr Vukic and Bozidar Vujic, elected on the SRS election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj, a case took place from Article 88(2). The law on the election of MPs; therefore, resignations have been submitted, they are no longer MPs, we do not see why the Administrative Committee did not schedule immediately after that next session, why the Republic Election Commission did not hold its session, why new five SRS MPs' mandates cannot be verified today. Instead of 23 MPs, as many as our parliamentary group counts, you will leave us working with 18 MPs today. I remind you that today you are choosing the government, that you need 250 MPs, in this assembly we have had a situation that 124 MPs were also a quorum, that it was a sufficient number to vote, and I would not be surprised that today that number is 123, since five MPs in this assembly are missing. There is no reason, if you do not want us to also challenge the legitimacy of this assembly and possibly vote today on this government, to set a break and to have the Administrative Committee and the Republic Election Commission do their job, to confirm here today and to establish the mandates of the new MPs, because we have neatly delivered their statements on the acceptance of the candidacy and the RIK and the Administrative Committee really do not have a big job about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27001	Your remarks on the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the measures made, regardless of which it is not the subject of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, but on behalf of the continuation of the cultural parliamentary relationship in this assembly, the measure stated refers to the report requested by the President of the National Assembly on the incident that took place on 13th in this assembly. It is my right, when power to conduct a session, as well as hers, to impose disciplinary measures. No one in this assembly will miss the political rights, nor the rights of the People's MPs' Corps, as you will not miss the right to express the measures of violation of the Rules of Procedure, in this case, when we, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, establish the agenda and, of course, let all MPs use the entire Corps of their rights. Your request for a session of the Administrative Board will be granted. As regards the procedure for granting a term of office to new MPs, of course a session of the Republic Election Commission and the Administrative Committee will be scheduled and no one will be lacking any rights arising from the Law on the Selection of People's MPs or Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – The election of the president, the Vice-President and the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia has received a proposal for a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which is in agreement with Article 83. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the acting president of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Natasa Micic. You have received the consent of Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to accept the candidacy. Thus, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the following conditions were met: - that the candidate for Prime Minister should present his programme to the National Assembly and propose a composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, based on Article 92(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia - to open a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for Vice-Presidents and members of the Government, and on the basis of Article 186. Rules of Procedure - to determine the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers without portfolios in the Government and to elect the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia (Article 73 point 10). Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 5. Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly) and - that members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia take an oath, and on the basis of Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to present his programme and proposal for the government's composition to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27002	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am not happy to be in this place today with the task I have, which I have received from my party and from the coalition that this party belongs to. I'm sure no one in this room is happy that we have to choose a new Serbian Prime Minister today. I hope they all share the same type of accident, that they are sorry for what happened, that it is clear to everyone that the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic is the loss of one great man, for his family, for his political party, for this country, but that this loss must not be anyone's reason to covertly or openly look forward to the destabilization of the Serbian government, and thus the Serbian state itself. That murder isn't just a mob shoot-off with the guy who wanted to deal with the mob the most. That murder has its own clear political background and its own clear political inspirers. I expect the investigation to also determine who the inspirers are, politically and financially, of this murder and that they, along with those who technically carried it out, will soon be brought into law. The obligation of all of us who have had the privilege of working with Zoran Djindjic is to continue what he, along with his government, began just over two years ago. So -- you're going to get the text later, here I'm going to convince you, which is not an exposé in the right sense, because this is also not the new government in the right sense of words, this is an emergency in the government, or a decision produced by a higher power -- there is a clear definition of the special priorities of the Serbian government in the coming period, which does not mean that the priorities set two years ago will be further made with less intensity. On the contrary. My idea was to make these seven things, which I'm about to tell you, potential as the most important thing to do immediately and by the end of the term of office of this government, and that means by the end of the term of office of this assembly. At this point, we need political stability, not because of the congregation's majority and the government that holds power in this country, but because of the state itself. That is why I call forward all those from the position, but also from the opposition, especially those from the opposition who are certain that they have done nothing by doing or by doing nothing to bring about the situation in which the atmosphere was created that the Prime Minister can be killed and the atmosphere in which he was killed, to give, for their part, the way in which they determine, but also in a way that will be clearly recognised, the contribution to achieving political stability in our country, I repeat, because of the state, because of its citizens. As I was saying, the government's proposal that I'm going to tell you in the end is nothing new. I will try, along with others, to partially replace the loss that came from the murder of President Djindjic, but the government remains in the same composition, on the same path, with the same tasks, with the same goals and with the same people to implement the programme you adopted two years ago and a few days ago. Special priorities at this time are the fight against organised crime, the creation of a new and modern constitution of Serbia, the creation of general political stability in our country as a condition for regional stability and further construction and preservation of Serbia-Montenegro's state union as a condition for European and global integration. The fourth priority is to continue the start of economic reforms, by privatising and turning the existing social economy into a healthy and efficient economy, health reform, education and pension insurance systems. Change of legislation, it takes priority, especially that business, as a condition for attracting as much investment in our country as possible. The sixth priority is to create stable democratic institutions and continue to start building a public service system, which should become in full sense the word "civil service" turned to the interest of these citizens. The seventh priority is to continue diplomatic, political and all state activities in ensuring the rights that the state of Serbia has in Kosovo and the Metohija under Resolution 1244. The fight against organised crime has its own up to date, the most intense in the murder of the prime minister. But like all citizens of this country, you are witnessing that it did not begin on Tuesday 12 March, that the fight against organised crime began much earlier, that the path to creating mechanisms to make this fight more effective, that the Law on the fight against organised crime in this Parliament was passed more than half a year ago, that in the then federal parliament it had to wait until the end of the year and only then were the conditions created for the activation of the law that you have passed. It took a few months, two months, to get a special state prosecutor, as a new institution, and personally and technically get rid of it. When a special state prosecutor started his job and the first results were achieved, when it was a matter of hours and not the day the first suspects were arrested for whom evidence was collected by the work of a special state prosecutor, the prime minister was killed. In the fight against organised crime, we are still facing the strengthening of institutions with the most important role in this fight. Here, first of all, I mean the police and the judiciary, in technical, material, but also in human terms. We are witnessing that even under the old laws, in that system when there were not so many real mechanisms for an effective fight against crime, there have been many examples that the police and the prosecution have done enough to bring criminals to justice. And then, by incompetent or corrupt interpretation of the rights by some judges, not all of them, by the minority, but by the active -- the dirty minority, many of them instead of being in custody, being effectively tried and sentenced to deserved punishment, are released because it is necessary to guard their cattle or to fight as good merchants for their piece of bread; or to return the arsenal of half a tonne of explosives, bombs and ammunition, because it is a reminder of a friend and cannot be long apart from that memory. We've had cases like this. We also had a well-known case of Milanovic, legally convicted, so he was let go on vacation, which I can understand, and after that he was allowed to finish some more things and ended up temporarily with some things for himself, which means that he temporarily avoided the prison measure that he was sentenced to. I think that each of you has many examples in your city, in its midst, where there was a paradoxical knowledge that some people, who are not suspects, are not to be told that they are doing crimes, but where they have been proven to have committed crimes, by competent institutions have been proven, at large, that they have been released. The action, which took place on March 12th this year, as you heard from a statement by the MUP and the Serbian government, yielded results. Over 750 people have been detained, and against a good number of them is a certain detention. It's been found, for now, a very significant amount of explosives, bombs, weapons, means of communication, all those things that are not allowed to be owned by a private -- a natural person and all those things that are very good instruments -- a tool for crime. That action will continue. What the police and the judiciary have to get is that in technical and technological terms they're at the level of time and years we're in. The earlier regime has invested maximum in pendrels and water cannons, in all that police could use only against political opponents, but the criminal police have been completely abandoned and in these two years, the government of Zoran Djindjic has done a lot, but not enough to ensure that the technological level is adequate. This will be, together with the modernisation of the judiciary and together with an adequate, not political but professional, humane policy, the first priority of the new government, i.e. the government to continue the continuity of the government of Zoran Djindjic. The state of general political stability in the country and the region and further construction and preservation of Serbia-Montenegro's state union is an important priority and I don't think there are much dilemmas about it. I don't know the programme of any political party sitting in this House without it being for the integration of our country into Europe and the world and it's clear to everyone that this integration cannot be achieved if we don't have in our own home, in our backyard, the stability that guarantees it. Our short-term foreign policy objectives in this area are membership in the Council of Europe, accession to the Partnership for Peace and the start of membership negotiations in the European Union. The initial steps towards achieving these objectives are to begin in part from the previous federal government, but it is clear that these steps will be more intensive and efficient now that, as you know, the Council of Ministers was formed yesterday, and before that the new parliament of the state union and together with the formation of the Serbian government will be for the first time, or for the first time in 10-15 years, a Union foreign policy that will lead to us showing a higher level of seriousness and unity of attitudes with foreign partners. Continuing economic reforms, privatising and turning the existing social economy into a healthy and efficient economy is also an important priority. The murder of Prime Minister Djindjic will have the consequences of economic plans scheduled for this year. It is now clear that the growth of gross social product will be less than 5%, as envisaged. The assessment of the competent ministers and Minister Djelic is that it will be around 3.5%, while the planned 9% inflation will be slightly higher. To remind me that this government led by Zoran Djindjic's inflation from 113% in 2000 reduced to 41% in 2001 and 15% in 2002. Also, in 2002, the consumer basket was worth 3,32 average salary, and in September 2002 the average consumer basket was equal to the average profit. Normally, it is not something that we can be completely satisfied with, but it is a significant result and a good foundation for further strengthening the standards of our citizens. Nor will Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, nor will I, together with the same ministers, speak lies, good wishes, some things that we are all sure are very nice to hear, but we definitely know they are unfulfilled. As before, the government will tell citizens the truth. It is true that it will take us many years to reach that level of social standard, a common social and state standard that we will be satisfied with and be good for compatibility with other countries in our environment and in Europe. Serbia's government will continue privatisation. During 2001 and the first half of 2002, institutional frameworks for privatisation were set. By March 12th, more than 500 companies were privatised, of which 415 were auctioned, 20 in tenders and 80 in retail packages. In 15 days, the tender privatisation of the Nis and the Vranje tobacco industry will be opened, and the privatisation of Beopetrol should soon be expected. The privatisation revenue last year was 355m euros, and the revenue from the contracted investments was more than 300m euros. For this year, we expect through investments and through privatisation of a total billion euros, half a billion from each source. The law on bankruptcy, registration law, corporate law and the law on a loan guarantee fund are being prepared, which will be a continuation of the completion of legal-formal conditions for effective work in this field. About 800m euros in donations are expected this year. In 2001 and 2002, the total amount was around 1.4 billion euros and was spent, as you know, on sectors: energy 304 million; social issues 244 million, agriculture 93 million, health care 86 million, education 27 million, development of transport infrastructure 83 million, development of the private sector 83 million, development of local self-government 123 million, development of civil society 73 million, direct assistance to the 180m-euro budget. All government activities from January 2001 to March 12th this year also led to the rise of the average salary from 35 euros in 2000 to 102 euros in 2001 and to 151 euros in last year. The government will continue with all the activities that should, I repeat, continue to contribute to raising citizens' living standards, but this standard will only be raised as well as so far-real sources. The government will implement a decision on the introduction of fiscal deposits in the second half of this year. The government expects and predicts that this year's growth in agricultural production will be about 3%, the Serbian government for the first time started paying out a parental allowance for the first child of 55,000 dinars for the second 98,000 dinars for the third 130,000 dinars. It seems like a small thing, but it's a civilization thing and it's of the highest interest to our country. You will have in the text that you will also receive more detailed consideration of all other types of social assistance. About 800km of roads were restored in Serbia in 2002. The government has allocated 175m euros to rebuild these roads, and 50m euros are provided from donations. The works will soon begin (when I say soon, I think for a few days) on the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, and this year it is scheduled for the renewal of the 197m-euro road network, which will restore and build 830km of roads. In early July, a renewed airport in Nis is expected to begin. In the past few months, the Serbian government has managed to agree and formalise 29% of the state telecommunications company Telecom Serbia with foreign partners, which will create much better conditions for further development of the sector in our country. We expect this assembly to adopt a law on railways, to adopt a law on telecommunications, which includes the creation of a telecommunications agency, licensing, a strategy for the development of broadcasting, a frequency plan, a strategy for the development of computer networks in our country. We also expect the assembly to adopt changes to judicial laws as soon as possible, allowing the judiciary to leave compromised and corrupt personnel, who have obstructed the state's efforts to deal with crime for the past two years. This isn't any legal cleanup, this is no revenge, this is a clear relationship to the clear state of affairs. That's what I was saying at the beginning, and I think examples of the existence of a minority, but an active and dangerous part of the judiciary, you all have yourself. Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, is almost an eternal topic for politicians in Serbia. In the last ten or fifteen years, the topic has not gone in the direction anyone in Serbia could be satisfied with, regardless of the big words, the trumpets, the gush and the gazes, which were heard with great satisfaction with what was achieved in Kosovo and Metohija. It has been achieved that it is now not a territory under the sovereignty of our charm, but that it is a territory under the patronage of the international community. Since the adoption of the famous Resolution 1244 to this day, the state of Serbia, the SRJ, and now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, have fulfilled all obligations under the resolution. The international community has not met half the commitments it has made. That is why Prime Minister Djindjic, along with his co-workers from the Serbian government and from the general political environment, clearly launched a process that should lead to the final status of Kosovo and Metohija soon (i.e. soon, several years); to the final status that will be, not a further source of problems and instability, but precisely clear stabilisation, security and any other, in that territory. In an amannet to us who will continue what the previous government, led by Zoran Djindjic, has begun to do, the rest of Kosovo and Metohija. I expect that today, after all that has happened, there will be fewer people who have seen this initiative as a day-to-day policy, unthinkable, transparent and poor initiative of the prime minister, to gather around this programme and these strategies all of our forces, not on national or not only national basis, but also on a democratic, professional basis; to help each of them to carry out the process in front of those from the international community, to the Albanians in Kosovo, to be presented as a serious project of all those who want their political work at any level of government to be carried out in a valid manner. Ladies and gentlemen, when this assembly elected Prime Minister Djindjic's government (I don't remember whether it was January 25th or 28th 2001), the recently murdered prime minister then promised, among other things, the start of the privatisation process. Privatisation has won its real swing, and we can already say that in the course of this year more than half of the economy will be private enterprises and that more than half of the employees will work in them. He also promised the establishment of an ombudsman, or a people's lawyer. The bill that needs to define the area has long been in parliament and it is up to you when this promise will be fulfilled. Regular pension payments -- a few decades later, pension pensions, the last two years, were given 12 pensions, to be sure of the dates when those pensions would be paid. These pensions are not enough, they are small, but, as you know, a good part is paid out of the budget, which is another additional burden for that same budget. They'll continue with that practice. It's not a practice, it's not a special achievement, it's a return to civilization standards that must exist. It was promised by Prime Minister Djindjic and the return of debts the state owed to citizens, based on social debt. All these debts have been paid back. Investments in infrastructure and energy have been promised. Most of that data you already know for yourself, but we can say -- here we are, in the end of winter, with the experience of two or three difficult winters, that there were no problems in that area. Any one of you who came to the session today could see for himself that there was a new state of traffic infrastructure; and that was achieved. The government of Zoran Djindjic has promised to increase the salary and purchasing power of the population and I have spoken of it. Five times the wage is nominally increased and not to quote how realistic the increase was for these two years, but we can measure tens of percent of the actual increase in these salaries. You've been promised a return to the international community, and I don't think anyone should convince you of that. A new tax policy and strict control of oil, cigarettes and other excise goods have been promised. We are witnessing that it is fully accomplished. One part of the promise has not come to its full realization, and I expect the process to continue, that further activities by the government of Serbia, parliament and all other institutions in this country together contribute to the sacred obligations and promises being fulfilled. Personally, the people of the government, the people of the Democratic Party, MPs of the Democratic Party, and I am sure that DOS MPs, we have our own not only formal but also personal responsibility to continue this job, from the sense of pititism towards the murdered Prime Minister Djindjic. Don't expect me to look like Prime Minister Djindjic. I don't have any ambition to even step up to what he meant in this country, his sense of vision, to define goals, to define a clear strategy and mechanisms that need to be achieved. I don't even want to try to think that I can compare myself to him, but in me, expect a man who, with the same determination, along with others, will solve all situations that will look like a crisis or be a crisis in this time ahead of us. I think that at the end of the most difficult crisis situation we have had in the last few years, and I call on you, as I have already done once, that all of you, all of you who do not feel responsible for what happened to Prime Minister Djindjic, in your own way, as part of your political programme, help to continue his programme, his government programme, and after his death. I propose that Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Dr Nebojsa Covic, Dusan Mihajlovic, who will also serve as Interior Minister until the election, Prof. Dr. Zarko Korac, Jožef Kasu, Mr. Miodrag Isakov and Cedomir Jovanovic. For ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I propose Mr. Božidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy, Dr Vladan Batić for Minister of Justice, Rodoljub Šabić for Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Prof. Dr. Dragan Vesenov for Minister of Agriculture and Water Management, Mr. Aleksandr Vlahović for Minister of Industry and Privatisation, Dr. Kori Udovičko for Minister of Mining and Energy, Marija Rašetu-Vukosavljevic for Minister of Transport and Telecommunications, Prof. Dr. Dragoslav Šumarec for Minister of Urbanism and Construction, Dr. Slobodan Milosavljevic for Minister of Trade, Tourism and Service, Prof. Dr. Goran Pitić for Minister of Economic Relations, Dr. Dragan Milovanovic for Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Gordan Matković for Minister of Social Affairs, Prof. Dr. Dragan Domazetevljet for Minister for Minister of Trade, Minister for Minister of Culture, Minister of Health and Minister of Culture, Minister of Culture, Minister of Culture and Minister of Culture of the Minister of the Minister of Culture of the Ministry of Culture of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Minister of the Minister of the Republic of the Minister of the Republic of the Minister of the Republic of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Republic of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of All candidates for ministers are present, except for Minister Pitic, who is in the Netherlands, where he signs a memorandum of understanding and a gift from the Dutch government from (for starters) fourm euros for joint projects in our agriculture and Dutch enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27003	We heard a programme and a proposal from the government, presented by Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, a candidate for Prime Minister. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. According to Article 186(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a hearing on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for the Prime Minister, candidates for vice-presidents and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. With another invitation to address the lists for the words of the MPs, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27004	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, acting as president of the Republic of Natasa Micic, submitted the president of the National Assembly, Natasa Micic, a proposal for a candidate for the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and proposed Zoran Zivkovic to the post, as she said she heard the opinion of the majority in the National Assembly. We don't know who makes that parliamentary majority, though. By the end of the debate or at the moment of the vote, we will certainly know who it is, but if only the DOS Parliament Club - Serbia's Reform - has consulted, then it is not enough to vote this government. I suppose she also had to consult representatives of the Social Democracy Parliament Club, the Democratic Party and this phantom club called "Serbia". Generally in parliamentary life, at least so far, that the President of the Republic, and in this case we have an act of office indefinitely, consults representatives of all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly and thus demonstrates this parliamentary democracy in action. At least the means of public information have informed us about it and shown a picture of the President of the Republic meeting with the heads of Parliament clubs. This time it wasn't like that. The situation is different, though. We sincerely regret the family of Zoran Djindjic, for the wife of Zoran Djindjic, mother Zoran Djindjic and that loss, but for two years we have warned you that crime in Serbia has reached such a level that it is becoming unsustainable and that it is becoming a danger to the institutions of the system, and you have been deaf to all these warnings, now suddenly everyone in the state is surprised, now it is necessary to introduce a state of emergency, and now here we have a candidate for the Prime Minister telling us that the state of emergency is not directed at the citizens of Serbia, but only to criminals and that it should serve to deal with crime. In our opinion, the state of emergency, as far as crime and criminals are concerned, must be permanent. Serbian citizens are obviously not in danger, nor are their safety at risk, because if they were so police-informed, they would be standing outside the school, where our children are, in front of kindergartens. They wouldn't be standing right in front of state institutions, and I don't know why they'd be in front of the National Assembly today or yesterday as members of the army and militias in masked uniforms with long pipes. It is not true that all this is not about the citizens of Serbia. Go from yourself, how many of you are going out to public places, how many of you kids are letting you go out to parks without an escort and at what time. Some curfew is currently in force in Serbia, and everyone is mostly in their homes, where they are not safe, because due to the state of emergency that this government will, indefinitely, extend, no one can be certain of anywhere. Today, there's also the White Church at the SRS Municipal Committee of Police with long pipes. We don't know what they're looking for, they won't allow access, they've changed the lock, they've entered the premises and they're standing with long pipes and masked uniforms outside the party's premises. If it's a government programme, if it's a state of emergency necessary for the full silence of the media, opinion of political opponents or political participants, if we need to hear only the voice of the government and no one else in this country, then it's a dictatorship. Then to call it a clear name, a dictatorship is being introduced into Serbia, or it has already been introduced, and this government has defined the programme's future that, indefinitely, while this people can endure it, they are conducting a dictatorship. I will also take this moment to tell you that it is not good if political tensions grow here in Parliament and in political life at all. And now Zoran Zivkovic has told us he is in favour of political stability in the country. It is impossible to be political stability in the country if we cannot plead in the media, if no one can hear our opinion, if we cannot exchange views and draw some quality for our country. I guess we're all behind this, and our methods are probably different, or our paths are different, to get to the same goal. There is, however, a problem in this National Assembly and the legislative and legitimacy of this Parliament. I have to make a point today, it'll be written down, someone's gonna do it sometime. The parliament no longer has 126 legitimate MPs to vote for the government. There can be some artificial majority, people from the gallery can vote, but many who sit down here and vote here today should be sitting in the gallery. It's only on condition that the chairman invites them to come to the gallery. We have 13 MPs who have resigned, uninvited resignations. They're still MPs. We have MPs from this phantom MP group, "Serbia", who cannot possibly be MPs if the Law on selecting Members of the People is respected. We didn't respect him either in the case of the Social Democracy; and why -- because today the Social Democracy will vote for this government and for some projects both these and the past government; and these Socialist Party MPs should also stop their mandate because they are excluded from the SPS. There are almost 30 people sitting here making important decisions, and they are not MPs, and they cannot influence further developments in the country. We are constantly ignoring and questioning not only the legitimacy of this House, we are questioning constitutionality, the legality of all decisions this Parliament has made and made. We are questioning the legitimacy of this government which I assume today will be re-elected, if what the president is to us, v.d. The President of the Republic wrote in this brief memo, that she consulted the majority and I suppose provided that majority who will vote today. One more question is unexplained. We're choosing a new government today. What does that mean? It means we don't have a government right now. The question arises, then who suggested to the acting president of the Republic the introduction of a state of emergency? The nonexistent government. That's what we have to agree on, and we have to figure it out, because if we had a government, we wouldn't be choosing a new government. Regardless of the personal composition, the government is represented and represented exclusively by the Prime Minister. The moment that, for any reason, even for this tragic one, there is no Prime Minister, the government is no more. An emergency I'm reading in the press today, you're saying you've been given the support of some of the West, please, if we need the support of any foreign countries to introduce a state of emergency. Those of us who don't think well would want us to be in a state of emergency all the time. I guess we need to think about what's good to do in our house, not to listen to people who are always tutoring us, constantly blackmailing us, so that eventually on a spoon, here and now, we can offer some economic help, or fill in the budget deficit. We are a party that has always acted in politics, both in power and in opposition, as you would like the government to treat the opposition and vice versa.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27005	It's ten minutes. Are you using the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27006	Yeah, I'll talk more. We used exclusively political means, the political means of political struggle. We've never been too sorry to tell you in your face what we think. That, whether you want to listen or not, you can analyze if you turn a little bit into the past and see if we were well-intentioned or malicious; therefore, we are now talking about what the future Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic said here in the titled exposé. Unfortunately, we haven't received written material, and we really needed to get at least written material, although we haven't heard anything new, except that in Serbia we live better, that the standard will be better, that pensions will be greater, that pensions are really small and insufficient, but they are regular, and it will be even less messy if we vote the law that is currently in the procedure, on paesian and disability insurance; and the government's priority is integration with Europe and Europe, regardless of the concessions and the conditions that are being set for us. We haven't heard anything new, it's the same government that got the majority support here in January 2000, including DSS support. Today they will not receive, nor will they, the support of the MPs of the SRS. I also think that this government and the parliamentary majority of course do not expect it, but it is our legitimate right to say and what are the reasons for this attitude. There are always talks about some reforms, and today the candidate for prime minister has touched on reforms in health and education, not telling us what it is. It is probably thought that it is politically profitable to talk about reforms. Everybody wants some changes. Reforms can be better, they can be worse. I guess we all want them to get better. We haven't heard here what the roads are and what measures this government is going to take, so that in these very important spheres of social life, it would be better. For a government where Dusan Mihajlovic, if he had a little cheek, would resign immediately after the prime minister's murder, because what if ordinary citizens think of their safety and how to be safe, unless the top state officials can be safe, and we can't vote. For the government in which Gašo Knezevic, who again prepares us for a new Swiss elementary school, can't really vote. The personal composition of this government, we talked about it in 2001, and there are all the shortcomings of these candidates, and then we presented to the ministers, and in these two years it turned out that we were absolutely right. All the projects the government has provided to the National Assembly, all the laws that Minister Vlahovic, Minister of Labour, Minister Pitic, have been working on, that I am not talking about Minister Veselinov who has done nothing, indeed the SRS and SRS MPs will not be able to support, and of course we want you to succeed in bringing Serbia to a better path and to take her a better path. That's what we're saying in our desire to really light this people once, but this time, we're expressing our suspicion that it can happen to you. That is why it was much smarter that you did not stop the election of the President of the Republic, because it is entirely uncertain whether this constitution of the Republic of Serbia will ever be adopted, as you imagine it would be, within a period that would be normal for this parliament and would be the smartest in terms of calming political tensions to call new parliamentary elections. There has been a redistribution of power in Serbia, and we all have to make peace with it, as much as you like it or don't like it, but the elections would mean a drop in tension, some others would come to this parliament, perhaps some of us in this or that number, and the people would know how to judge, how to divide cards in elections and make us think more compromise and different, and all in order to really stabilise the state, would they not, once and for all, rest after so many years of difficult state conditions in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27007	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, the SPS parliamentary group. Is anyone else picking up after him?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27008	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, ministers, Mr Zivkovic, the Socialist Party of Serbia has strongly condemned the murder of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Democratic Party of Mr Zoran Djindjic, with the request of state authorities to find the culprits and fines. Sympathy telegrams The Socialist Party of Serbia also sent to the family of Mr Djindjic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Democratic Party. Because of this tragic event, the Assembly is today considering the agenda item -- the election of presidents, vice presidents and ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the DOS parliamentary group. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that forming a transitional government of all relevant political factors in the Republic would be a better solution, as it would rather ensure political stability and the security of citizens, which is most needed today for Serbia to overcome the difficult situation in which the country is located and thus create conditions for calling the elections. DOS has another political concept and it is its right. In any case, the government's choice of DOS or other republican governments creates conditions to abolish the state of emergency, to normalise the work of state authorities and institutions and the state of the country. The state of emergency opens up a lot of space for possible abuses of political opponents. With the circumstances, the confirmation of this is the information we received that this morning at the White Church local DOS has entered the SPS premises, although it is interesting, given that Gordana mentioned a police raid, but we have received information that the local DOS has entered the SPS premises, which may have been conditioned by this very emergency situation and the need for some internal relations to be resolved, and confirms the danger of the duration of the emergency. The state of emergency is also excessive because the biggest consensus of political parties is on the fight against crime, I think, all of which, of course, the SPS. The Socialist Party of Serbia, as a opposition party, will not vote in favour of the government of the Republic of Serbia on the DOS proposal for reasons we have publicly announced in the initiative of the Central Committee for the Change of the Republic Government. On the general plan, the SPS will not vote for the proposed government for two reasons: one is a concept, and the other is personal. The concept is contained in the programme, the proposed government, as we heard from Mr. Zivkovic, will not bring anything new. In our opinion, the government of the Republic of Serbia's work so far has been negative. Many indicators confirm that, and we have no reason to believe that future work will be better. Personally, changes in the current government are minimal. One is conditioned by a tragic event, and the other is seen as an expression of the needs of the Democratic Party and relations within the DOS. There are a number of reasons on the individual plan why the SPS will not support the proposed government of the Republic of Serbia, and I will mention only some. First, political and social opportunities in Serbia have deteriorated substantially over the past two and a half years. The government of the Republic of Serbia failed to deliver on election promises. Its impact on the country's political, economic and social security is very negative and produces far-reaching negative consequences. The entire political system is shaken by the lack of respect for the law, the constant violation of the Constitution and institutions; and also by the political and legal combinations, the withdrawal of parliamentary mandates, the formation of fictitious parliamentary groups, the introduction of forced administrations in municipalities is challenged and annulled the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, both in the republic and in the local plan. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not enjoy the confidence of most Serbian citizens, best shown by the failed presidential elections, where despite the reduction of the electoral censorship, the candidate government has failed to win. Secondly, the SPS cannot support the proposed government and because the government has made a decision based on which, contrary to the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the former president of the Republic and current SPS President Slobodan Milosevic are detained, or handed over to officials, so-called. The Hague tribunal. At the same time, the government refuses to provide legal protection and assistance to Serbian citizens who are tried or charged before this court, as required under the constitution. Third, the executive power has absolutely been placed in the role of achieving DOS policy. The government, that's a fact, ignores the constitution, laws, in two years has brought dozens, and some have counted as many as 100 regulations and decrees, setting itself above the National Assembly and practically avoided any democratic control. Instead of regulating law enforcement by means of laws, the government illegally adopts regulations with the power of the law and thus assumes legislative authority. Fourthly, we believe that this government cannot be supported because it has failed to preserve the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in no way, in any sense, in any way, even in a language. A hybrid was created that no one knows how to function and that has no match in the modern world. Essentially, two independent states were created that were left for three years to agree on the division of assets in the meantime, and then announced the official end of so-called. the common states. Fifth, one in a series of affairs, such as the arrest of Republika Srpska Deputy Prime Minister Momcilo Perisic by military investigative authorities and a charge of spying and issuing state secrets in democratic countries would in itself withdraw the government's resignation. Instead, the government launched a public campaign to criticise the work of military authorities. The sixth, within the scope of the legislative initiative, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed bad laws. The most dramatic examples are: The Labour Act, whose unconstitutional solutions put all employees in a position of fully disbursed hired workers, without guarantee of minimum employee rights; the Law on privatisation, which paved the way for the sale of national wealth and concentration of capital in the hands of a small number of people, leaving employees without the right and the possibility to participate in the privatisation process in a fair way, only by protecting the rights of foreign and domestic capital owners. The Law on the granting of certain powers to the AP Vojvodina has inconceivable bad consequences for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. The Autonomous Region has once again taken over almost full authority from the state. The Law on Local Self-Government has objectively opened the door to the inequality of citizens in the field of education, health care, culture, since municipalities, due to unequal economic power, will not be able to meet the needs of citizens in these areas. Part of the law in the area of justice has been publicly condemned by all professional public and numerous prominent individuals. The Law on Broadcasting does not protect limited natural resources. No information law has been passed, and the government has provided an absolute monopoly in the information sphere and thus introduced a censorship of electronic and printed media. The situation in this area is further complicated by the lack of the information ministry, as informal media control is carried out under the company's freedom of speech. A package of tax laws has additionally burdened citizens and the economy with new separations. I have listed only the most drastic examples of poor legislative activity and the absence of a development strategy, and there is a long list of legal texts that were or were still under strong criticism by both the professional public and citizens. Seven, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved visible productivity only in establishing its numerous and expensive regional offices, various agencies and funds financed from the budget: the Information Bureau, the Security and Information Agency, the Privatisation Agency, the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, the Agency for the Promotion of State Administration, the Agency for Foreign Investments, the Action Fund, etc., which act as parallel bodies of resolution ministries with great independence and great powers. These agencies work without public insight into their work and their formation certainly do not represent an example of a thrifty and well-organised executive authority. Eight, although the government has made a grave promise that its members will not be members of the boards of directors, they are and receive high cash compensations, in addition to regular incomes. The ninth, it is known that the Constitutional Court has been blocked for 17 months, and the judge's office has been objectively placed on the executive authority and exposed to media pressures. Public polemics and threats by the justice minister addressed to the Supreme Court president and the President of the District Court, as well as the inadmissible threats of individual government members to the president of the federal constitutional court, are not recorded in the country's political life. In this way, neither the court nor the judges can be independent or independent, and therefore civil security, human rights and freedoms are at stake. The 10th, over the past two years in 30 municipalities across the Republic of Serbia, through crisis headquarters, has blocked the work of local self-government, and in the largest number of municipalities where the Socialists have won local authority and under the pretext of the inability to convene constitutional sessions, and sometimes without any explanation, introduced a forced administration and educated a temporary municipal council. In these municipalities, there were no legally valid reasons for the introduction of a forced administration. As far as these moves were against the Constitution and the law and to the detriment of the electoral will of the citizens, the Supreme Court of Serbia's verdict, which annuls the introduction of forced measures in the Municipality of Priboj, also speaks enough. Only that would be enough for the government to fall. The 11th, despite numerous promises, the state administration's reform stemmed from the dismissal of a large number of educated and experienced experts on charges of political belonging to opposition parties, particularly the SPS. At the same time, a number of undercompetent people were engaged according to the Partician criteria, logically, the DOS. Twelve, related to the fight against crime, the promised security of citizens and the efficiency of state authorities in the fight against crime has not been achieved. On the contrary, the number of serious crimes is high, and individual successes are more used for marketing purposes. I must mention that the police minister has repeatedly made public promises and set deadlines for the perpetrators to be caught, but that didn't happen. In order to combat organised crime, the Law on Special Authorities was adopted eight months ago, and a special prosecutor was appointed, a special administration, amended the Criminal Procedure Act. All that wasn't enough for crime to be contained, and criminals to be punished. Eight months ago, just during the debate on the Law on the Prevention of Organized Crime, we were familiar with the public, in some media, articles that could not have been published without the agreement of the MUP, with the existence of several criminal groups and clans in Serbia and with their activity - to deal with the import of drugs, weapons, cigarettes, abductions, extortions, etc. One logical question arises -- if the police knew all this, and legal assumptions were made for the capture and punishment of criminals, why were they waiting? Mr. Zivkovic mentioned the end of the year, when a legal assumption was created on the federal level that these institutionalised forms are beginning to function. If it's even done at the end of the year, why hasn't it been done in three months? In any case, regardless of the answer, the police minister and the government have absolutely not passed the exam on this issue. Thirteenth, economic poverty and social security are increasing, economic activity is in stagnation and all relevant indicators do not suggest leaving the crisis. In January 2003, a decline was recorded in all sectors of production. The main concern is the decline of production in key industries. The company's mutual debts take on the general liquidity situation, while last year's foreign trade deficit exceeds $4 billion. The state and economy owe foreign creditors over $15 billion. When this data is taken into account, it can be concluded that the economy is rapidly losing reproductive capacity and society in general economic independence. According to statistics, about two million people live below the existential minimum, due to a steady and inappropriate increase in electricity prices, housing costs, transport, treatment, basic living needs. Nearly a million people, according to the labour market records, have no employment, and according to government estimates, about 700,000 more workers are fictitiously employed, not to enter the methodology for determining this number. According to government officials, they represent new excessive ones, which will be the first to be hit by ownership transformation. A group of those who first seek employment are 500,000 people. For the problems of this vast army of unemployed governments, there was no solution. New jobs appear only in future plans and projections of future developments. In particular, it worries that half the population of up to 18 years of age lives in poverty. About 1.2 million pensioners exist in poverty, affected by a new pension coordination system, which will be reduced. The accelerated and binding privatisation at all costs takes a toll on the stagnation of the economy and deindustriousisation of the country to the satisfaction of the import lobby. According to the SPS estimates, the economic wealth created for generations is sold in the absence of a new business elite, which without fundamental public control increases its wealth and thus political power and influence. At the same time, about 50 strikes are announced or organised daily in Serbia, and a large number of dissatisfaction workers are suspended. They are, logically, concerned about the fate of their businesses and the existence of their families. Fourteenth, new generations of young people are closing down the very perspective of education and scientific training and this enormous increase in the cost of studying in state schools. The amount of tuition for individual colleges is over 100,000 dinars a year. The availability of education and promotion is drastically narrowed and trampled. More than half of the students enrolled in the past period. Protesting students and educators, demands of university employees and higher schools speak for themselves. As a result of the loss of trust in the perspective of better life, young and educated people leave the country in large numbers. Fifteenth, the government hasn't done enough, in our opinion almost nothing, to highlight claims for war damage. The previous government had a state commission to determine war damage and according to data collected at the time, war damage, directly and indirectly, is about $100 billion. In contrast to the sum, just after October 5th, G-17 gave its assessment of the 28 billion dollar damage, so that individual government representatives would further reduce the sum, which in itself does great harm to the country's interests. Sixteen, the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. The fact is, the government hasn't done anything about this. Resolutions and declarations brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been pushed aside by the government. By calling on a number of Serbs and other non-Albanians to participate in the most problematic and unprepared elections for the Kosovo Assembly, the government has recognised its impotence and lack of strategy. Return of exiled Serbs, Montenegrins, Roma, Turks, Muslims and others to their hearths. Neither the fate of the missing nor the graves of the murdered is known without mentioning the situation around monasteries, churches and other sacral objects. The Security Council Resolution 1244 guarantees the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in the form of Yugoslavia, which is no more, and the Republic of Serbia. It requires a clear state strategy on all issues of co-operation, a strategy on Kosovo and Metohija, which the government does not have. The government has not achieved the goals set in three municipalities in the south of Serbia-Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji, which also questioned the survival of the Serbian and other non-Albanian populations. Albanian separatistism is encouraged by the illegal extension of the census in this area and the early local elections... (President: 20 minutes, MP. Thank you. Here, I'm done. It's not the point of the transmission. [[A voice from the bench: It's a good thing there's no TV transmission.]] Today, a new government is elected, and it's time for the opposition party to say what she thinks about work, and especially for the reasons I've stated...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27009	I ask you not to engage in a dialogue with the MPs of the people and not to receive the messengers of the people. Twenty minutes is twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27010	All right, here I go. Since there are other things that I considered necessary to say, but I don't have time, let me finally repeat the SPS's position again as opposition parties; for reasons that I have cited, and others that I haven't, the SPS will not support proposals to elect a president, vice president and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27011	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here's a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the National Socialists Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'll probably say heresy for some MPs in this room, but I think it's very good that there's no TV transmission. I think it's high time that we, as thinking and responsible people, were, especially at this moment that happened and what caused this meeting of ours, among ourselves, to look back and talk about what we can do to make it better in Serbia, to make it better for the citizens, that families have a much better perspective than we have so far. It's enough that some discussions have shown that each of us is building, or thinks he's building a political career, some personal authority by going out here and just denying everything he doesn't like, not saying what he wants and explaining how it can be done. It's not easy right now, and it's not easy for any of us to go out for this pay phone. The occasion for this gathering here is tragic. A heinous crime is the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and that is essentially the reason this rally is here. Those who announced the government's shift in their presidential campaigns and spoke -- when elected immediately will demand a no-confidence vote -- did not have the courage at all with their twenty and more MPs to apply for a no-confidence vote to the government and such a rally where government would be spoken of did not even call. We from the Socialist People's Party, realizing that some of us are essentially pulling only marketing moves by announcing a vote of no confidence to the government, we have invited everyone to gather and see if there are any 126 of us at all, so if we have to explain that we are not just going to shift the government but we want new extraordinary parliamentary elections, because we didn't want to replace one other who has suddenly become an opposition. The Socialist People's Party is giving full support to state authorities at the moment to root out mafia and crime in this country, and is particularly seeking to expose the perpetrators and particularly organisers of a detestable terrorist act, such as the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic. At the same time, however, we want to point out that there is a phenomenon that this state of emergency, which is desirable only in this sense that I have said forward, is kind of disabling and degraded. I would like to point out that we have experienced in Alexandrovac that the chairman of the Socialist People's Party's Municipal Committee is being brought into the MUP for four hours, searched our premises, confiscated our flyers, the members of the General Committee of our party searched our houses and confiscated the flyers that were made several days before the tragic event and scattered before the tragic event and which only refer to local problems. I am deeply aware that this is a local story, that it has nothing to do with anyone in this room at all, but I want to point out that such moves must not give a chance to anyone else, who may have even started and motivated these tragic events by verbal events, that there is reason to explain that some things are not necessary, and they are really necessary. As far as the government itself is concerned, it is clear that the Socialist People's Party has important concept differences in government. Finally, there is a parliamentary scene in every country, including in the country of Serbia -- that we do not all think the same politically. The conceptal differences are clear, above all in social policy, labour and employment, in the position of workers, in the way of the privatisation process, especially when it comes to monetary policy and the behaviour of Mr Dinkic. I was hoping we'd vote his mistrust very quickly and choose a new governor, and I think it's the only possible path. So there are concept differences. However, this moment requires us to rise from certain events, asking us to talk here about what and how to continue. As far as fact-finding technical work is concerned, and I understand the candidate for prime minister of Serbia, he himself did not want to stand for this speaker, because this is a technical matter, and I expect that just those who voted for Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government, in particular all 170 DOS members, repeat their votes here and show the continuity logical in this regard. This is a technical matter, but we need to talk about today and Serbia's future. A call for stability and peace in Serbia is being sent here. The Socialist People's Party accepts the invitation absolutely. I deeply believe that those who have made the call do not think that the call means absolute support for the government currently elected and the ruling majority in parliament. The call implies, above all, the active inclusion of everyone to change the awareness of Serbian citizens, to erase extremes in the minds of Serbian citizens. There's no good in any citizen, no family. From extreme activity, it's basically just bad. We also have a mission from this pay phone, and from any chair, in any study, to guide our knowledge and our constructiveness, not the devastating messages and the devastating information, which only cause divisions in this country. We are, as a people, essentially now at a crossroads. And this disgusting crime, and this all that's happened, must at least in one direction point and positive, and that's to realize that we have to think more maturely. Every politician, every man who works on his mission, that's the contribution, not absolute and unconditional support to the government at some difficult moment, when it's a state of emergency. The contribution is to each and every one of us's performances and responsibilities, if we say what we don't like, that we must immediately say what we want and which way can it be realized, that we give our knowledge, everyone in our workplace and where we can be engaged. It is the government's obligation that all knowledge and in this assembly make maximum use of what is good, which is high-quality, to support, whether we are now with DOS or against DOS, and not just to deny because someone suggested who we don't like. I experienced this in this congregation of the majority, then 176, to reject the law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Great law, and you all knew it was great, but it wasn't good that the president of one opposition group proposed it at the time, and that law is good quality. Well, we can't act like that anymore. We have to say, when something's right, it's fair to say it's right, and if the government suggested it - good for her, good for her. If something is not good, it has knowledge, expertise, a quality approach to assess what is not good, that we are not good at proposing changes, we are fighting for them, but it is in the government and some majority at that time to accept quality solutions, not to reject them just because some opposition group or opposition MP has proposed. It's just that I think it's a big deal that there's no television transmission, so let's all of us in this room realize that it's good and that we start talking to each other, not to talk about our marketing and personal propaganda in front of the citizens of Serbia, and to sharpen the citizens where there's no need and there's no good for them or their families; but to turn around here, to talk to each other, to say what we think and which way we should go. As for the act itself today, I really expect that the majority who was, absolute, 176, and I think more, who chose the late Prime Minister Djindjic and his government, will remain absolutely consistent, given first of all, and everything that was, and I think about the government's work, it's time to talk when this new government is elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27013	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27014	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite difficult to talk about the results of a government if we choose a new government, not for reasons that the old one has fallen, which has come to a new election, but because its prime minister has been tragically murdered. It's, of course, one terrible thing for a country that we're trying to build. If we talk about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the DSS has a clear view of it and has repeatedly presented it behind this speaker, and on the results of work in general, and in each ministry individually. Through the discussion of the programme and through an analysis of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the DSS MPs will make our remarks on what certain ministers have been doing in the Government of the Republic of Serbia so far. This is especially because it is said that the government proposed is not a new government, but an old government. We thought this was an opportunity to get a different government, ready to take care of the means to achieve a goal that I honestly believe is the same in the largest number of MPs here in this room. The Democratic Party of Serbia agrees with the assessment that opportunities in Serbia are such that Serbia is destabilized at the moment. Serbia has not been destabilised just since last Wednesday, Serbia has been destabilized much longer. Serbia has been destabilized since this parliament lost its legitimacy, Serbia has been destabilised when it lost its president and Serbia has been destabilised because the election for the president is being postponed. We've come into a situation -- and it's very dangerous for the state -- that at some point we haven't had a president of the state, we don't have one yet, we don't have a legitimate parliament and a Prime Minister. For one serious state, you'll admit, that's a lot. This is also a great deal for countries that have stable institutions, a built legal state and a legal system, and let alone for Serbia in this regard only in postpartum. It is therefore very important to do everything possible to stabilise opportunities in Serbia, to come up with solutions that are good and will allow it to continue implementing system reforms. When I say systems, I mean first of all institution reform and the adoption of key system laws. What is also important for the DSS, which it has pointed to in the last two years, since the Gavrilovic case, is an increase in organised crime and the Serbian mafia. We were retaliated that there was no mafia in Serbia, that there was no organised crime in Serbia, as the DSS claimed there was. So what does it mean, according to allegations, that there is an association, a "earth clan", which counts more than 200 members, as they say, under arms, and which acts as one group. Whether it's not organized crime and whether it's not a mob in the sense that she's being right. We felt and warned that these were certainly the consequences of the times behind us, but also the consequences, according to us, of insufficient engagement in the fight against organised crime. This fight against organised crime, we have to admit, was not the extent to which it should have been, there was no fight against smuggling, there was no fight against many other anomalies, and this struggle is crucial to building a stable democratic state. We also stressed the need for the reorganisation of Serbia's MUP, that we need depolitisation and reorganisation. We got something from the reorganisation, but Serbia's depolitisation of Serbia's MUP certainly did not win. It remained as party-organised as it was under Milosevic; there were various political cleanups, unprofessional, without including this assembly. We were talking about civilian security and military control. Those civilian controls were, but they were done by those who gave it to themselves for the right. He was working some kind of national security council. Civilian control has not been carried out, as is known in international law, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the committee in charge. The Republika Srpska Assembly has always been the last to be informed of what is happening in the MUP, and the only deed to the work of the MUP, and in general, of all security services, was the government of the Republic of Serbia. We have come into a situation where the state is destabilized and that all government, and legislative, is concentrated in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We haven't had a Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia in a long time, we don't have a president, and we'll see how long we won't have him. All of this is in favour of our claim that Serbia as a state and before this was highly destabilised, where there was a lot of organised crime, that Serbia had missed the opportunity to deal with crime when it could, that it had missed the opportunity to break the smuggling channels of tobacco, narcotics and everything else, and that there was a very big job ahead of us. This is an opportunity to draw a line behind something done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have not received a report from the government on its work, but this is an opportunity to draw a line and that a new candidate for the Prime Minister - regardless of what he says is not a new government, but to continue where he cares - says what is done in Serbia and that from this exhibit, which has been delivered to us, we see what is about to be done. This is an opportunity to draw a line and in the work of every ministry, to see how it was and what was done. I was talking about the need to review the funds used to achieve a goal that is the same for most MPs in this assembly. We need to see if all the funds were good, whether there were abuses of funds, and if once the funds had become their own goal. Is the state of emergency the right means for what it wants to achieve? Is the state of emergency in the range that's wider than what's being said here, and that's the fight against organized crime and the capture of perpetrators, is it a means to achieve the goal? Is the ban on the flow of information a means to achieve the goal that you have declared? Is deepening the atmosphere of fear a means to achieve the goal that you have declared? Are these the means to achieve the construction of a democratic, free society and the rule of law? Me and the Democratic Party of Serbia personally believe that these are not good funds and that the funds used in the previous time should be given up. The Democratic Party of Serbia, as I said, made a lot of remarks and disagreed with the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia; it could be said that the government's support was being denied in August 2001. The key reason for leaving the government in 2001 was the absence of a fight against organised crime. If someone in the presidential campaign and until then insisted on fighting organised crime, it was the Democratic Party of Serbia; we considered it a key matter for building a democratic and legal state, strong institutions, fighting organised crime and corruption. There was no such thing, unfortunately for us. Whether this is one of these consequences, you can judge for yourself, but the fact is that it wasn't and that the instability that we have at this point in society is something that is very bad and that destroys the very foundations and foundations of this society. We have to look and see where and how we're gonna go. Is this the right way and are these the right means? The Democratic Party of Serbia believes, and has suggested, that a concentration government may be a means to stabilise opportunities in the country, to bring together all those who want good to the state and citizens and to say -- these are the funds we have to use, or -- these are the means that would be most comprehensive at this point. We believe this is not the right way, and the Democratic Party of Serbia will not support the election of the new government of Serbia, Prime Minister Zivkovic, vice presidents and ministers who are proposed. We believe that the results of the previous government were not satisfactory; if this is the continuation of the existing one, we believe that this is not adequate and that it will not bring much good to Serbia. But we expect that the intentions presented in the fight against organised crime and the declared objectives of the state of emergency are achieved to the extent that citizens' rights and the right to political action are not limited, in which the state of emergency will not become itself a goal and a means of dealing with political insinuators and the closure of information flows. In this sense, the Democratic Party of Serbia, as I said during the debate on this agenda, will make objections to the work of the ministries and reasons why it cannot support the same people who are two years and more in power in Serbia to do these jobs again, because we believe this will leave a devastating effect on the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27015	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. We are moving on to a debate in order of the MPs. According to statements for a word in the debate on the choice of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the first to be declared is MP Milorad Mircic, followed by MP Zoran R. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27016	In the period when the state of emergency has been introduced in Serbia, we, MPs, have today on the agenda to elect a new government. The state of emergency is not a reflection of the real, real situation in Serbia, nor of the situation among Serbian citizens. It is more a reflection of the internal state of the ruling coalition and the very fact that this internal state is reflected as the imposed will of the majority, which the DOS currently has in the Assembly, leads to the thinking of every smart, normal man as long as the will is imposed. The announcements we hear from the ruling coalition will continue until the end of April. People, do you realize that by choosing this new government, every democratically-oriented government should make it clear that emergency measures are stopping right now. The state of emergency you have taken in Serbia has simply put all official institutions out of power. We only have one institution that works, it's a police institution. And when this institution functions as a safeguard measure of one state, then we have no judiciary, no parliament, then we have no "d" from democracy. For Serbian radicals, it is surprising that the new candidate for prime minister, proposing the old composition of the government, has not found it appropriate for a critical or self-critical, better said, to refer to all that has happened in Serbia. When it comes to criticism, then a report on the previous work of the government needs you to look back and see where the error was made, to tell this parliament -- a mistake has been made in the work of the previous period here and here; we, not by the composition of the new one, but by the new prime minister, want to correct that error; we are looking for the support of the majority in this parliament. It would be something that would promise that democracy would come in some way in the coming period in this Serbia. No, gentlemen, you are insisting that the previous period has been a good period, as the government has done, that the ministers have personally advocated that here is a minister today, according to the new candidate for prime minister, to sign a contract with the Dutch on some millions of euros. What's that for? That we're fooling ourselves. Without TV transmissions, there is no such marketing, unless you think tonight the Serbian Radio Television will make a marketing use of it. Gentlemen, if nothing else, then you should have taken this opportunity to look back at the Home Office's work. By proposing or continuing the continuity of a person who has been on the post so far, you acknowledge that you are powerless in the fight you are announcing against crime. The logic of things says, if there was a murder of the Prime Minister in this country, then, if anything, for moral initiatives or reasons, the interior minister should offer his resignation. If the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Serbia has already done so, then the federal minister should do so. The federal minister is now proposed for a new prime minister. We don't mind, but at least that act that we saw, that will, that wish. No, the Republic Minister is still threatening to arrest, to liquidate. This same republican minister, a while ago, was killed by one of his first associates, and he said he was going to tear the earth and the sky and find the killer; he didn't find it. Now the threat will be arrested and liquidated. When using protective measures like this, gentlemen, simply no one can draw a line between the counter-crimes you announce and the charge against political or presumed political opponents. You can't pull that line. That's what we heard from the candidates for the new Prime Minister. He warned the opposition about what to do in the coming period, as we Serbian radicals understood, not in the period during which these emergency measures and emergency situations in Serbia rule, but in the next period until the full term of office of this government, the opposition must be co-operative, he must listen, because by his inaction or act he will be directly found guilty by this government. Gentlemen, take care, this is a turning point for Serbia, this is a moment where you have to look back a little bit and self-critically. You have not said a single word about your co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Remember, gentlemen, as far as we Serbian radicals have warned you, don't do it, don't do it against the law, against the constitution of arresting Serbs in Serbia and taking them to The Hague. You laugh and take it, as you say, when some Serb goes to The Hague and you're happy, because the IMF promised you a new aid. That help is gone. We can help ourselves in Serbia. Let us turn to ourselves, and we warn you, this initiative of the Serbian Radicals to launch the government's responsibility since May 2002, as of May 21st, is more specifically said. Look at what we warned you about and you'll see where the causes and reasons for all this happened in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27017	The word has the People's MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, followed by MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27018	Ladies and gentlemen, of course we would be held to discuss the Government of the Republic of Serbia at some other time, in another day or 10 days earlier, not today. The atmosphere created by the fact that a crime has been committed against the Prime Minister has certainly greatly affected the possibility of discussing the results of the government's work in the previous two years in a much more studio way. No matter how much we all do, the effort to get away from it or to look at real life, and life goes on, but the fact that it was committed murder, it remains like a normal situation, and we all have that in mind. The SPS 10 days earlier or just 10 days ago at the meeting of the General Committee launched an initiative to replace the Republic government. The initiative to replace the Republic government is, of course, the result of one overall, comprehensive analysis of the work of all ministries and government in general. She did not refer to the work of the Prime Minister, but to the government as a whole, each ministry as a matter of fact. Starting with this initiative of statements in it for the change of government, given that the prime minister here has proposed the same government position, and therefore the same programme, the same ministers and the same people that we have launched an initiative to change this government, it is logical that the SPS cannot support that government. It is not about the mandater, but we believe that the project did not produce the results needed at this time in Serbia. Of course, and that's not it, it's ligious for DOS to provide the majority for the choice of its government. If that's not there, then it's not the ruling majority, so we're not expected to think differently than not to vote for this government's election. Today, however, when we talk about a new manner, and the same government, we are talking objectively in difficult conditions. Not because there's no TV transmission, but we're still talking about it in emergency conditions. We are still talking in conditions where each word can be measured in a different way and when the emergency situation objectively on the ground relates differently to different political parties and political entities. You see, these days are, for example, election campaigns in Serbia. They've been delayed somewhere, and they've stayed somewhere. DOS conducts election campaigns, organises gatherings, and opposition parties must not do so because they can be banned because of it. Now I got a memo from the White Church where three DOS members, along with an armed police officer, broke into the SPS rooms and took over the SPS premises. Is that using a state of emergency? Can that be in these conditions that we're in? Is that why the state of emergency was introduced? Whether an emergency has been introduced to address the question of finding murderers and criminals or to abuse the state of emergency to deal with political opponents. We want to believe that this is the first thing, that it's an emergency to get to the killer, to solve a crime. Not just this one, but every other crime. If this is the second, then this parliament no longer has the power to function. If the state of emergency has been imposed for finding murderers, then today, when this government is formed, the state of emergency should not exist. There's no more reason for that. The government is formed or will be formed today, it is beginning to function and other laws adopted in this Parliament and which are in line with some European standards must be respected. You can't, because we want to find every last criminal in Serbia, talk about the state of emergency being a month, two next, and that everyone who does a job is thinking about whether or not he can work. You'll see at the end of the month what produced a state of emergency in the economy, how many businessmen travel, how many businessmen do, how many businesses take action to function and work normally. That'll be reflected at the end of the month. That is why, as an SPS, with all calls for abstention - and I agree that this is easier to say today when the session is closed, than if it were open, I would not say that there is an open session - and in these conditions in which Serbia is located, when the Prime Minister is killed (and that is not a loss, and we have said that several times, only for the family, but also for the state; in every country when the Prime Minister is killed, whether they were a position or opposition, it is a loss and it is not disputed), we have a obligation to ask that we also think about this and when the government is formed to end the state of emergency. There's no reason for that. When we proposed to the Government of National Unity or the Joint Government, it was commented differently, of course because of the elections, etc. Okay, if we want the state of emergency to last a month, then we need to form a government of the people's unity today that will last a month, so let the government be formed by the parliamentary majority, if you don't want elections or if there are enough parliamentary majority for that power. Let all political parties that have received citizens' trust in the state of emergency ensure the functioning of the government. That makes sense, in every country, it would be logical, or we could end the state of emergency. Why are we still against this government's election? Today we received a paper by which a number of MPs resigned and it is found to be a normal thing under Article 88(1), paragraph 2, etc., that's fine. However, there is one problem, the SPS has initiated a number of resignations from its MPs that are no longer MPs or are no longer members of the SPS, but it does not come to the agenda of this assembly. Does this mean that some MPs, who need the ruling part of the DOS regime, when they resign, have failed to resign, remain seated in benches and are giving lectures here. When some people have to leave another party, for other reasons, we get their resignations immediately. Of course they're the only ones who have to leave. It's not a question of parliament, it's an executive. The executive government is working to change the relationship of forces in parliament here and MPs who are not MPs are detained, and since that executive power is the same, of course, that is the only reason why we could not support this government, which is the same government that was yesterday. In order for the government to function, it must also help parliament function normally, or rather say parliament reflects the ratio of force in the field, as it was in December 2000, when it comes to political parties. Unless, of course, some deserve to be no more MPs or not to be parliamentary parties, and that's possible. That's not controversial, but there's got to be enough arguments for that. When it comes to the Privatization Act at all, the prime minister here spoke of the need to turn social property into private property, I must tell you that this is not disputed. I don't even think it's at all controversial here in parliament, and that's not at any political party, at any of the MPs' clubs, or any political entity in parliament. The SPS believes there is a need, that there are obligations that make for rapid privatisation and transformation. The question is how, where are these rights of workers, where are the influences of workers, what are they doing with tenders, which are privatised companies, at which price, which are individuals and people buying these companies and whether it will not happen at the end of this transformation process to make five or six individuals the owners of 70% of those companies that have been sold conditionally sold. We are now seeing that some authorities have bought several of these companies in significant positions in public enterprises, such as the labour market director. That's what this is about. No one here in the assembly, I'm convinced of that, so neither the SPS is against privatisation. On the contrary, we are for privatisation, accelerated, but that includes workers' rights and respect for some norms of normal behavior. The need for health care has already been discussed here; you know, let's just take this information that in two-and-a-half years since this 60-dollar government's arrival, as set out for health care, it's now literally detached in this year 32 dollars per capita for investment and the result in health institutions is clearly visible. Only those in hospitals are treated, not those who are sick, and consider themselves required to go and examine themselves. Therefore, we are for free health insurance, we are for good conditions in health care institutions, but unfortunately the current situation is completely different and has arisen as a result of the government's work which in the area has given what it has given in those areas. Of course, if I wasn't talking about the situation in agriculture, I wouldn't take too much time away from my friends; you know, there's no agricultural product that has the same price as it did in 2000. Someone's gonna say, well, it needs to be bigger. No, there is no agricultural product that is not cheaper than 50 to 150% on the market. Take anything, potatoes, corn, raspberries, blackberry, and I guess we'll hear from our comrades how much raspberry or blackberry was worth two years ago, and what it's worth now, and you know it. Therefore, this is the result of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Vesenov, who is now not here and how to support this minister who halved the incomes of a peasant household, abolished various grants of agricultural products, not to mention subsidies, oil, and now needs the same minister to move on, although the potatoes that were worth 10 dinars two years ago are now worth three dinars, to support themselves in this government. So it's not a question of concept, it's a matter of personal solutions in the ministries themselves and the withdrawal of moves, and those moves have been taken by certain ministers in these two years behind us, which is why we have such criticism and we don't think we can support this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27019	The People's MP Dragan Marsican has the word, and after that, MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27020	It is becoming more and more difficult, less and less reason to report for a word in this authority of the Republic of Serbia, since it is both illegal and illegal, that it has not become for these two years, as it was not until two years ago, a place where debate would be held. Of course you all know here, so of course I know, I'm just saying, talking to the deaf. The fact that the talks of the deaf are being conducted in this congregation has led the country to this situation in which we are today. Today, gentlemen, I think of you who are proposed by the new Republic Government, on you is full and exclusive responsibility for the state in which you have brought the citizens of this country. We won't agree on the assessment of the situation, so you'll be proud to say that this will be the government of continuity. Is that good news or bad news for Serbia? According to everything we've been saying about the work of the Republic government... I ask the President to respect the Rules of Procedure and the reminders of MPs who receive from the Council (Gales); thank you for the intervention. ... what we have seen as a state in the country today, for the DSS is a statement by the mandater, Mr Zivkovic, that the old, new government will continue to work in the same way, according to the same principles, the same methods, with the same goals, bad news for Serbia. So, gentlemen, as long as you don't realize that the state is in a dramatic crisis, in something that can be too wordless, but it seems to me that it describes the state quite closely, until you realize that it's in a state of chaos, one bad news will catch up with another. You act like nothing's actually happening, like you're solving some of your personal problems, not the problems you've brought the state and the citizens of this country into. So you're looking for a way out, and I understand fear, fear and life, fear of losing power, it's all normal human fears, but I don't understand so much refusal to face the reality of the state. It's like I'm listening to Free Milosevic here today -- I have no intention of changing anything. That's how the prime minister repeats - we have no intention of changing anything. Everything will be just like it was. Until a month or two ago, when we talked about the state being in a political crisis, then in a social crisis, when we warned about what to do, when we were making proposals, the answer from this same place where we hear today that the crisis period is ending, it was -- there's no crisis, what kind of crisis you're talking about, the government is stable. It's like the government is a state, a citizen, and the government is full, and the citizens are hungry. The government may have 126 here, but there are no 126 among the citizens. There is a crisis in the country, and the government can work for a month or two, three, only the consequences will be worse for the country. I am talking about the old government, because it will continue to work, with a logical refreshment in the image of Mr. Zivkovic, Mr. Jovanovic, who will certainly make a very significant contribution to the continuity of the government's work, which has already been demonstrated by work and engagement. These proposals themselves cannot be disputed at all, no doubt they are fully in line with the declared continuity. What that continuity will represent. This will be the continuity of the government's unconstitutional work, the violation of the Constitution, the illegal, irresponsible work of the Government, the continuity of destructive policy, and in essence, what we have been saying for months now, the continuity of the government's truly anti-reform action. In this regard, the future prime minister, if elected, as well as the vice-president of the Republic government, Mr Jovanovic, will make a full contribution. We know what the situation in Serbia is like. If this isn't a topic for the DSS long ago, we have no reason to talk about long-defeated political opponents, then we're talking about what the situation is today, what the state of this old -- the new government inherits from itself. The institutions are broken down, starting with this one, to everyone else. Should we talk about the situation in the judiciary and the fact that the courts don't actually work today, and the cases are piling up? Instead of the rule of law, we have a struggle between some political parties and criminals who will actually be the government in Serbia. The economy is collapsing, production is not growing enough in one month or stagnating in general compared to the same period last year. Direct foreign investment is incomparably less than necessary, less than planned, and only now, by the logic of things, in a period of emergency, in a state like this, cannot it be completely natural. What foreign investor is coming to invest in this country? There'll be some customers. I have no doubt that tobacco factories will be sold at all, and that there will be all the appropriate fees, that this price will be lower than necessary. Of course, it will be logical because investors calculate the risk with which they invest and enter [[Dropping out of the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27021	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive the speaker and to respect the Rules of Procedure, and I ask that he too respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27022	Thank you for the intervention. Since I haven't seen what I've broken him into, I'm going to try not to do it anymore. What grows, your fear and unemployment rises, deficits, budget and foreign traffic deficits. Unfortunately, there's no growing standard, there's no talking about dozens of percent. Let's at least hear the exact information. Mr. Djelic didn't realize he was coming. Unfortunately, there are no talks on dozens of percent of real personal income growth. It's something that can be some of our far-off goal, but it's certainly not reality today. Only in the shortest, state of education, in health, in science, in culture, is there any idea there, is there any project, plan, anything in these areas? Absolutely dead sea, nothing's going on. You're aware of that, gentlemen. Let's at least listen to each other in these moments. Tell me what he's got. There are paid projects through acquaintances and connections, but there are no changes in the area of culture. Let's face it, let's face it. There's chaos in the judiciary, and that's what we've been talking about for months. Not to mention the pressures of the executive authority on the legislative and serious problems that caused it. In one word, gentlemen, you have brought the country into a state of emergency and finally declared a state of emergency unconstitutional and illegal. What's the right goal is to see. Many speakers have touched that today. If it is the aim of fighting criminals, then I don't know why this fight against crime, until a month ago you absolutely claimed it wasn't there, leads against those organized criminal groups that are not loyal to the government and are not being fought against the entire organized crime that exists in the country. You make a difference and you form criminal groups, you directly participate in the criminalization of society in this way. There's either organized crime, or he's fighting it...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27023	National MP, for statements about direct participation in the criminalisation of society, I will remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no matter how much emotion you bring in the speech, justified by the care for the fate of the country, I will remind you that you are obliged to present the true information for the assembly speaker. To accuse Members of Parliament, without arguments and based on emotion, for participation in the criminalization of society, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so I ask you to remember its provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27024	Mrs. Komic, I did not point out any objections to the MPs, but to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Please pay more attention to the words of the honourable MPs from this pay phone. I pointed out the arguments that I supported that the government, by making a difference between organised criminal groups, contributed to the criminalisation of society. That's what I supported with arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27025	I give you the first warning, after warning of disrespect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27026	So since this is the case and since these are facts, you have introduced a state of emergency to eliminate the causes, and the cause is a threat to the work of the state authority. Today we heard here that the government normally works, that the situation is regular, that the situation is quite good, and that obviously there are no reasons for introducing a state of emergency. Well, let's put that aside. I understand what we can talk about here, but I'm asking a question -- what does it have to do with removing an internal one, not speaking external, TV transmission with the achievement of the emergency objective? Would such speeches or those more moderate from this pay phone hinder the capture of those responsible for crime in Serbia? Of course not. So it's about abolishing media freedom. Of course, it's not so much about constraint, to keep myself on limits, political freedoms. These are the real objectives of introducing an emergency, in an unconstitutional and illegal manner. Of course, the state of emergency will be lifted, so we'll talk about this another way. In the end, several questions, Prime Minister, to whom I would like to ask an answer. They're quite easy, you don't have to write them down. - Is he convicted? - Will the action against crime spread to other known crime groups, which the interior minister was talking about, I mean the Surcin group? - Will he suggest eliminating those emergency measures concerning the suspension of political freedoms and freedom of information, since they have nothing to do with achieving the goal of bringing about an emergency, which is catching criminals? - Was he or the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Jovanovic, in an unsatisfactory facility for several days illegally collapsing in Zemun?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27027	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27028	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is in a major political, economic, social and moral crisis today. The period of this government is characterized by too many promises and too few promises made; it is characterized by too much demagogy and too little democracy; too much hatred, too little tolerance; too little exclusion, too little dialogue; too much self-destruction and too much self-destruction. Today in Serbia, everything is politicized. Instead of depoliticalizing society, we've experienced full politicization of health, education, judiciary, police, human disasters, life, everything. Instead of sharing people with good and bad, today we share them according to the belongings of political parties. This government was more important in the pursuit of political opponents and non-insects, rather than the fight against organised crime. We warned you of a well-intentioned pastime of the mob. You didn't believe it. Now that there's been a crime, you've now realized how serious it is. Today you are proposing a new mandater, yet it is a limited narrow party interest, even though you yourself are aware that this is not an adequate solution to such a difficult and complex situation in which the country is located. This proves that you are no match for the time in which you live and that your narrow-minded, personal interests are in front of your collective consciousness, and the democratic principles you swear on are just political manipulation. It's not yours, gentlemen of the DOS, to impose your will on the people, but to respect the will of the people. This government is no longer the will of the people of Serbia, and you must bear that in mind. This government is not even the government of experts, as Mr Djindjic once said. When he said that someone believed it, no one believes it anymore. The government in Serbia acts as a losing gambler and then invests constantly to recover the lost and loses until the complete disaster. I don't want to, and I don't think anyone wants to, Serbia with a government that thinks they trust the people, but they don't. I don't want Serbia with the government that set out at the beginning to attribute all its failures and delusions to someone else or some past time. I do not want Serbia with a government that sees the opposition as an enemy, not as a political opponent with which it will create and pave the way for a new Serbia. In the end, I don't want Serbia with an opposition that sees the fight for power first as a possibility of revenge, remandism and some retaliatory persecution. I want to experience that in this Serbia someone like that infamous Franco who used to say -- build that cemetery, bury everyone there, they all fought for Spain. Will we once be able to experience a man who will know how to say - everyone has fought and everyone is fighting for Serbia. Are we as a nation to define our national interest and once we know what is not for sale, surrender and division in this country? Gentlemen of the DOS, it is your great responsibility today, not to let your personal and party interest be in front of the interests of the people and the state and of excessive self-loathing and political dictatorship historically become the culprits of Serbia. The only cure in this situation, in this growing political tensions, is -- new parliamentary elections, which inevitably lead to a calming of tensions, give a break and allow some new government to reach air, so that it can bring something new into Serbia's current situation. The state of emergency has only delayed the escalation of the people's dissatisfaction that will escalate and explode the moment you end it, and then I'm afraid you won't have time to vote, or you'll re-introduce the state of emergency and become the first democratic government in the world to rule by an emergency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27029	The word has a folk MP Branko Ruzic, followed by Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27030	Dear fellow MPs, on the agenda of today's session, we have a very important issue with the government of the Republic of Serbia and its mandate, as a consequence of a tragic event on March 12th of the current year. In this way, the raised question obliges us, above all, as politically responsible people, that in an argumentable civilised debate, leaving some of our emotions aside, we point to the facts that guide us to determine ourselves on this particular political issue. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes, with respect for the very clearly shown directions of action of the DOS, that DOS has taken the wrong path that will not lead us all to the goal. We believe that, at the current political moment, a far more appropriate solution is to form a transitional government, given above all the need for political stability and the need to sail into more peaceful political waters. The transitional government, which would consist of all relevant political factors in Serbia, would be the product of the broadest political consensus, would have significant strength and specific weight, would bear the burden of a transitional period to the elections and show the citizens of Serbia, as the top political arbiter, which we must never interfere with from the mind, that politics can be dealt with responsibly in Serbia despite political differences. The SPS MPs will vote against the proposal of the acting president of the Republic of Serbia, concerning the new prime minister and the new one. an old cabinet, for principled and political reasons. If the concept of government is the continuity of an earlier policy that comes down to the term of reform, behind which much is hidden and is not in the interest of Serbian citizens, it is clear why the Socialists are against it. Of course, we have no reason not to realize that this is exactly the kind of policy that continues, because that is what you are declaring these days through your now most controlled media. The SPS advocates the development of democratic institutions, the state of social justice, the society of equal chances, the rights of workers to free primary health care, free education, while the effect of the policy of your current government, and I am sure and future, can be pictured by the following facts: your government has no legitimacy and how you encourage yourself - majority support; you are resuspending democratic principles, the Constitution and the laws and the support deficits by replacing the stolen mandates, thus repealing the electoral will of citizens. You've ruled until now, and probably from now on, by regulations, to avoid a minimum of democratic control. With the labour law, you have placed employees in the status of disbursed hired workers, and you have practically made it impossible for young people to get to work, the largest number. The Privatisation Act has made it impossible for social justice to privatise which the Socialists advocate, and these workers themselves are entitled to participate in the privatisation process in an adequate manner. Companies are introduced into bankruptcy in order to devalue the book value of capital. So-called The omnibus law strengthens separatist aspirations in Vojvodina. The Law on Local Self-Government suspends the principle of solidarity and equality and places citizens in areas of education, health care, culture, for reasons of unequal economic strength of municipalities. The Amnesty Law has brought pardon to terrorists from Kosovo and Metohija and the south of Serbia. There is also a perfidious manipulation of the Information Act that is not adopted, while the government provides an absolute monopoly in the field of information. Economic activity is in stagnation in all sectors of production. A fall was recorded in January 2003. There is a constant and inappropriate increase in electricity prices, housing costs, transport, treatment and so on. consumer baskets. Radically reduced state isolation for health care, about 50%. The scholarships reach a level above 120,000 dinars for individual colleges. There is no comprehensive, diplomatically wise, national and state-based approach to resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issues. Government policy must also have its human face, in order for the Socialists to recognise at least a minimum of compatibility with their programming principles. Following argument, the Socialists cannot support this concept of government. Your approach to solving the current political crisis is legitimate and certainly useful for you in the short term. However, such an approach is politically shortsighted and lacks rationality and wisdom. The state of emergency following the election of this new -- the old governments should logically be abolished, especially if it is borne in mind that the reason for introducing an emergency state is to fight crime, for which there is the broadest political consensus of all relevant political factors, including the SPS. I'm not sure that you need the risk of suspending some essential political rights under the state of emergency, and also - whether you need, as declared Democrats, a unified, one-way media image, an introverted approach to the production of virtual reality, in which only you can and want to believe. Do you need some villains to honor idolatry or media distaste? Do you, as Democrats, want to be branded as the creators of a single-party state? Is political stability achieved by polarising citizens and dividing Asian and European Serbia? If you, as the Democratic Party, who took great responsibility for yourself, for which you of course deserve recognition, but without a clear outcome, do not give your actions answers to these questions, the political reality and the time that is going on will certainly give you, and I just want you not to be in a position to suffer from late-sense syndrome at that moment. Serbia, Serbia's citizens and Serbia's political scene need wisdom, measure and a minimum of mutual trust, regardless of political differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27031	The word is made by MP Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27032	Dear Mr. Zivkovic, representatives of the government, respected chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, it is painful and difficult to talk about the new government when it is a new-old government and when the debate on it was brought about by a tragic moment called the death of a man, a man with whom I was 13 years, or until 1989, made an opposition in Serbia. But life goes on, the state continues to live. After October's events, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not take full seriously the state of security in which the country is located. It was easy to go over the fact that the basic condition for implementing any reform and improving the elimination of organised criminal groups, their connection with police, military and political work. Organized crime has been emerging and developing in the last decade. He didn't commit suicide, he didn't come up yesterday, but he's made up and real from a former political centre, i.e. From above. However, we must realise that he has survived, and he could not without tolerance, and perhaps also support the work of the government, a band of political parties, influential businessmen, and the state and its authorities. Simply, state and government are modus vivendi organized crime. The current government in Serbia has not objectively seen whether there is criminal co-operation with organised crime carriers in the government, ministries, local self-government authorities, police, judiciary, prosecutors and customs. These relationships existed, they continued, and they had to be stopped decisively, and all the measures that would cleanse and stabilize the country would be taken in a timely manner. I must say that in the last year of the report, from politicians' statements, it was difficult to cope, whether there is crime in Serbia or not. At one point, it was fully bid on the number of groups of criminal or criminal, so the official MUP estimated there were 150. Mr. Zivkovic, you claimed to be between 100 and 200. General Police, Knezevic, goes as far as 300 crime groups. However, the question arises -- is the mafia defeated in our country? Now I will read certain statements, which is why the DSS will not be able to vote for you, as prime minister, and for the government. On July 8, 2002, Mr. Zivkovic, you made a statement that the Serbian mafia, in its original form, does not exist, is definitely a broken link between politicians and criminals and it is freely said that the mafia does not have its own state. Also, it has been said that there are certain criminal groups in your hometown, but immediately then you make up and say that Belgrade is the safest metropolis in Europe, even suggest that one of the ways to fight organised crime be accompanied by criminals, popularly referred to as "Japanese escort". Also, the late prime minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic, was naive and did not see the great evil that threatens, threatened him and threatened us. He claimed that the mafia was systematically defeated because there is no longer any connection between it and the authorities. Also, the respected chairman said that the top of organised crime is octopus, which after 5 October 2000 lost its head, and that what is now seen is its last scream. It was given on July 8, 2002. However, organised crime had to be put in the way. This had to be done because organized crime tends to create its own order. He has his own institutions, which can outgrow and cross the institutions of the state. The tendency of this form of crime is to violate the principles, which are state principles, and to come to the place of politics. It had to be done sooner. This government proposal, or Mr. Zivkovic's proposal, is completely specific, as he said, is actually an old-new government, it is old by composition, but we must admit that it is weakened by one great authority, the authority of Mr. Djindjic. Weak like this, it will come against its hope, without a certain strategy, to fight organised crime, and I must say that emergency is not a strategy. It is an expression of the current reaction and of the sudden face-to-face with the serious illness that has affected us and which we entered on October 5th, which is organized crime. The state of emergency is essentially a defense against some broader aggression that affects all citizens in one part of the territory, but still it must not be the form under which it will be placed and which will cover everything that has not been done, and it should be in a normative sense. And finally, let me say that the support that would be expressed by 126 or 128 at this point cannot stabilize the country. She can only be stabilised by the widest political agreement. Finally, very tragically and painfully across the country, it turns out that up until a week ago there was a problem, whose solution, unfortunately, had to begin with the death of one of the great politicians. No parties, no government, no ability, no way to solve this. We note, the moment is too difficult for anyone to bear the burden himself. However, those who do not want to see the necessity and reject the country's widest agreement on the future, I must remind them once again, move towards political monism, level themselves with all the criteria of value, and finally with the state itself. We must avoid such an ugly experience from the near past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27033	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27034	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Zivkovic, the Serbian Radical Party, as you have heard from the deputy president of the parliamentary group, Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, will not support you, as the new prime minister for the composition of the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor the personal composition of the people who have been in the leading resolutions in our country so far, for the simple reason that we believe that both your choice and the choice of the entire old-new government are being made under non-regular conditions. These irregular conditions have long existed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we have pointed to this as long as you have served as federal interior minister, and it concerns the parliamentary mandates that were kidnapped by individual parliamentary groups and the situation in which the National Assembly found itself, to call again and to include in the work of MPs who resigned on their own last June 13th. What was happening at DS-DSS, conflicts within the DOS, have largely occupied the entire Serbian public over the past two and a half years, in a situation where misery and poverty grew bigger and bigger, when workers, tens of thousands of them, one move by the ministers present, were fired from work one night. There's been a new discharge. The living standard of the population has fallen so much that today a million and a half people, according to your official statistics, can barely survive and satisfy the minimum of existence, have become increasingly clear that political tensions have increased, especially that organized crime is and that the degree of crime in the Republic of Serbia is so great that citizens have started to fear because of it and to observe with a chill what will happen next. I come from Kragujevac where, unfortunately, many people have lost their jobs, where the economy suffered a complete economic collapse, but besides all that, and the misery and scarcity that people were drawn to their necks, what shook them the most in 2002 was that the killings reached a higher degree than in 2001 by 400%, which never happened in one such city, with so many inhabitants, in the centre of Serbia, in the heart of Shumadia. A moment ago, the man you suggested to be Minister of the Interior left here in a hurry and in the next period. At a time of emergency, he should be the one who is the most responsible, when he has not resigned, should have, following the tragic event and the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and did not find it appropriate to address the public with concrete data and to say what he is like Dusan Mihajlovic is willing to do to curb such crime in the country. I responsibly claim as a representative of the Serbian Radical Party, led by a man who will, above all by the DOS, and then by an enemy from The Hague tribunal, finds himself in The Hague, that Dr Vojislav Seselj was in good condition at the time and was the only one, ready to point out that many criminal gangs have organized themselves in our country and are ready, not far from anything, to commit the greatest crimes. So Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic urged all persons who have information about the murders that occurred back 7, 8 or more years to inform the public. Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj is prepared, as well as any MP of the Serbian Radical Party, who has been responsible for the Assembly's speech and everywhere in Serbia, wherever we appear, on any local media, announced and told who are the murderers of Momir Gavrilovic, a former member of the state security, who was killed after he left the cabinet of former SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica, who today has been unwittingly, half the man not to understand what he is saying; then, who are the murderers of Slavka Ćuruvija, Radovan Stojčić - Badže, and afterwards proved to be right when Dr. Seselj announced immediately who are the former Deputy Chief of Public Security Resor. Now you are proposing, with all the other shortcomings that some of them have, and all the ministers from the proposed cabinet, that Dusan Mihajlovic continue to be in this so responsible position. Not only will that not only contribute to the stabilisation of all political opportunities in our country, but with great chills, I can say that, and so do the citizens of Serbia, the instability caused by this way of introducing an emergency, the counter-constitutional introduction and this way of choosing the government, will not bring Serbia's citizens well, it will not bring to the whole state, and therefore we think that the only way out of the current crisis would be without some other evil, it would be to call the elections nicely and that people would give their assessment and their judgment about what you were doing back two and a half years ago. So, the position in which our entire Serbian people and the threats that come to us all the time, demands from our enemies, not our friends, who do not want us well, will become bigger and bigger and other separatist appetites will increase, and the people will live in misery, in despair, unable to change anything themselves, because it has to do one new, different and more responsible government, much more responsible and more successful than yours has ever been.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27035	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetic has the word, and after him, the MP of the people, Zoran M. Nikolic. Given the dropping out of the O.R., I hear it's a time notice, the total time available to the MPs is another 63 minutes, and I think we can continue our work, because today will be the day to vote, so we don't expect this debate to be extended beyond what is a business time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27036	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia will not support the election of a new one or as some of the old governments have said. Serbia is in a deep economic, social, political and state crisis today. We are not convinced that the composition of this government will be able to solve a number of accumulated problems. The Prime Minister's candidate, however, touched a few questions, and some open questions did not even mention it, so I would take the opportunity to ask him these questions and hear his answer. Speaking of the most important state issues, Zoran Zivkovic said Kosovo and Metohija are an eternal topic. We agree, but he did not tell us how we will solve or how the new government will solve the Kosovo and Metohija problem, because the already seen scenario is at work, the conditional independence of Kosovo and Metohija. It is a seen proposal by the international crisis group in which Wesley Clark, Martti Ahtisaari and numerous Serbian enemies are. Covic is talking about Kosovo and Metohija's conditional independence on the threshold. We are interested in what this government, which calls itself democratic, will do on the most important state issue of Serbia. The mandate said nothing about problems in southern Serbia, where both terrorism and separatism of Albanian and terrorist and separatists are evident. Today we can rightly ask DOS authorities why they called the election when we only lost Bujanovac to these elections. Nothing has been said about possible problems in Vojvodina, where the draft basic law was brought and where we clearly see hidden separatism and Kasa and Chanka. Of course, such a well-conceived government will hardly be able to stand up, as it is from these MPs, Cassin and Cankov, that depends on the survival of this government. There is little said about the launch of production, about the economic situation in the country. Today it's all stopped, all the factories, businesses. Everything is so much worse than in times of war and sanctions. How will a number of unemployed people be employed? Now there are about a million of them, and Minister Vlahovic announced a few days ago that there will be as many as one hundred thousand without a job in the next few months. What will the government do about these very important issues; gentlemen, you must know, you came to power the most because you told the people -- it will be a better life, we will solve all economic and social problems. Of course, there's another story for you now, everything's hard, but I've said it a few times in the Assembly, and you've denied it, you've accepted the concept of the International Monetary Fund, the concept of structural adjustment. This concept is devastating and has proved to be devastating in all the countries around us. That concept is still in play today. It's a shut-down of domestic production. We are aware of where our agricultural production is, what are the prices of agricultural products. Discussing workers, abolishing social giving, restructuring of public affairs and public enterprises, is all at work. So that concept is devastating, but the same concept you obviously accepted. Also said here, Zoran Zivkovic said he would continue the reform course when it comes to legislative activities. According to us, there has been nothing reforming in the past two years when it comes to key laws. The labour law is the most tragic law passed in this congregation. The workers are totally disfigured. The Privatisation Act is equally devastating because everything is sold out for a reason. New laws are announced, as a law on employment. As the Labour Act and the Privatisation Act were tragic for all employees, the new employment law will be tragic for all unemployed. The few rights they enjoy now will be abolished: financial benefits, insurance, and, above all, health insurance. So there was nothing reforming. The Mandator said that pensions are regular now, and we have a pension backlog for three months. The new system provided by Bozidar Djelic, so-called The Swiss system will lead to this and has already led to the average pension of 60% of the average salary, and will go even worse and even more unfavourable for the pensioners themselves, because it is such a system. So, three-month alignment with 50% wage growth and 50% cost growth (from the gym-no TV transmission). Never mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27037	I ask the People's MPs not to throw it out of the bench and this is the last oral reminder before giving the measure in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27038	The Prime Minister's candidate didn't say anything about The Hague. Zoran Zivkovic, I think, said at the meeting of the General Committee - full co-operation with The Hague. It's absolutely unacceptable for us. The Hague is a political court for Serbs, you must finally understand. There are only Serbs in The Hague, there is no command responsibility for Serbs. After all, it seems to me that Zoran Djindjic said a few days or weeks ago that there would be no more extradition of Serbs under command responsibility. If we are talking about some command responsibility, if we are talking about some planned crimes, they were in the previous Yugoslavia, but you know where - with Croatian leaders who have driven 500,000 Serbs away with their sword. Those were planned crimes. There is a command responsibility of Ali Izetbegovic, who is the direct commander of the Patriot League. It's that command responsibility. There was no command responsibility among Serbian politicians and Serbian generals. Therefore, we ask this government to stop any co-operation when it comes to the UN tribunal. In the end, the personal composition of this government does not give us confidence. I'll just say about the Minister of Energy, Kori Udovicki, who says, sell the apartments and pay for the electricity. There are many more examples. So we're not voting for this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27039	The word is by MP Zoran M. Nikolic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today one of the heads of Parliament has said that perhaps because they're going to say that it's a good thing there's no TV transmission. I don't think it's heresy and he's got it and he's gone. I think he better have it. I don't want to challenge his right to opinion, but I find this guy's statement hypocritical when he comes from a parliamentary group whose boss he is. There are opposition and opposition in this House. I went into politics in 1989-1990 as a student. I realized we needed to rebuild the state. I have chosen to be a Democrats, and I will always be. I can't argue with anyone's right to an opinion. I want to make it clear if someone's a hypocrite. It's good to call on all the extremities in this country to be quiet. It should take good care of who's talking, because if it says who called the prime minister for his Croatian background two and a half years ago, it should be imagined if he has a moral right to suppress such extremes. I don't think so. Like I said, the mildest possible word is hypocrisy. I want to say that I am a Democrats and, as I do not correct others' right to give their opinion, no matter what happens in the future, I expect that no one, who belonged to the ruling guard or the opposition, will dispute either me or the DSS. We said the government wasn't doing well; that certain ministries weren't doing well. I can't argue otherwise today, but that the government wasn't doing well; what was good, we said it was; what wasn't good and what was to be fought against had to be approached sooner and more seriously, that's what I'm saying today. It's a tragic death of the Prime Minister. It's not good for the state and the consequences certainly feel. Unfortunately, the death of Zoran Djindjic cannot overcome the situation to speak differently today. I'm following up on the other area of agriculture. I can't say anything important has been done in the area of agriculture. Simply, facts, the data says otherwise. They say that in many things in the area of agriculture and backfired. I'm talking about unreal politics, a lack of strategy in this country's agriculture. Mr. Minister who has now entered, and I'm glad he's come in, he's never attended a session of the Agriculture Committee. It was scheduled to be present on Friday 14th, and the session was postponed for understandable reasons. Is this a normal situation and whether it encourages different thinking, alternatives, if the minister does not want to deign Parliament and the Committee on Agriculture and does not want to appear. If a report is submitted to that Committee on Agriculture, which clearly indicates that it is extremely superficial, it only taxively lists some financial expenditures, but also based on these indicators, we see that about two billion dinars of money provided for in the agricultural budget were not spent in 2002. If we compare the marketing actions to how new vineyards and plums will be raised, and we see that this programme is realised by 5%, if we see that huge resources are insufficient. When the budget was adopted, we asked for more money to be invested in the water supply system, so 140 million dinars were separated. If we see that 9 million were set aside at the end of the year, whether the minister was doing well or not, and whether it met the goals that the ministry said it would meet in early 2002. I don't think so, I don't think it's done. I have to say, as I claimed seven days ago, and two months ago, and six months after this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27041	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, proposal V.D. The president of the Republic of Serbia, Natasha Micic, for the election of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, vice-presidents and ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, with consultations with the majority in this parliament, has a significant shortage, and that is not known which is the majority in this parliament. Why don't we know? Because in Serbia today it is clear to all of us that the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia was expressed in the December 2000 elections and that we do not have those MPs in parliament today and that relationship between the forces that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were then identified. Why are MPs who have resigned and whose resignations have been adopted working and acting in this House today? Why in this House do some alleged phantom parliamentary groups, which have only one goal, which is the survival of this government at all costs. You say these groups were formed for political stability. There is no political stability where the electoral will of citizens is not respected, in a country where parliament as the largest legislative body loses its function, loses its legitimacy and becomes only an extended hand of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We have heard the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for the composition of a new government, normally with hands in their pockets; it is just a list of good wishes, praises for some alleged improvement, better life, better and greater social standard. It is cynical to talk about this, about an alleged improvement, about a better life in the Republic of Serbia, when we know that there are over a million unemployed, when two million lives below every living minimum and when the fate of workers and citizens of the Republic of Serbia is getting harder every day. Emergency measures have been introduced that will take a long time, and why? Why don't emergency measures be lifted with the election of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, why should the government work in emergency conditions? All the shortcomings of the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia, to which SRS MPs have pointed out through the mistrust of certain ministries, through the mistrust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should today be transferred to continue the newly-old government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian radicals cannot vote for such a proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia, where the interior minister will continue to be Dusan Mihajlovic, he would have to resign, often promised to Serbian citizens. We can't vote for Minister of Education Gaš Knezevic, who says: you kids go to school with seven years of life, there's no danger for you, and I'll be in a blinded car with a police patrol at my workplace. Is it the goal of protecting the minister, not our future and our children? We can't vote for the justice minister for whom the judges of the Supreme, District and Municipal Courts and others say he doesn't know his job and is instituting chaos. Serbian radicals cannot vote for a minister of agriculture who does nothing to make warlords better, to make life easier for peasants. Not to list other ministers who have not even earned a transitional grade for their work so far, especially to be ministers in this new government of the Republic of Serbia. To vote for the government where Nebojsa Covic is a disaster for Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. The constant policy of concessions conducted by various bodies and centres in Kosovo and Metohija, led by Neboja Covic, towards the international community, leads to more and more difficult situations for the Serbs, according to Cypriot separatists and terrorists. Where are the funds for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? Not a single Serb in Kosovo and Metohija is either, nor will the government of the Republic of Serbia help while Nebojsa Covic is headed, except for a small number of obedients who are unusually rich through various malversions. Finally, Serbian radicals will vote against this proposal for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27043	The People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word, followed by Parliament MP Milutin Soldovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27044	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Zivkovicu, ladies and gentlemen of the candidates for Mr. Zivkovic's cabinet, respecting emotion for reasons that are understandable and present with members of the Democratic Party, I will not talk about the general weak seats of the government, but I will focus only on two issues today. One thing is, the conditions in which the government is elected today, the state of emergency with all the real political and other consequences it has and can have in common democratic and political life in Serbia and in this respect allow me to say a few sentences. Under emergency conditions, certain authorities may intercept telephone and electronic communications without court authority, do not guarantee the inviolability of apartment and letter, citizens do not have the right to elementary judicial and legal protection to the extent prescribed by our laws and to the extent guaranteed by all what we today call democratic fluids everywhere in the world. If the situation lasts long, then it must be noted that democracy as such is suspended in one country on the deadline. That is why we ask, as today has been said, that the state of emergency should be replaced as soon as possible by normal functioning of institutions in Serbia. If, for reasons I understand, it is not possible to do so immediately and today, then this condition should be applied in a certain soft form every day that comes, and in its duration clearly works the way it should function. The next question I want to talk about is parliamentary control, the civilian control of the security authorities, which should be carried out by the Committee on the Security of this assembly. It should not be left out at all in emergency conditions and therefore I ask Mr. Dragan Sutanovac to schedule a session of the Committee, in accordance with his powers, and to the extent possible, members of what is happening today in the country, because it is necessary. There have been several amendments that we have proposed earlier in the manner of parliamentary control and security services. It would be better if it did, because we would have a legal tool in our hands today, and today it would be different. What I particularly want to point out is the phenomenon of the very censorship of the media in Serbia today. This is to the extent that it starts to worry and I ask all those who can help make the media do their job in a relatively normal manner, because unless it happens, political life in Serbia practically has no chance of being realistically commented, nor is it possible to make a real criticism of social reality in Serbia today. The Socialist Party of Serbia, for reasons cited by Dr Zarko Obradovic, speaking to you today, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, cannot support the formation of today's government. The colleagues who spoke in the name of our party before me gave an argument that is understandable, and I will add another argument - the concept of a liberal economy in Serbia has ensured that Serbia becomes only one large and a market without restrictions, where everyone can offer anything that can't be sold anywhere else in the world and only that data, as well as the one indicated by the conuktur barometer these months in Serbia, is sufficient to imagine ourselves seriously. Mr. Milosavljevic used to do this, I followed some of his early works in the area, as well as statements. Three important institutes in this country have been pointing to a paradoxical economic situation for a year. It is one of the serious reasons why such a concept cannot be supported. Because of this, once again, I ask that everything that is necessary be done to overcome the existence of an emergency, because only then, regardless of the real problem we have, we can begin to look like the state, that parliamentary political life in Serbia takes place normally and without any sanctions, that the freedom of the press, choirs and agreements, as one of the basic objectives of the union and social democratic struggles in the last 100 years in Serbia, return here and that we can function normally, because here we represent citizens. I also ask for the business tolerance that comes from the chairman of this House. Whenever you deny an MP the right to speak or attend congregation meetings, you deny the right of citizens who voted for them to be represented in this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27045	The word has been given by the People's MP Milutin Svedovic, followed by Parliament MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Chosen One, Honored Ministers, as one of the priorities of the new - the old government, Mr. Zivkovic, has cited a continuation of privatisation. However, the DSS warned that when new amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act were adopted, the government gave up some of the declared objectives, and in the first instance gave up the principle of solidarity and transparency. In fact, social programmes are announced as one of the government's strategic priorities, and by adopting these amendments and supplementing the Company Act, they do not participate in the signing of sales contracts, so that they cannot affect their content in this domain either. This solution is at least cynical, because the Democratic Party has applied for the Socialist International. Then, hypercentralisation is carried out and a declaration of transparency is eliminated by turning a privatization entity into a privatisation facility; the Privatisation Agency has previously promoted, initiated, implemented and controlled the privatisation process, and is now selling capital, i.e. property. Finally, the privatisation deadline has been extended. This solution does not answer the question of what about companies that are not privatized. You have noted that the new - old government will soon pass them: bankruptcy law, registration law, company law, fund law, but thus, by failing to pass a set of laws in this area, investment funds law, businesses, bankruptcy, liquidation, lising, insurance, supply, etc., the Serbian Government has destabilised foreign and domestic investors, opened up a possible malversion and corruption approach, and, above all, I have made the privatisation process ineffective. This is what the DSS warned about more than a year and a half ago, and the OECD found in its economic report in late 2002. Thus, this government has stepped down that first Privatisation Act, and I must say that we in the DSS voted for it, because in fact it has deviated from its two, I repeat, fundamental principles: social concerns and transparency. In the end, today we wanted to put one fundamental and one system law into the agenda. The bill on decentralisation has not been passed. That's one reason why we can't vote for an old, new government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27047	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and after him, the MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27048	The government's election is on the agenda and there is something to be said about the proposed candidate for Prime Minister and the candidates he has proposed to be members of the government. I'm going to try to talk about what's been presented here as a program of this government, which is, like, continuity. It's a good political commitment. It is clear to all that the government will continue in the same way as the previous government from January 25th 2001 until a few days ago. I'm not going into any concrete things, because I don't have enough time. The strategic goals are divided into seven groups. As targets are certainly commendable and it should be the subject of interest not only of this government, but of all governments. I'm expressing my suspicion that some success can be achieved here. If the press clipping of any newspaper is made, so let it be a period for the past two years, comparisons with statements, for God's sakes look at the pictures, it's hard for this government to break up with organized crime. If the book Dragan Bujosevic is read, too, the role of the organised crime will be seen on October 5th. So I doubt these results, as I doubt the quality of the future state union. Economic reforms do not need to be talked or wasted. As far as legislation is concerned, you see for yourself, at each second - third session of the National Assembly, almost the same member as at the previous session of the National Assembly. As far as the institutions are concerned, they don't work well. There are no experts here, there are only experts without a job internship and coffee cooks whose only merit was that, so they became directors of the Public Revenue Administration. I'd really like to tell you something at the end; there's time, don't worry. Try to understand today's session as, about, another moment when you need to think about how to free yourself from hate and God and fear. I'm telling you this on purpose. Who installs hate does bad, for one simple reason why hate narrows sight, does not allow it to be heard. The voting accounting system gives one reality, and that's not real, be sure. Take a walk in Serbia, you'll see the painful and difficult divisions. Look, there's a lot of people who don't have the means to live. They are irritated when sad vice presidents say everything is good in this Serbia, especially when the media insists on installing something abnormal that is normal, something that is kinky that is acceptable. Avoid it, as do these measures during emergency. The longer the emergency takes, the harder it will be to get out of the emergency situation; much harder. Trust the citizens of Serbia. They expected DOS to be some elbow, something that would bridge the gap between that Europe and this Serbia. No one expected an indigo. Unfortunately, this power of ours has become a common indigo, because what someone wrote is being transmitted here, installed here, and obviously it can't be so strong, brutal, because this people love freedom, owns dignity, wants to be their own, wants to develop democracy. You know, it works very cynically when someone says they're appealing to political stability and tolerance, and it turns out that democracy is just what someone says. In this country, what the Americans have imagined, there is no such democratic authority that needs to be supported, that ruins democratic standards. It doesn't exist because all democratic standards here have been hit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27049	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, followed by Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27050	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, Mr Zivkovic, I will not enter personal issues, but I would like to refer to one question from the domain of work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in the past period, and I believe that it will deserve attention in the future, in the future composition of the government. This is a question that we should all be unique about, out of state and national interest, because you mentioned the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. I think the late Prime Minister Djindjic saw that individual representatives of the international community make a prank on Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, making moves that lead to independence and deceive Serbia. I believe that is why he initiated a decisive move, accelerated, to address Kosovo and Metohija issues, i.e.. all the burning issues related to the southern Serbian province, and finally the status of our province. When I say this, first of all, I'm thinking about some moves that came later. In fact, Mr Steiner accepted dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, but also proposed certain issues that would be on the agenda in the dialogue. The Steiner proposal is highly cynical because it provides only questions that answer them, i.e. Separatistly defined in Kosovo, not responding to the truth, i.e. the national and state interests of Serbia and all citizens living in those areas. It does not cover the issue of the return of exiled people, the security of Serbs and Montenegrins and other non-Albanians, the protection of their property, their return, their seized property and so on, and many other issues. I think you, as a man who will lead the government, as well as the entire government, should perform more decisively in these talks and simply follow the initiative and determination of the late Prime Minister Djindjic. I would add -- a little astounded by Mr. Federal Minister Ljajic's statement following a session of the Committee on the Security of this Parliament held in Bujanovac and the presence of members of this committee in the municipality in southern Serbia, when he said the Serbian Parliament's Security Committee demonstrated force with its session and residence in Bujanovac. Lord, can't the board of the highest home in this country hold a session in the territory of their country and in the city, in a place where security is threatened. I was also amazed -- it is claimed to be KFOR, i.e. The international force in Kosovo and Metohija has reduced the area between the administrative border, but I am surprised that KFOR did not allow a helicopter with MPs to land in Vranje, but had to land in Surdulic and transfer people's cars to Vranja or Bujanovac. I think that these are absurdities and that these contacts need to be more determined to act and defend the interests of our country, state and national, because it gives us the right to do so Resolution 1244. The big mistake was the government, and SRJ leadership, when, probably following suggestions from some representatives of the international community, they accepted an initiative to invite Serbs and non-Albanians to the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, despite the declaration and resolution of this, as well as the federal home, on the non-recognition of the Hans Hekerup constitutional framework. It has been shown that this assembly has had more understanding and hearing, and we have brought resolution and declaration unanimously into this house and we have assessed that this constitutional framework is only damage to our country and to our people, to all the well-intentioned people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, however, people were invited, manipulated, to the polls, and MPs are now experiencing what they are experiencing in the Kosovo parliament. Even now, various resolutions on independence are being declared and are being prepared in the Kosovo parliament by the Cypriot separatist parties, and I can also say terrorist ones, because they come from the UNC, and I think that on this plan with representatives of the international community, our government should in the future be more determined and energetic to work and contact.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27051	The word has a folk MP Srdjan Petrovic, followed by Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27052	Respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, this election-election of the old government falls between two important jobs that the Finance Ministry had ahead of it, which is the 2003 budget, which we adopted last year and changes in the budget as a result of the joint state of Serbia-Montenegro, namely the new federal, federal level of government. Let me remind you, the DSS voted against the 2003 budget. We were, like, the biggest regrets back then and said that we think that the planned growth of a 5% gross social product is unreal, that it's high. At that time, we also said that it is trying to share public expenditure in the budget to reduce artificially, that it is not realistic, all in order to satisfy budget users and purchases, among other things, and social peace. In this text that we have received from the Prime Minister, it is recognised. Namely, it says here "is already visible -- so now, it's March month, only three months after the 2003 budget adoption -- that the planned growth of the GDP of 5% will be about 3.5%, while the planned inflation of 9% will be slightly higher". In addition to the 2003 budget, we also received a memorandum on the 2003, 2004 and 2005 budget, i.e. the macroeconomic indicators plan for the three years. Here, after three months of this year, we don't make that plan work. Let me remind you again, the DSS saw it then. We weren't too far-sighted, that's what other experts predicted. What we have now -- the situation that if the planned budget remains at this level, the participation of public expenditure will cross that imagined 50% psychological limit, which is certainly not good. There remains a chance for the government and the finance minister, the current and future, if elected, to fix it during budget rebalances. Surely this text we got wasn't exactly written in the best way. There's some stuff about economics, finance. Among other things, after what I said, it appears that the planned indicators will not be achieved in 2003, but it is still said that there will be improvements in standards, which is certainly not true. We citizens have to point that out. There will certainly be no increase in standards in 2003, and there will have to be budget cuts. It's about the consumer basket. It's about her all the time. Normally, when you have reduced employment, the salary is actually higher, but the question is how much this affects the general standard. The main things are related to the increase in gross social product. Also, the DSS pointed to both a major deficit and a problematic deficit financing. We have also proposed a reduction in that foreign budget. The text speaks of some 800 billion euros in donations, which do not show the structure, how these donations will be spent. That 800m euros is about 50 billion dinars, which means over and around 20% of the budget. The issue remains of consumption and what part of the 800m euros will go to the budget grant section. That's what's very problematic, because we're already in charge enough and it can happen that, if we continue this way, the share of foreign debt in the gross social product is insufferably large, somewhere over two or three years, in 2005 and beyond. These are the things the DSS, through the government in the shadows, pointed to. Generally, tax reform may be the only area in our reforms that goes at some imagined pace, but when you take all these things I've talked about, it's not enough. Tax reform, related to the April 2001 tax laws packages, and those from the end last, 2002, is supported by our party. What we are about to do at the end of the year will also be supported, but it will all be worthless unless other things, related to growth in the economy, business activities, increase in investment, increase in employment, the government does not realize. For these reasons, the DSS cannot accept such a programme, especially it cannot accept the citizens' promises that living standards will continue to grow, when in the last two months we see that all indicators say that our trends are very bad, even worrying. This situation created by killing the prime minister certainly does not work out for us, nor does the situation in the world related to the events surrounding the Iraq crisis, so we think that the government must be realistic and tell citizens the right state of affairs and act accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27053	The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27054	Dear People's MPs, despite the fact that during today's session television is not directly transmitted, the eyes of the Serbian public are today the most legislative body. This is the first working session since the political assassination of the Serbian prime minister, and this assassination, as you could all feel, has caused deep concern in the people. The people saw it as a threat to their peace, a threat to attempts to reform our society and the state, so they expected to hear today from their representatives what kind of relationship they have to the situation, whether they were able to say something comforting, whether the people dying a little people, could they promise that the worst hunches suggested by the political assassination would not be realized. I really don't understand why this session doesn't broadcast television. I don't believe that by shutting down TV cameras, it was intended to show mistrust to the people. Finally, it's absurd not to believe in the people. Every government and every congregation must believe in the people. Those who have the right to express certain doubts are citizens themselves. So, in a sense, excluding TV cameras, you, gentlemen, have, I'm afraid, shown mistrust with the MPs. As far as we deserve your mistrust, that's a very special question. Would we today be so irresponsible that our discussions make it difficult for us to remove the causes of the emergency? We wouldn't be so irresponsible. Every MP in this congregation is deeply concerned with the fact that the state of emergency is being overcome as soon as possible, that is, that the causes that have led to an emergency are removed. It's about trust and mistrust. If the prime minister for the formation of the new government, i.e. to extend his mandate to the old government, in a certain degree shows no confidence in the MPs, it is not possible to expect MPs to show full confidence in his efforts. You gentlemen have heard what the DSS MPs think about the work of the government. We heard today, we heard a year and a half ago, you respect our arguments, some you don't accept. We will continue to do our own analysis of the work of individual resistors, and we will also do our own programs on how certain systems in the country should be reformed, and today is not a chance for us to face these two concepts. However, this is an opportunity, Mr. Zivkovic, to remind you that in 2000, your continuity programme was entrusted to citizens in the elections, it was also given the confidence of 176 MPs here; but the last two years have led to a new state, two years have created a certain practice, two years have clearly shown whether the reforms we have been identified for have been defined, defined by citizens, implemented or not, and until these reforms have been achieved. Serbian citizens of reforms that are painful see partly as a kind of enlightened absoluteism as a kind of violent push for the better. It's, I think, one natural feeling. The people would bear this feeling very easily if they were sure that the political elite wanted to reform itself first. In two years we haven't sent a simple message to the people - before we arrange any system in society and in the state, we'll sort ourselves out. We will edit ourselves by respecting parliament, which we will pass a law on the financing of political parties, so that political parties will not be partly financed by some of the donations that are unclear, will not be linked to the economy, will no longer be directed by political parties only to take over the power and mechanisms of the party state that have been developed for 60 years. We live in a Partocratic state, in a country where political oligarchy could govern all systems. Reforms should be in this direction to limit policy interference in the economy, influence authorities in the judicial system, influence political elites in culture and education, and allow these systems to reproduce their own hierarchy of values and reproduce from themselves a steering layer that will be able to improve these systems. We haven't released anyone and nothing from the tutorship. All systems are still under political tutelage, and everything continues as it has been, with it once being a single-party system. As one of my friends says, we lived in a one-party system for a long time, and then we multiplied it. That's the problem. Your government will face it, each of the next governments will face this fundamental problem, that the first political reform must be carried out in the country. Political reform must be carried out and it must already be understood that the political majority is not the same as the state and people. If we believed in the MPs and believed in this Assembly, today would be a direct transfer, so we would tell citizens that the situation in which Serbia was found is equally affecting everything, and that everyone is equally responsible for seeking a way out of this situation. Instead, the ruling majority thinks she's the only one responsible. It promises the people that it will do everything it needs to do, it takes all the leverage of the authorities and thus isolates the other parties. In this way, we are once again entering something that is much like a virtual one-party system -- because we have very many parties -- but we remain in a part-departmental system, in which the state and the institutions do not have a solid basis, have no autonomous power and the power to function on their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27055	The People's Messenger Radomir Naumov has the word, and after him is Free Adzic. The total time available for the DSS parliamentary group is 13 minutes. Vukosav Tomasevic, Dragomir Vojinovic, Svetlana Stojanovic and Djordje Mamula, have been reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27056	Mrs. Comic, Mr. candidate for Prime Minister, gentlemen and candidates for the future government, gentlemen of MPs, extraordinary circumstances, unfortunately caused by an unfathomable secret from God, have caused this session to take place in an extraordinary manner. So after more than two years, we have an opportunity to say a word in the Assembly about the government's work. Two years ago, I looked forward to, at the exposé of the late prime minister, looking unsuccessfully at the government of Serbia's website, and today I listened to whether the candidate for prime minister of the new government would say something about a problem in an area that is extremely important, without which one cannot and which must be a priority, whether or not it was an emergency situation, about reforms in the energy sector. We're witnessing today that there are turbulence changes in energy all over the world. New adjustments are taking place, reforms caused by the introduction of competition, or demonopolisation and the opening of the energy market, or deregulation, to which all countries in the world are adapting, and our country should be adapted as well. These are extremely complex processes, long-term, require great intelligence and a lot of money. The task means every, hopefully, responsible government was and should be to bring issues of energy sector reform to the studio, methodically and planically. Many countries in the environment have made a plan for such a reform. With the plan, they went before parliament that adopted the programme and the sector's reform plan, and the plan became the state document at the highest level. Such a document is then implemented independently of who is in power and I believe that this should be one of the important moments and in the work of the future government. Otherwise, the government's legislative initiative, such as the proposed law on mining, geological research, especially on energy, must be public rather than in tight circles. The co-operation of professional associations, experts of various profiles must be accepted. I don't think the government has had enough of that success so far. On the contrary, she often interfered with the management of energy companies, influenced the selection of personnel, often unsuccessfully. For example, NIS doesn't have a legal director today either. She also interfered with the tariff system, organized cowboy action incursions in the Colubary, etc. Just a restructuring of energy companies, I think, a tap in the city. And if this is a process that requires the fruit of organisational, legal, normative and other moments, I think the opportunity to carry out serious rationalization and decriminalisation in this sector has been missed. The effects of electrical affairs from surrounding countries threaten to spill over with us. These are all moments to be taken into account in the government's future work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27057	The People's Messenger is Free Adzic, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Vukosav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27058	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow MPs, the current moment in which Serbia finds itself undoubtedly requires a high degree of responsibility for each MP. The Serbian government's choice is the most important issue for each parliament, including for this Serbian Parliament's call and we have a agenda point where all MPs must accept responsibility for their people for their own decision. I belong to those MPs who think that the government's choice in this way and in this composition would be wrong, with maximum respect for all difficult circumstances and the situation in the Republic of Serbia. The acting President of the Republic and the President of this Parliament, Mrs Natasa Micic, explains the proposal for a candidate for Prime Minister, states: "As I have heard the opinion of the majority representatives in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit a proposal." The explanation shows that the mandated proponent, which in this case is a difficult environment, the speaker of parliament, has not heard representatives of all MPs. So he took the right to share this parliament. Worse still, he takes the right to determine who belongs to the congregation’s majority in advance, not listening to anyone who should be involved in making a decision. We, as MPs who need to decide on behalf of the citizens, would have to hear who supports it in advance and why it supports it. This procedure does not contribute to the necessary unity in Serbia by acting as president of the Republic, thus neither doing more effective work on the assigned tasks of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Proposing a state of emergency in institutional terms, the most responsible official in the country, v.d. The president of the Republic called on all political forces to show a greater degree of unity in order to overcome the difficult situation in Serbia. I would agree that at this point we need unity, but not in words, but in action. The candidate's proposal did not show a push for single actions in the proposal process. Taking part in the work of the Committee on Labour, Social and Combat Affairs over the past two years as a MP, I am not satisfied with the work of the government in this area. Reform in the field of work and working relations was carried out only on paper. The reform in the area of social security and social protection has not even begun, and the announcements of these reforms mean more depriving citizens' rights, rather than resuscitating in this area. The reform in the field of employment, the rights of the unemployed and insurance in the event of unemployment is placed on a completely wrong basis by the draft new laws. This is not the moment and point of the agenda for the full analysis of the work of the ministries and past government. It cannot be crossed over some of the principled things that determine further direction of work and the functioning of the new government, in which personal solutions will remain mostly the same, and above all at the head of the ministries. In the end, fellow MPs, I believe that the choice of a new government is not only a matter of moment and personal choice, but depends primarily on a concept approach. I think it was much better to choose the transitional concentration government that the DSS normally advocates. In this way and with these people, this proposed government will not be able to solve many problems in Serbia. These are reasons why, as a MP, they cannot support the proposal of the acting President of the Republic for the election of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27059	The People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević has the word, and after him the People's Messenger Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27060	Dear ladies and gentlemen, as a journalist, I wanted to talk about what the current Government of the Republic of Serbia should have done, and what it did in the media sphere and something possible about what this new-old government should have done on this plan. Since there is no time for a more serious debate on this subject, I will give one conclusion and ask a few questions. So, Mr. Zivkovic, the prime minister of the new government of the Republic of Serbia, did not mention public information in his exposé this morning, nor did he mention the media. I tend to interpret it this way, please correct me if I am wrong: first thing, there is nothing good to say about the impact of the Republic government in the media area for these past two years; on the other hand, from the fact that the media has not even been mentioned, let alone put into priorities, I draw the conclusion that the future Government of the Republic of Serbia will not change anything in this area. This is not good because, gentlemen, the situation in the media and the media sphere in Serbia is more than catastrophic. I don't think we're going to make a mistake, no matter how hard it is to say it, but it's not hard to prove that the situation in the media sphere under this government is no better than the previous regime we fought against. Instead of having joined the government's root legislative changes and the introduction of legislation in the media area, instead of implementing reforms and introducing order into the media sphere, the tragic death of Serbia's prime minister is now being used to introduce censorship in Serbia. So I want to ask and hope that I get an answer, does anyone think that all these strange nicknames will be able to avoid the hand of justice if the TV broadcast of debates in this and in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is lifted? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27061	The word is by MP Svetlana Stojanovic, with one minute of time at the disposal of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27062	Dear fellow Members of the People, Honored Minister Lecic, if he is here, I only have a minute and that is enough to mention cultural policy for once. From all that has been made available to the MPs so far, the cultural policy of the Ministry of Culture could not be interpreted. As you also know, in over two years of our work we have not passed a single law in the field of culture. One law on the protection of cultural goods was on the agenda in June, and then the Assembly stopped working for three or four months, because a small group of people concluded that 45 DSS MPs were invalid and that this is why the Assembly should suspend the work. The Ministry of Culture submitted reports to the Committee on Culture, and there were three. The first was very short and unworthy of a local community. The second one was somewhat longer, it also consisted of gathering activities of cultural institutions. The third and most extensive, which has not yet been discussed by the Committee, has only a beginning and contains very good principles. However, there is not a single number. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not know what funds the Ministry of Culture has reached, for which they are invested, for which the Ministry of Culture plans to invest, why it has or could not achieve some of its projects, which projects it intends to implement. The National MP of this assembly can only conclude that this government does not have its own cultural policy, and especially not reform policy. What we expect is a real law that will also introduce culture into the sphere of reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27063	Since there are no more word lists, I ask whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used this right, want to apply for the word. There's no sign-ins. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27064	Madam Chairman, I just have to go back to the beginning of this session, while Mrs. Comić led the session, after I had the opportunity to get acquainted with the stenographic notes from the beginning of the session, I ask you for some patience, to clarify one situation. Mrs. Komic informed the National Assembly that at the 63rd session, held on 14 February, the Administrative Committee, discussed the video and written statements by the MPs Slobodan Tomovic, Stanko Kovacevic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Muje Mukovic, Milan Stanimirović, Boris Novakovic, Dragos Babic, in order to determine the participants of the conduct and violations of the Rules of Procedure by the participants who took place at the National Assembly session. On this occasion, and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is a measure of warning to the MP Branislav Pomoriško and a measure of distance from the session of the National MP Tomislav Nikolic and it is up to the Administrative Committee to take care of the application of these measures. I'm confidently aware that the attempt to reconstruct this event through video footage at that session was completely unsuccessful and that the video camera didn't record anything. I also know with confidence that MP Slobodan Tomovic and Zoran R. Angelkovic have not delivered any written statements to the Administrative Committee. But without that, I warn of Article 101, it is discreetly the President of the Assembly's right to impose any of these measures on the Rules of Procedure, while the Administrative Board only takes care of the implementation of these measures in terms of determining the amount of fines, and it ranges between 3,000 and 32,000 dinars, depending on the measure. When informing the National Assembly of the measures spoken, it is unclear from what Mrs Komic said and who said these measures, whether the chairman today, post-festum, after a month and a half or an Administrative Committee, who had no right to do so within the meaning of Article 101. It is also not stated on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure this measure is made, which is very important, since the distance measure from the session can be expressed for 20 or 90 days, depending on which member of the Rules of Procedure you are calling. That is why I am asking the Administrative Board to determine according to this advertising of my Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27065	The proposal and the Administrative Committee will decide on the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, the distance measure for MP Tomislav Nikolic was given on the basis of Article 104 of position 2 today in the morning part of the session, said the chairman, Mrs Comic, who has all the powers as well as the president of the Assembly. Since none of the representatives, or president of the parliamentary groups, have applied for a word, excuse me, there are applications, please. The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27066	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is the responsibility of the little word mentioned today for this speaker, which is the word that we used to say when we fought for democratic institutions and put it as one of three key things for building democratic institutions, and these three things are: selectivity, accountability, exchangeability. There is no responsibility in Serbia. The responsibility for what is happening in Serbia is also gone; I didn't hear anyone say - I'm responsible for this or that. Without one of those kinds of responsibilities, it is hardly possible to discuss a new government, a new government with old people, who have neither taken responsibility for what they have done, nor are they ready to report their work to this assembly. It's a basic thing if we start from something that is new, if someone says it's new, although we're all talking about something that's old. What have the ministers done in the last two years? From the presentation of the DSS MPs, you could hear that there were those who did more, that there were those who did less, that there were those who worked exclusively to the harm of the state, and that's what the people felt. The democratic party of Serbia insisted on responsibilities. Who's responsible for us in Serbia today having an illegal parliament, which we don't have a president of the state, what happened, who's responsible for having an unstable state, who's responsible for having a mafia, organised crime and corruption? What is the biggest dam in the fight against organised crime and corruption? A stable state, a legal, democratic, stable state. We have no legal, no legitimate, no strong, no stable state. Could that executive power that led to us having neither legal nor democratic nor stable state to be the one to fight organised crime and corruption? Whether the fight against organised crime and corruption will be selective and whether emergency measures will also be used, or -- according to a report made by the Ministry of Interior and the localisation of the criminal groups -- will be used for all mafia and criminal groups. Whether it will be used by another brotherhood in our earthly congregation, or it will be kept in only one brotherhood of the country’s municipalities. Will it be used for other groups of Serbia? Whether some in one brotherhood, or others, will only be protected witnesses, or will they be found on the defendant's benches. These are all the questions that citizens are asking and these questions will also be asked by the citizens to the new Prime Minister and they have been asked so far by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Police and all the other ministers; these are all the questions that are being asked to all of us here in this assembly. These are questions that, deeply convinced, the state of emergency cannot provide an answer. The state of emergency is not a measure that can contribute significantly to the fight against organised crime, because the state of emergency will not eliminate the causes, it will deal with the consequences of organised crime. It will not eliminate the causes of organised crime, which is an unstable state, the link and linkage of organised crime with state structures; information says that certain organised crime groups had their own people in the judiciary, in the MUP, that they had all the information and that they could not be put to an end. These are all official sources of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Are these extraordinary measures a means or a goal? Can they lead to a crucial fight and the eradication of organised crime from Serbia? I can't. The causes are much deeper, the causes are unstable. Those who have made this country unstable cannot make it stable. That's why the DSS had a series of proposals; unfortunately for the state, we haven't come to such a solution. The DSS, of course, will not support the government's proposal as the candidate for Prime Minister, Mr. Zivkovic, said. The positions she has had so far, which she has brought up today, as the government is old - new, the DSS will be further and valid for all ministers. We expect that finally the new president, if he wants both well to himself and the government, will establish the principle of responsibility in his government, so that it can finally be said who is responsible for the fact that the president of a government has been killed. Are only those who were on the other side responsible, or are those who were on this side, who may not have taken all the measures to prevent it? So there's a lot of things to talk about, a lot of questions. Answers should be given, but the state of emergency is not a means - the means are a legal state, institutions, a stable state, legitimate institutions. It's something that we as DSS are going to fight for and what we're going to insist on.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27067	Since there are no more entries for the word, I'm closing the search. According to Article 187(1), we will approach the vote immediately. The word is Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, a candidate for Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27068	It's customary to answer some questions. I thank you for the discussion that has probably been most peaceful in the last few years. It wasn't what it was supposed to be in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, but it was far from those dark and vulgar discussions we had the opportunity to hear here. I thank you for that, and I believe it was done from a pitet to the late President Djindjic. Normally, there were also parliamentary exceptions that you would recognize yourself in those who spoke. It's not something I'm supposed to be concerned with, especially right now. I'd like to answer some questions. Several MPs have asked the question of parliament's legitimacy. I don't know why the issue is raised to the government when the agenda is the choice of the new government. You are sitting in this House and you are giving your presence the legitimacy of this House. So that's not a question for the government. Otherwise, several MPs made some demands to the government. You can make a request to the government if you vote for that government, and if you don't vote for the government, then you can make suggestions and look for reports. You can only have government requirements if you vote, if you accept this government as your own. Hundreds of regulations with law enforcement have been mentioned, where the Serbian government has taken over jobs that should otherwise be defined by law. There is one single regulation that is questionable in terms of constitutionality and the transport of oil. You've been repeatedly told what the effects of this regulation are and it's repeatedly repeated, and you see yourself on the streets, on the roads, on the gas stations, whether something is happening in that area, which is different from the time things happened in that area. Several MPs have said there is a privatisation in depravity. Well, buy if you think it's cheap, if you think it's free, buy it. Anyone can buy it, even you who think it's free. No one bought anything, and it was closed and it wasn't a public auction or a public tender. If you think it's cheap to sell, take it and buy it. Co-operation with The Hague is a grudge to the current government. This government will lead the same policy towards The Hague. I'm surprised that's what people from the party whose president went there alone say. No one made him go to The Hague. He offered himself a year and a half, and then when he got the call about his expense, he left. As for other parties and their former and current members, the international community's objection to us is that very few people have been delivered to The Hague. That's right. The largest number has gone alone, and among them are very high party officials whose MPs today say we are co-operative with The Hague. No one from the Democratic Party or any other DOS party has been invited, nor has he gone to The Hague alone. The question was whether I was convicted. I'm not convicted. It's highly unlikely that, for speeding or something, but I'm not convicted of any crime, nor is any investigation being conducted. It was in the press questions about my former firm's business. If that's interesting to the public or to you, you can get the verdicts that were made a long time ago, when I was deep in opposition, so you can check that out, if that interests anyone. Was I on Schiller's street? I wasn't on that street. What about the other criminal groups? You have received clear information that against all 155 criminal groups an action has been taken and that nearly 800 members of these organised groups have been arrested, so that no organised group is protected, except for some political ones, for now. Someone was reading, I think the shadow minister, Jocic, some of my statements where someone claimed there were 155 criminal groups, and I said it was between 100 and 200; so 155 is between 100 and 200, definitely. We've been saying there's no mob, we've always said that, and I repeat that there's no mafia in Serbia today. There are 155 organized crime groups or gangs. The difference is that the Mafia is one system that connects them all. We don't have that system. That's why there's no mob in Serbia, which doesn't mean there's no crime, on the contrary. It's not called the mob. As for economic indicators, someone said they were smaller than they were announced at the beginning of the year. That's right. They were not made compared to the first three months or the first two and a half months this year, but rather a quick, not a very precise estimate, made compared to what is happening in the country where the prime minister was killed. And they remove in economic indicators and assess what will happen. You'll have a very quick analysis of what's expected of us this year. As far as the White Church is concerned, I've been given information about, you say, the D.O.S. and the police in the SPS and the S.R.S. To inform you that the Federal Property Directorate of the SRJ, according to the Law on the financing of political parties, which was made at the federal level and under which the property of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia became the property of the federal state, on 4 November 2002, decided that these and those premises, to which it relates, were transferred as immovable property to the municipality of the White Church. On the other hand, for the room used by the SRS, the White Church Executive Board concluded in 1992, when the room was allocated for temporary use with a duration of one year. The White Church Act of 16 January 1995 has taken away the premises of the SRS, or its local committee. This is the implementation of the White Church municipality's decision from 16 January 1995. It seems funny, but that's the way it is. As far as the SPS is concerned, there's been an act since 4 November 2002, I can give it to you after the document. Therefore, it is the execution of what is based on the law. I call upon you that, if you don't think that's true, you're looking for protection, perhaps from the government and the court. In any case, there was no intention of showing repression against the SRS and the SPS in the White Church. If anyone had any idea they were doing this, they certainly wouldn't be working at the White Church. Someone found out that my personal mistrust in the opposition MPs is the reason that there is no TV transmission today, and also said that this gentleman that has no TV transmission certainly won't catch criminals. I couldn't agree more. Why are you accusing me of not having a TV feed? At this point, I am neither an executive nor an MP, but a citizen who has the right to propose to the government. Therefore, there is no example in the world that the prime minister is carrying out terror. There may be where the Emperor, the monarch, the President, the President of the Government, the President of the Parliament, but the prime minister cannot carry out state terror. It doesn't exist. Why there's no TV transmission, I don't know, it's a question for parliament. As for the report by the Ministry of Culture, we heard the position, I don't know what reports have been made, and it is certain that the reports must contain all the facts that the report should have, and the money here mentioned as a lack in that report, and the ministries will give half-yearly reports on their work, so that the report will go to both the government's session and the committee's session in parliament. As far as the law on culture and calling the government is concerned, for many laws that have not been passed, e.g. on information and the like, there is one government that can propose a law to this Parliament and there are 250 MPs who can propose a law to this Parliament. So don't just transfer to the government for something that hasn't been done. You all have the same right as the Serbian Government, to propose a law, and many of you are boasting of the mind and any other capacity, which is much greater than the capacity of this government. Show him. Show that capacity and write down all those laws which, in your opinion, need to introduce order in this country. And the information law and everything you've been talking about here. It has been estimated that there is no point in the reforms being painful. I'm going to try to paraphrase a very wise, successful man, who was unfortunately nearly killed, who said that the reforms were either unsuccessful or painful. There are no successful reforms that are not painful. You don't have any treatment that doesn't have any interference: either it's a rash, or it's pain, or there's something in between, or there's vomiting or there's some kind of pain. So give me an example from the world where reforms have been made without problems for any social, social group I will expose myself, not this government, but the entire parliament, the whole state, to rewrite that recipe and to work on that recipe. There are no such reforms and you know it very well. As it is just as rude for people who were in the position of the chairman of boards or public enterprises yesterday to say that politics did not separate from the public sector and interfere in the public sector. Of course, you can underestimate a lot of things with me and other people, but we haven't lashed out and at least we remember what was going on, and there's been a lot of things going on that we're unfortunately going to have to remember our whole lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27069	I thank Mr. Zivkovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme presented and candidates for Deputy Prime Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 187(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, a proposal for the Prime Minister and members of the Government, shall be decided in general by a secret vote, unless the National Assembly decides to hold the vote publicly. I propose that the National Assembly on a candidate for Prime Minister, candidates for Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia vote publicly, using an electronic voting system. Please make your statement on this proposal. For 127, against 96, did not vote seven, a total of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to make the vote publicly, using an electronic voting system, and that the National Assembly will declare itself in general. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a vote, we've joined the vote. [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27070	I really don't know, Madam Chairman, whether you've made a lapus or a slip, but Article 121 of the 2nd Decidently says that a secret voice is voiced using the electronic system, so we can't vote publicly using the electronic system but secretly, and it's publicly voiced by a call. Therefore, you put on the vote something that is impossible. Either he's a member of 121 or you're going to ask him to vote with a roll call.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27071	I find there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have already called for Article 187(1), which says: "The proposal for president and members of the government is decided in general by a secret vote, unless the National Assembly decides to hold the vote publicly. "The National Assembly has made a decision about it. Because the possibility has been left for the National Assembly to decide differently, and we respect the Rules of Procedure and we have made that decision. I remind you that, according to Article 92(2), paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure, the decision on the election of members of the Government, is considered adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. I am voting on a proposal for the President and Vice-Presidents of the Government and Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. For 128, against 100, three abstentions, of a total of 231 present MPs. I declare that the National Assembly chose the president, vice-presidents and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia by majority. Now we'll approach the oath. I would like the President, Vice-Presidents and Ministers of the Serbian Government to, in accordance with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, approaches to take an oath. (The president reads the text of the oath as members of the government repeat it. ) "I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my work and to perform my duties as a member of the Government with responsibility and security." Thank you. Let me congratulate the President, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on your behalf and on my behalf. I also ask the President, the Vice-Presidents and the Government's ministers to sign and hand over the text of the oath. [[Applause]] I've been setting a break for an hour. I'm scheduled to hold a session of the Justice Committee, after which we'll continue the session. [[After break - 17.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue the session to determine if we have a quorum to work on. I understand we have a quorum to work with. At the beginning of one notification, in accordance with Article 24. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the duties of the president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform will be carried out by MP Bojan Pajtic in the future. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws proposed by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle, is five hours, and that this time is allocated according to the number of MPs the parliamentary group has. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to file a statement with a number of MPs. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT AUTHORITIES (Common principled search with points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda) Does the Proposer's representative, Mr Vladan Batic, Minister of Justice, want a word? (He's not present, since the government's sitting is under way.) ( b) Do the committees in charge, for the judiciary and the legislation, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Then we will wait for a list of registered MPs to be delivered for participation in the debate. After receiving the list of the DSS parliamentary group, I give my word to MP George Mamuli.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27073	The proposed law package on justice comes with a great delay as there has been a suspension in Serbia of the jurisdiction of municipal courts on 1 March of this year, and new courts have not begun work. In time, around New Year's Eve, we have turned our attention to the Ministry of Justice what will happen when March 1st comes and what chaos will arise if something is not done in a timely manner. Do you think someone answered - there was no answer. The initiative was launched on February 18th, and here, today it came on the agenda. Eighteen days in Serbia's courts are a mess. For a long time, procedures are suspended because courts are advertised unsuspectingly. That hasn't happened yet. This attitude of irresponsibility, such lack of account, I think it raises the question of Mr. Justice's responsibility, Batic. If the Ministry Act is looked at, Article 5 says that in the jurisdiction of the justice ministry, judicial organisations and the work of the courts, and in the light of the bill's proposal, it is said that for organisational reasons the courts have not begun to work. Now, if the Justice Department is responsible for organising the work of the courts, and for organisational reasons they didn't start working, who's responsible? The consequences are very serious. Therefore, these amendments relating to the suspension of the application of the law, i.e. the organisation of courts, should be compulsoryly adopted because the public interest is at risk. You should've taken care of it now - what the judges say in the courts. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Justice Minister here to go with the cameras of that television, with which he's been going to the courts, to ask the judges - what they think now, and to ask those judges who come at eight o'clock and at eight and fifteen, what they think about his responsibility, and the consultations with the Supreme Courts, what to do since 1 March; to ask the parties, to ask these people who come to the courts for 18 days, and they don't know what's going to happen. The trials are adjourned for several months. Word is, courts aren't effective. So how can they be effective? They don't change the law. Look only in your places, in your courts, what the presidents of the courts and the competent judges think. The evidence is not brought before the courts, because the judges say we do not know what will happen, when it will be adopted, and how we should behave. That's why I think that fact should encourage Mr Batic to resign, because in the history of Serbia's justice, something like this has not happened. I'm saying this from the angle of the trade. That's no political argument. Judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia spoke of his responsibility, until the morning of the Serbian Supreme Court, Mrs. Karamarkovic, who I now hear has been suspended. I don't know exactly how much that is. Now, look, he's told by the people at the top of the judiciary, so people who don't deal with politics and who aren't any competition, with the best intentions. And instead of coming here today to explain something about his duties and his responsibilities, he's gone. But well, it's not the first time. However, there are good solutions in the package of laws, and I think a good solution is to reorganise courts. I draw your attention that our amendments highlight, when it comes to the Court of Appeal, that it would be very important to establish departments of appeals courts, not to establish four appeals courts, because according to what we talked to the finance minister, four appeals courts need to be provided. For the departments of these funds, they should not be provided and in the existing budget ranges they could respond to this task. I think the proposed package of laws should be accepted, and I suggest you accept the DSS amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27074	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27075	There are four laws on the agenda in the area of justice, amending and supplementing the laws that were passed in 2001. When these laws were passed, there came a well-intentioned criticism that changes are being made in the wrong direction and that our judicial system does not have a source problem in the set organisation, but in the work, efficiency and general application of the rules. It was then announced from this place that the Court of Appeal or the Court of Appeal or the Court of Appeal would not live and, as you can see, the deadline had been broken. The court did not live, and nearly five billion dinars were allocated to the judiciary in 2002, and about 12 billion dinars were planned in the 2003 budget in a large number of positions. According to the 2003 budget provisions, the most responsible for the funds and the establishment of these new courts is the minister of justice. Obviously, he has failed to fulfil the obligations set out in particular in Article 10. Budget law for 2003. Today we can conclude that the problem of our judiciary is not an organization but a bad, wrong human policy, because over the past two years the courts have strengthened, they have received new judges, former interns, former legal interns, former prosecutors' children. The Supreme Court also received a special adviser, a pensioner, and the Constitutional Court, here is a miracle, has not resolved on the proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of an act since 6 March 2001. It's the judiciary today. Ineffectively, it doesn't even help the law on special powers and special authorities to contain organised crime, and we had until ten days ago to hear that the special prosecutor is a member of another party, so he's not like that, so he's not capable. Here's the 13th. Looks like he's become a little bit of an expert on these jobs. Since March 1st, we do not have a second-degree body under this special law, since there is no Court of Appeal, nor much greater. The changes they aim to delay the application of the law we are in fact confirming that these laws have not essentially entered into force. And if by chance someone writes a complaint and points to some irregularities in the work of the court or indicates that a procedure should be initiated to resolve any of the judges or prosecutors who are unwittingly and unscrupulously doing their duty, he has a bitter disappointment, because it stands in drawers, whether this council, whether or not the competent minister, whether or not the President of the Supreme Court, is of no importance, it is important not to be resolved. What has never happened to us, here for the past year, has happened -- that absolute immunity has been denied by a court ruling. The judge obviously committed some kind of crime, but all the authorities are silent. Under such conditions, our judiciary cannot liven up. It can only energize a human being's cleanup, and selectively, according to the 2001 warrant, when it is said how many judges must go out, which cases and within what time should be resolved, and for 15 days we have a situation to postpone the hearings indefinitely because it is in an effort to organise our judiciary that neither is organized nor can function. These amendments, which are proposed, will not happen with our courts, nor with their functioning; there will continue to be controversy and new legal views on the jurisdiction of individual courts. It's also too professional a question to bother the MPs. The courts are now being declared incompetent for all and all things. It is not known whether the court in charge is a general jurisdiction or a trade court. It happens that a lease is being tried in the municipal court, and almost the same parties are being announced by a competent and trade court. It was before, but there were some views of the Supreme Court that were binding on all courts. Under existing laws, the Supreme Court is practically without judicial authority. He used to be in charge of regular remedies. He is still not in charge, and the proposal to amend this law returns jurisdiction for trial and by regular means. As you can see, we're going round and round. One change wasn't good and we're going back to the last one, and we know it's not good. Finally, since 22 May 2001, this assembly has been illegal, as it should be borne in mind that all these laws have been called into question. We are awaiting the Constitutional Court's decision, given that a procedure has been initiated for the assessment of the constitutionality of all these proceedings since 22 May has been practically so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27076	The word has been issued by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27077	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for not being at the beginning of the assembly. I was present at the Justice Committee. For the third time in a year and a few days on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, there is a set of laws in the area of justice. In an area where stability is most important for the third time, heavy waves are being made, pre-tumbled, with reasons, according to all, directed to blame someone other than the Government of the Republic of Serbia for its failure or for the lack of regulation in the area of justice. Unfortunately for the government of the Republic of Serbia, for all in the judiciary and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the situation in the judiciary is extremely bad, and the resolution of the situation in the judiciary has not contributed at all to any of the three debates of a set of judicial laws here in the Assembly. I will remind you that in November 2001, we had a set of judicial laws on the agenda, which was put into the assembly procedure by the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Minister Batic then, allowing me to read a brief quote and not to include it at the time I have to present, stressed that all changes were then agreed on by the joint consultations of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and the representatives of the majority, the government of the Republic of Serbia, so that some combinations, unarranged solutions and putting into the process of something that could not be realised in line with the concept of judicial reform. But only seven months after that, we have a situation where the same minister and the same government appear as proposing amendments and supplementing a set of judicial laws with a series of restrictive provisions that largely deunciate what has been contained in the draft law since November 2001. So Minister Batic then said, "It is necessary to accept the political reality that there are agreements in political coalitions. Such an agreement was reached between the DOS parliamentary group and the DSS parliamentary group on the draft law in the area of justice. On the basis of this agreement, a meeting of the Justice Ministry working groups and the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and all these fundamental things in the draft laws on courts and judges were incorporated into the draft law submitted by the DSS parliamentary group. "Unfortunately, at the fifth extraordinary session of July 15th 2002, as I have already mentioned, there have been major shifts in the positions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice itself, when a set of laws on justice was entered into the text, and in particular the Law on Judges, several provisions that were shocking at the very least. He reacted to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, made a decision and was published on 25 September in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" on a solution to the Law on Judges. It says - a solution is made to suspend the execution of individual acts and actions under Articles 7, 10, 15, 16 and 18. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. The reasons for this decision are extremely rigid and extremely simplified, so that you can understand every layman. Namely, the largest number of complaints were filed by the Open Society Fund, the Anti-War Action Centre, the Human Rights Lawyers' Committee, the Lex League of Experts. All have submitted a joint statement to the Constitutional Court expressing deep concern about the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the set of judicial laws. Most of these complaints were incorporated into amendments submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. Unfortunately, the parliamentary majority and the Ministry of Justice did not accept these intensities, and only seven months later, the ministry signed the amendments, and the parliamentary majority here submitted them as their own. In addition, we have documentation that you can verify in the documents of the Republic Assembly. On the agenda today, for the third time, as I said, for a year and a half, there is a set of laws on amendments and additions to the law on justice, which will once again introduce instability and uncertainty in the work of the holders of judicial functions. Mr. Minister, I really wouldn't argue with you. If you want to take part in some show, so let's talk, me as a lawyer and you as a doctor of law science, I'd love to. I'm trying here to make some constructive proposals in the most constructive way possible, in what sense these bill proposals should be developed. If you can have a little patience, listen. There's no need for us to throw each other in this way. Thus, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia's resolution was put out of force by certain members of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. First of all, Article 1 of the contested law, and it amends Article 11. The law on judges, which reads: "If the court is suspended or the jurisdiction of the court in general is transferred to another court, the judge shall continue his duties in the court of jurisdiction which has taken over." Also, a member of the 10th contested law says: "The judge is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. If the proposed candidate is not elected, the competent committee of the National Assembly (which restores the responsibility of the committee and the legislative authorities for proposing the holders of judicial functions) shall propose to the National Assembly of the Second Candidate." That provision of the law on judges has been suspended since the execution. As you know, today's amendments to this law want to cover the shame the Government of the Republic of Serbia has allowed itself, which is that its proposal for amending and supplementing the laws of the Constitutional Court, the most judicial body in one country, puts out of effect, suspends from further application, because it is not in accordance with the Constitution. If we are to discuss the individual provisions of a set of these laws, their essence today, in addition to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has suspended for the third time, because of its impunity and inability or something else, the beginning of the work of appeals courts as second-degree courts in our judicial system, and for this it missed the legal deadline - 1 March of this year. It is a shame that today, as a country seeking to join the European Union, to be a member of the European family, we are passing laws that are not implemented. In practice, they don't run. They exist on paper, but in practice they don't. Appellate courts were to be established, as far as I know, in October 2002, and that deadline was extended in March 2003, and even within the time limit it was possible to extend it was not done. Now, with a delay of 18 days, the government of the Republic of Serbia is putting on the agenda of the Law Amendment Assembly, with one goal: to cover up the shame that a legal vacuum was created in which people could not identify which court should appeal to the decision of the first-degree body. I would not like to mention the situation arising from the adoption of the provisions on lustration, not to mention the provisions on the election procedure, the duration of office, the ban on trial or the exercise of judicial office to the presidents or holders of administrative functions in the judiciary, which are also challenged by the Constitutional Court's decision. So we have a set of laws in this area, with only one goal, basic, which is to cover up the shame of deconstituting de facto appeals courts. What a legal situation it is, we can easily see everyone. People who had to appeal to second-degree authorities for first-degree judgments, whether they were municipal or county, for 18 days don't know who those complaints were giving instructions to. On the threshold of the 21st century, no state, so she and Jamaica, Budjumbura or Burundi, can afford such a luxury to take any area...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27078	People's MP, do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27079	Just to finish my thought, I'll leave for the next 10 minutes. In addition, yesterday we received this, without the possibility of submitting amendments to the amendments to the Judges' Law, which is notsens par exeleans - to give amendments and additions to the basic law in the judiciary, without the possibility of MPs expressing themselves about it or to submit amendments. That is what the most says about the legislator of this law, and that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, I am sure that no judicial reform will be completed this time either, nor will this judicial reform bring about results in terms of standardising the situation in the judiciary and creating conditions to live in a normal rule of law. Again, I say, unfortunately, because neither this set of amendments nor the addition of the law is, and all this falls under the burden of the Government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27080	I'm warning you, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27081	The SPS parliamentary group will not vote for amendments unless amendments to the draft law are adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27082	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27083	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, before I engage in the debate, I would like to receive one piece of information: is it true that members of the Justice Reform Council, the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Republic Public Prosecutor, today by decision of the President of the Assembly, are suspended from their functions? If they did, I'd ask...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27084	What would you like to ask?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27085	I'd ask you to restrain the people here, because the state of emergency doesn't mean they can behave in an emergency. The state of emergency, on the contrary, needs to bring some people here and do everything we can to stabilize opportunities. So what I'm interested in and what's public presence is whether it's true that they are suspended by the decision of the President of the Supreme Court Assembly and the Republic Public Prosecutor. If that's true, I'd like us as Parliament, given that you're its president, to get that decision from you and the member of the Constitution and the law you've called upon, if that's what you've done. If not, then it should be denied and done not to disinformed the public, because in an emergency, since you have introduced censorship, if it has incorrect information, the state can further destabilise itself. If you have done so, I think the least you can do towards the MPs of this assembly is to deliver a decision on the suspension of Leposava Karamarkovic and Siniša Simic, since these are the people set up by this assembly. Mrs. Karamarkovic suffered from the previous regime and she came to this assembly's proposal and this judicial committee in place. Mr Simic has also appointed this assembly. If they are suspended, the act suspending them should be seen, suspended and on the basis of which member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27086	Are you looking for an answer or are you going to explain that dilemma further?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27087	No, I'm just asking you to put in order MPs in an O.R. who, regardless of the situation in which the state is, don't see that their behavior should be likened to that situation, but act like we're not in any emergency situation; here's the celebration and it's like what happened very quickly has been forgotten. I think it's terrible, that it speaks of their fear more for them than they fear for the state. You'll tell me, or information, when I finish what I started talking about. So, I just want to see if that information is correct, because if during the state of emergency there's false information, it's very dangerous, and it can further upset...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27088	Please, here, I'll give you information so you don't have a monologue and make that dilemma. It is not accurate information, and please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27089	Thanks, I'm a little relieved, since I know you haven't violated any more constitutional rights in this state of emergency, and that would be a flangant influence on an independent judiciary. Let's go back to the mentioned agenda points. I would ask you to courteous MPs on this left, because this is nothing like anything, and at least an emergency assembly, and where, if it is already dealing with these serious matters, MPs should be serious. The DSS proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 a set of laws from the judiciary; these were in that case, and now, the only reform laws this assembly passed. These laws were harshly amended when the DSS mandates were illegally and counter-constitutionally kidnapped in July 2002. Although we had warned then and after that that was illegal and illegal, someone did everything possible to keep these laws in force. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has put out of force a good part of these laws and has done that what has been done and what this assembly has done against the constitutional and against the law and that it is contrary to the principles of an independent judiciary, and this assembly, no matter how much it advocates, on the proposal of some people, so-called. The expert did it again to be the one to propose to judges, although otherwise envisaged, that it would again be the Justice Committee that will command the Serbian judiciary. It's something that's the opposite of what we've advocated, to build an independent judiciary, to build a rule of law. The DSS then made its law proposals that Serbia's Supreme Court decide on regular legal medications, which has been amended, and the Serbian Constitutional Court has now returned. The so-called experts have made amendments to the law of the four appeals court of the Republic. Can you imagine that there are four courts territorially deployed, all of the republican ranks; what would that mean, then, which court is in charge? That is one inability, and that is what our predecessors and this congregation have brought. It's the exact opposite of the intention of building a modern legal system. Four courts of the republican rank, such a complicated Serbian language does not know, because you can't have something in four variants and that it's all a republican rank. But obviously you didn't mind making four courts of the republican rank counter-constitutional and, of course, raising it afterwards, because it's not a free Constitutional Court, and that's what I'm saying, a pro-government constitutional court. But let's see what else you've destroyed. What is the situation in the judiciary today, what is the impact of the executive and legislative authorities on the judiciary, and how is the judicial situation going to be resolved? Today he was withdrawn from the procedure of the lustration law or so on. The law on human rights violations. Is this act that we got, where Mr. Ivan Andric withdraws the law, is that...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27090	No, it's just that the motion has been withdrawn to consider today's session as an emergency procedure, because of the government's election, and otherwise...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27091	Well, then obviously we have another lustration ahead of us, but we'll see where that stops. Madam Chairman, I would ask you to courteous MPs on this side, because this is no longer like an emergency or anything else, but a semi-primative coffee atmosphere. I apologize to the other MPs for using those words, but it is very ugly to see that someone in this situation behaves like this and does not have an elementary dose of decency, piety, and respect for those events that followed and that at this difficult moment he laughs, swears, throws, and uses abusive phrases in this congregation. I think it says more about those who do it than about those who sit here and talk about this pay phone; all of it will be recorded in a stenogram even though this transmission does not go directly. All right, ladies and gentlemen, that's what it says about you. If we go to the Law on Judges, let's say Article 6 is amended and Article 56 is said: "If, within 30 days of the date of the initiation of the procedure, the Great Personal Council does not decide on the basis of the resolution, the General Session will be decided within 30 days, and members of the Great Personal Council shall be suspended. "This member is contrary to Article 79 of the same law, which was passed and amended last July, which lists the specific reasons for the resolution and where it is said that the judge has been unwittingly doing his duty if, by exercising judicial authority or by performing affairs under that authority, he has participated in the end of the electoral will of citizens, political and mounted trials or if he has brutally violated human rights through the Constitution, laws and international contracts. The member is also said that the Great is personally more obliged to decide on a proposal by the President of the Court, or a higher court within six months of its submission. So, for a smaller, lighter and more harmless violation of the court's duty, a 30-day period is foreseen in which the Greater Personality has to determine the reasons for the resolution. It is not possible to establish that there is no reason to resolve, but rather to determine the reasons for the resolution. By submitting the proposal itself, the Great personal council does not have the opportunity to say that there are no grounds for resolution, but it is mandatory, under the provisions of the law, to establish the reasons for the resolution and, if it does not do so, the mandate ends, and the general session decides within 30 days. For serious injuries adopted by this assembly last July, a six-month deadline is foreseen to determine the existence of specific reasons for the resolution for particularly sensitive violations of human and civil rights and no sanctions for the termination of the mandate for members of the Great Personal Council. This provision clearly states that the intention of those who write the law is to solve a large number of politically inadequate judges by pressing and political influences on the judiciary. Whether this is a preparation for theft in some new elections, for choking some human and civil rights, we'll see, but certainly these provisions do not contribute to the efficiency of the judiciary. The DSS will support certain changes in the law, some will not; it will not support the abolition of courts in Kosovo and Metohija (so will more MP Djokovic), especially the abolition of courts in northern Kosovo, because our people are in northern Kosovo. You are in favour of resolving the Kosovo issue (if you are in favour); the government of the Republic of Serbia, unlike the DSS, supported the formation of the Alliance of municipalities in northern Kosovo; you supported the formation of the Union of municipalities on the one hand, and on the other hand shut down their Serbian judiciary in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27092	Do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27093	No, one sentence and I'm done. Is that a way to support the formation of municipalities there? No, it's you who, when it suits you, go down the UNMIK administration's hair in Kosovo, and then do internal political marketing, to create some national or who knows any other image, you support the Union of Municipalities. Then why not do something concrete and keep the judiciary in Kosovo, which provides our people, our citizens with legal protection there, but you push them into UNMIK's hands? Is this your fight for northern Kosovo, for Serbia and Resolution 1244? It's not. You work here with UNMIK, and here you fight for the interests of Serbia and the interests of Serbs in Kosovo. It is your hypocrisy that has led us to no longer have a judiciary and that we will not have attributes of statehood in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27094	The Minister of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27095	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a proposal to amend and supplement one piece of judicial law has been conditioned by some objective circumstances and there is no self-will, no hira, no hickey, no haranga, no attempt to discipline the judiciary in Serbia. What exactly is this about? The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts refers to the shift of the period of start of the work of the appeals courts on 1 January 2004. If you ask for a reason, I'll answer your question. There was simply no financial resources, no accommodation facilities. It took a lot of money. So we believed that some facilities would be released and that Serbia-Montenegro's state union would be established earlier. That didn't happen. Simply, there were no elementary accommodation and financial opportunities to start the work of appeals courts. The truth works, at the Council for the Reform of Justice, held on 11 February in the presence of the President of the Supreme Court, the Republic Prosecutor, the President of the Federal Constitutional Court, the Republic Constitutional Court, the Deputy President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice, so all relevant entities, has been agreed to postpone the start of the work of the appeals courts by 1 January. That was Monday, February 11th. Three days later, it was a cabinet session, February 14th, which adopted this proposal to amend the Courts' Law and a reciprocal proposal to amend the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime due to two-stage proceedings and binding on the work of appeals courts. So on February 14th, the government did its part and with the agreement of all the highest judicial officials in Serbia, the summit of the judicial authorities. Not by anyone's will or will, but in agreement, absolutely everyone. I'm saying, there's no mystery. If there was money, I wish. We've raised the judges' salaries, we've secured the Supreme Court, we're computerising Serbia's judiciary, but before dawn it can't dawn. That's one detail. The second detail refers to the Law of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not worth the demagogue and pathetic stories about Kosovo and Metohija. We know who is responsible for this fate of Kosovo and Metohija, we know why and for whom a protectorate has been established in Kosovo and Metohija. I wish I didn't. The government is just trying to change the order of things, but there's a UNMIK judiciary there, gentlemen. We no longer have the jurisdiction of justice in Kosovo and Metohija. It's not about the will or the will of the government again, it's about that. You have UNMIK's judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why the provisions of this law are changed, because they are no longer republican courts, since they have not been established for the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's one change. The second is that, while the civilian administration is going on, that is, as UNMIK insists on the judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija, our courts in the area do not exercise their jurisdiction. It's not worth living in a world of illusions, fiction, some false hopes. Unfortunately, it's what it is. Amendments to the Law on Judges; there is much lamentation here over the fate of judges and holders of judicial functions. What exactly is this about? The entire intensity of the amendments to the Law refers to the acceleration of the procedure. I must remind you that three judges have been cleared in two and a half years. That's why it's not the government, it's not the Department of Justice, it's the ones who need to do the job. It used to be the General Session of the Supreme Court, now it's a big personal council. There was controversy that it was suspended after the amendments to the laws that followed, amendments to the MPs last July. What was going on until then? Under the old law, when the General Session decided on this, it decided nothing on the valid initiative that the minister of justice had under the old law for more than 160 judges, or on a much more personal basis on a valid initiative by the president of the courts for about 100 or more than 100 judges. So there's no mystery again. We need to get out of that dead end and leave a short deadline for the Great Personal Council to do its job. If he doesn't, it should do the General Session of the Supreme Court. If she doesn't do it within the time limit, then she has to form a particularly larger one to deal with these things. Why does it have to be done? I don't know if anyone knows what country we live in or what our biggest problem is today: crime, organized crime, various forms of crime. In order for people who commit crimes to be prosecuted, it is necessary to have competent, credible, respectable holders of judicial functions. If that were the case, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia would not have found in its decision to release Dragoljub Milanovic from custody that there is no fear of escape. A man gets released from custody, gets away in a nice and orderly fashion, and nothing, it's a free plea. We wouldn't have had a famous case called Bugsy. It is not a problem what was the qualification of the work, it is not a problem how it was decided, but the problem is how it is possible to form a criminally larger one than the president of the Fourth Municipal Court in New Belgrade, who is a litigator, and his deputy is the head of the department, the culprit. He's the president of KV and he's supposed to be handling the case. Why do you think that is and does someone bring this into a causal relationship with the death of the Serbian Prime Minister? No one's thinking about it. I can put myself in the position of those who could possibly lose a cat in an event on the highway, but some people have lost children, parents, etc. That's tragic. The Limar case - a man is released from custody, and then the police are after him to bring him back into custody. The case of Uskokovic - they let him out of custody, and then they chase him back into custody. Eight murderers were misapplied by the law on criminal proceedings released from an investigative prison in Belgrade. One of them, whose last name is Repcic, because of the fear of being liquidated on the loose, went back to prison alone, and seven murderers walk free. Maybe one of them pulled the trigger and killed the prime minister of the Serbian government. Is that a free plea? Is that why no one should bear the responsibility of eight of the most ferocious killers walking this country? Is that an independent judiciary? Furthermore, what about a judge who, in the case of Strickovic, in 48 hours doesn't make a solution to conduct an investigation? Those who have little knowledge of what is right and have been in the judiciary, I don't mean the driving lawyers, they know that the solution in the investigation is a single paragraph solution, a completely formal solution. Because that judge didn't write that one paragraph in 48 hours, the person in custody is automatically released from custody. The same is the famous Zabunovic case. So, what do you think? Doesn't this man know that in 48 hours he needs to make a decision about conducting an investigation? And what do you think? Should he be responsible for that? The Ibar Highway was mentioned. I must tell you that there are over 300 cases against members of the Zemun clan before various courts. None of them ended with a judicial verdict. Is that an independent judiciary? It must be established, gentlemen, responsibility, and will be established. So the leaders of Serbia's judiciary said that no one from the government, the executive authority (that's what the Supreme Court President said), turned the phone around asking someone to be tried, ruled, that someone should be convicted of this much or that much, or released. Independence is in decisions, but it can't be understood as independence from everything and everything, that murderers walk free. The primary problem of this country and this society is crime. Go to the streets, ask the passersby what they think of the judges and the independent judiciary. And the people don't know the difference, he says -- you're all power, and don't make that famous distinction between legislative, executive and judicial authority. He blames the government, the prime minister, the late prime minister, or the newly elected prime minister, the minister of justice, as if we judge, condemn, accuse, judge, propose, choose, resolve, etc. Therefore, judges and judges are not an independent cosmic body, they are the courts and judges of the Serbian state and must be in office of the state of Serbia, like all of us who perform any public function. So it's not about that. Or, what do you think of the case where a man trades in cytostatics with a company called La Roche from Switzerland. Millions and millions for cytostatics are given. And then they let him out of custody, take his house as collateral or collateral. What are we talking about? The public, of course, accuses all of it, who else would if not the minister of justice, executive power, etc. We can't hide behind a flossula about an independent judiciary and free jurisprudence. The citizens of this country have no faith and no trust in our judiciary. One more thing is mentioned -- the president of the Supreme Court is obliged to inform parliament a year in advance of which judges are retired. Is that done? It's not. Why not? Because the President of the Supreme Court has sympathy for a number of people who have long ended their working lives. There's nothing to judge and determine. If you're 65 years old, it's like it's gonna be day or night. We want young people, smart people, educated people, who follow parallel legislation, European justice, who are on the Internet, who know everything, they have a future ahead of them. We need such justice and there will be justice in Serbia, even if the world fails. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-18-0.u27096	I thank Mr. Secretary. We'll continue the work tomorrow. Since there aren't many people reported for discussion, tomorrow will be the day for the vote, after the debate is over. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that using an electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Vuko Antonijevic and Miroslav Markicevic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT OF COURT (joint principled search with amendments to the law on judges and the repression of organised crime) The Justice Minister, Mr Vladan Batic, came forward.
