ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that according to official records today's session is attended by 108 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Aleksandar Vatovic, Sreten Mitrović, Ljubisa Maravic, Kasa Jožef, Bojan Kostreš, Srdjan Sikimić, Milos Radivojčević, Neda Arnerić, and in the morning Pal Shandor and Jelena Milenkovic. In accordance with Articles 162, 165 and 80(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time than the deadline laid down in Article 80. The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and given the importance of the post carried out by the war crimes prosecutor, to pick the prosecutor as soon as possible. In addition to the meeting of the Thirteenth Extraordinary Session, which was convened at the request of a group of 107 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been sent to you for the maintenance of the Thirteenth Extraordinary Session with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, the following Dn e n i d: 1. The motion to elect a war crimes prosecutor, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is moving to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposed to elect a war crimes prosecutor, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You've received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for discussion, is five hours. I would like the representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit the lists of those declared for this agenda item. Consent to Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search on a proposal to elect a war crimes prosecutor. Proposer representative, Justice Minister, Mr Vladan Batic, is not present. Do the presidents of the committees want the word? No, they don't. ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want to take part in the debate on this agenda? National MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33134	On the agenda is the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which it proposes to the National Assembly to elect Vladimir Vukcevic as war crimes prosecutor. A few months ago, we passed the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders, and then the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group presented a large number of reasons that it considered at the time, and today it feels that we do not need these special authorities. The law has been passed and it creates certain obligations, one of these obligations is the choice of this special prosecutor. It is obvious that the government, as a proponent of this law, believes that this proposed candidate can best prosecute all those persons who are suspected of committing one of the acts against humanity. With this proposal, the government tells us that this candidate, this man, can replace Carla del Ponte in Serbia and manages the criminal prosecution department, which will act in front of an outcast court of the UN tribunal, which should carry out a denamination on the principle of alleged personal responsibility. Probably the proposed candidate knows what his obligations are. Because he knows what his obligations are, he's probably given consent, and that consent means he swears he's going to prosecute all the ones he's got a reasonable suspicion they've done some of the crimes in chapter 16. Criminal law, and there are also crimes of genocide and a whole set of crimes called war crimes. The special obligation of this prosecutor is to apply Article 5. The statutes of the UN tribunal. Article 5 The UN tribunal's statute states: "The international court has the authority to prosecute persons responsible for the following crimes committed against the civilian population in the armed conflict, regardless of whether the conflict is an international or internal character: murder, extermination, slavery, deportation, imprisonment, rape, persecution on a political, racial or religious basis and other inhumane acts? "It is likely that this prosecutor knows there is also a Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and that there is also a Article 9 in The Hague tribunal's Statute that speaks of the same jurisdiction, so I would read that article: "The international court and national courts are also responsible for the prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1 January 1991. The International Court takes precedence over national courts. At any stage of the proceedings, the International Court may formally request the national court to give jurisdiction to the International Court in accordance with this Statute and the Rules of Procedure and Evidence." So the proposed candidate, Vukcevic, in that diapazon, should move. According to Chapter 16, he's going after war crimes, and if anyone tells him, probably genocide. If the process of prosecution does not show sufficient efficiency there is a Article 9. The statutes of the International Court of Justice and there is the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and everything that our prosecutor had and some insinuation and some suspicion of a lower degree of probability, it could be an indication that Carla del Ponte pulled the case and moved that face to The Hague. This should be taken into account, and this should be cited because there is a major national prank at work. The prank comes down to the following, everything The Hague doesn't finish, it's gonna be this special prosecutor, special court and special staff trained to do this kind of work here. This gentleman has accepted to do this job, which means that if The Hague implies that some trial is not interesting, has no attention or is too provocative for the international community, that simply this case and our man are being packed up, sent here, there will be this Mr. Prosecutor to make enough good documentation and to finish the job. This isn't about determining whether or not there is, it's about implementing something that someone's already decided. The second scenario is that the people of the former government who are in front of The Hague tribunal will be sentenced there, and on the basis of the arguments of that verdict, then the serial verdicts here will be without any special evidence procedure to depreciate themselves by that famous scenario of a few years ago, that is 2,000 people; and it is not the problem of 2,000 people, nor their personal responsibility, the problem is that the national dignity and pride of this people, in order to be a simple testo, could be shaped from abroad according to their opinion. So, Wolfevic agrees with that, too. But Mr. Vukcevic will face one big problem first step. Before any proceedings brought against our citizen, he will, in accordance with this unconstitutional law and the Statute of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, have to initiate proceedings against Solana, Clinton and others who have committed the very crimes referred to in Article 5. The statutes, and these are crimes against humanity. It's crimes against the civilian population, that's the bombing that can't be forgotten. This is the first challenge, and if this Mr. Vukcevic initiates these actions, he will thus prove that he meets the conditions set out in the explanation, and one of these conditions is impartiality, a high moral character and all other qualities that adorn one person. Here it is, the first challenge is that and that's where it should be shown. The second challenge is, so I guess a case against Neboja Covic should be initiated, it is known what he was doing in the White monastery during the armed conflicts, he stole the entire factory. He would certainly have to investigate the case of Ratomir Tanic's testimony in The Hague tribunal and examine the role of Mihajlovic, he has always been in power. It is impossible for the authorities to be in The Hague before the authorities without Mihajlovic being in front of our court here. Ratomir Tanic opened up and said everything. Most of the members of the party are in The Hague, and General Jokic and we do not order any further. If this clears up within the government, then this prosecutor may have some perspective. We expect this debate to answer these questions, so let's see if this canadidat just meets all the conditions for choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33135	Are any of the other presidents applying for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33136	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will vote against the election of war crimes prosecutors that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to choose today and we think it is quite logical because the SPS parliamentary group in this National Assembly voted against the adoption of a law establishing this function. In fact, we cannot accept the choice of a war crimes prosecutor based on a law that is primarily political and that has absolute marketing significance for this government. At that time, we also said a trail of events, which has followed over the past period since the adoption of the law to this day, has shown the political character of this law and that there is one co-operation, an agreement with Karl del Ponte, which is the Supreme Prosecutor for all the events in this country. What she decides has been done and represents a war crime will obviously be the subject of work, that is, this prosecutor, that is, the subject matter of dealing with this law. We have pointed out many reasons why we do not think this law should be adopted and why this law simply does not make any contribution, so to speak, neither in solving this issue nor in the overall political situation. When I say that it is no contribution to solving this issue, the choice of prosecutors will not move anything there, because it really wanted to determine who committed war crimes, the existing state authorities and government organisations in our country are quite sufficient and it provides sufficient grounds for the perpetrators of war crimes to be prosecuted, to hold trials and to be punished fairly. Many things have happened in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, in the SRJ and in the Republic of Serbia itself, and we do not have relevant knowledge of all these events, nor are they all placed in the same basket. We cannot accept the choice of war crimes prosecutors because it is not mentioned at all, nor does this authority intend to do anything about those crimes committed by NATO in 1999 against our country. In 78 days and nights of bombing, many people were killed, the economy was destroyed, all that had a certain military-strategic value, the damage was over $100 billion, and there is nothing to do about it, but there are only verbal statements and we see that Carla del Ponte simply doesn't want against the perpetrators of these war crimes that they did to this country and this people to do anything. We believe that simply not even this war crimes prosecutor will have anything else to do with political character. In fact, in the current law, there was sufficient ground for procedures to be initiated within the prosecutor's office to determine war crimes. The formation of this war crimes procedure, aside from the organised crime and the chief prosecutor, calls it that, puts us in a position to have three large prosecutors, and the issue of their work will be very discriminatory. Logically, we could neither accept the election of this war crimes prosecutor, because he will bring in acts on internal organisation, systematization, or in the war crimes prosecutor's office, but it will be agreed by the minister responsible for the judiciary. It also shows the true nature of this law. In fact, it is also the fate of this law that it represents all that this authority needs, that is, in the judiciary. You can see that in this detail, you see in many others, because not just an organization, not just a set of profits, there are many more elements. We are not convinced that this war crimes prosecutor will do anything for war crimes in connection with the number of citizens who committed war crimes and who were at the beginning of January and February 2001 for political reasons, which was then a gesture of goodwill towards the so-called. to the international community, when a law on amnesty and a few dozen people, several hundred Albanian people, has been passed on a federal level, and are being charged with various crimes, including war crimes, have simply been released from prison. How could someone who was then in the Federal Assembly vote in favour of this law and amnesty these people from the crimes they have committed, or at least amnesty them from responsibility for what they are accused of, now expects that some procedure can be conducted against them or possibly that they may be the subject of the prosecution's work or of this law on war crimes. That doesn't make sense. The one who gave support to the Albanians being released on a federal level will do nothing to make them subject to the law and this court's work again. In this law and in this context, there is much verbal and this has been shown, and it is primarily about the marketing character of the law, and we do not see that anything more significant is going to move. In the end, it simply cannot be mentioned either NATO, nor this other element, because the current government obviously runs away from these hot topics, as it escapes from saying that American soldiers are not the subject of the Permanent Court in Rome, but to write and sign a special separate contract that the bions were excluded from national legislation. Unfortunately, we think that this prosecutor, when elected, will, because we expect the assembly majority to secure his choice, and do what the Hague court and Carla del Ponte tell him. We have so far had the situation that it has been claimed that there will be no more war crimes indictees in our country, so Carla del Ponte, at the time of "Sablje", announced some accusations and based on these announcements, Stanisic and Simatovic were handed over to The Hague Court, and what it says about the co-operation that exists between the committee, to say about co-operation with The Hague court, but personal co-operation. We're talking about who's going to be the case of The Hague Court. Meanwhile, Carla del Ponte has announced 17-18 new indictments and will likely be extradited as well. Now a new number is being mentioned. So, the number of people is constantly increasing, and this prosecutor who gets elected will obviously only do what comes to him from The Hague, or what Carla del Ponte sets him up as some sort of material and a basis for his work. When it comes to the man himself, Mr. Vukčević, it would be incorrect to mention something about his professional and other qualities. What we, representatives of the SPS, are interested in about this proposal, which is that from this data delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we do not see well enough what Mr Vukcevic was doing. In fact, here we only list some tax data related to his work résumé, which is just a practical movement in the ministry. We can see that the D.A.'s office man was there as an intern, so the deputy district attorney at the district attorney's office, then the deputy district attorney and vice-president of the republic's public prosecutor. Technically, he is someone who meets the conditions for this election, but the question is, what about that other part of the law that regulates the choice of war crimes prosecutors. In addition to this high-moral reputation and impartiality, it is said in Article 5, and there is no adequate knowledge about any other, and it says that it is necessary for the candidate to have significant experience in the area of criminal law, that the transfer in the establishment has persons who possess knowledge and experience in the field of international humanitarian law and human rights. When the law was passed, this question was regulated. We specifically said, and it appears that we were absolutely right, that this law would have a marketing character, and that this provision in law, because we socialists would mention it here in the Assembly, would have a primary marketing character. And if it weren't, it would probably have written in the biography what Mr. Vukcevic was doing about international humanitarian law and simple on the issue of general human rights, human rights and freedoms. What Mr. Vukcevic did capitalally, and what he recommends is that he can do this job successfully. I'm saying, the data's very squishy. All you can see is that he's a D.A.'s office man. Obviously, work needs to be done, to choose a man and to formally qualify for the application of this law. The essence obviously won't matter, because if the essence were important, it wouldn't have been the law as it is, it would have been foreshadowed by the Parliament, and no law like this would have been passed. So, we SPS MPs will vote against Mr Vukcevic's election, for the simple reason that we think neither this law nor the prosecutor have its essence, that they are primarily political character, so since the law has been passed, the prosecutor is elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33137	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. We continue to work towards the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33138	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my usual brief and concise presentation, I must express my dissatisfaction with the SPS over the fact that such an important moment, such as the choice of a recently established state body, a special prosecutor for war crimes, is taking place in a really accelerated way. We didn't get the material in time, we weren't really familiar with when it was going to be scheduled. As practice has been in the past few months, this congregation wants to make some solutions that are obviously not based on realistic foundations, and it is wanted to replace certain shortcomings in essence with the accelerated process. So, as we have already been able to hear from the presentation of SPS deputy group chief Zarko Obradovic, our parliamentary group will not vote in favour of electing a proposed candidate for special prosecutor for war crimes because the concept of creating a special prosecutor, which will have a privileged position in relation to other prosecutors, is more precisely compared to the prosecution, generally taking place in the Republic of Serbia. This concept is not acceptable to us, and in our humble opinion it will lead to further complicated work by the prosecution. We believe that there is a way to process certain perpetrators of war crimes in the current organisation and in the system of public prosecutors' work, not to establish a special public prosecutor's office or bodies to prosecute such cases. In principle, we are against one such work, and I can only further say that the data on the proposed candidate are such that we cannot conclude whether it is a man who, objectively, objectively and professionally, in accordance with experience and knowledge, will perform this rather complex function, given the legal shortcomings contained in the Law itself on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the processing of war crimes offenders. So we couldn't get familiar with the quality of the proposed material properly, with the qualifications of the candidates proposed for this function. In addition, and the reason more because of our refusal to vote for one such proposal, is that this candidate or man elected to this post will have a difficult task not to look back at the war crimes committed at the SRJ premises in 1999 and the aggression on our country. It is important that the proposed candidate responds to the challenges, understands professionally and fulfils his duty. No matter who encourages or whoever commits the crimes of war crimes in this area should be properly prosecuted. This only confirms that the professional, as well as the moral qualification of the proposed candidate is very important and therefore we advocate to present ourselves in an even brighter and more public manner of candidate qualifications, so that we can identify ourselves according to its quality for this responsible function. Also, we don't believe that any quality or qualifications of having a proposed public prosecutor will be allowed to look back at thousands of killed people in 1999, we don't believe that this man will be able to stand up for strength and look the truth in the eye and say, "He who committed war crimes in 1999 should answer." These are, first of all, the people who have committed aggression on our country, those who have destroyed our bridges, our schools, killed our children. As a result, the SPS attitude will not be changed. The SPS will not vote for the proposed candidate, despite the fact that the proposed candidate may have certain qualities, but from the materials provided, we cannot see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33139	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The next person registered for the word is MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33140	Ladies and gentlemen, after the Law establishing the court, the prosecution and the institution for the detection and trial of persons who have committed or suspected of committing war crimes on the ground of the former SFRJ and the SRJ, today you are also proposing to us the Serbian version of Carla del Ponte, the war crimes prosecutor, Mr Vladimir Vukcevic. In advance, I feel sorry for Mr Vukčević, he's got an ungrateful job. His mission will be to find and find those people he suspects or whom someone else says committed crimes, to bring these people to trial and to be, perhaps even to the justice of God, convicted. I regret him only on one condition, that he was forced to do it, that he had to do it, that someone ordered him to do it. If he accepted it voluntarily, then it would be a sin on his soul, although here he has, I heard from the president of the National Assembly, even MPs who volunteered to be on that lustration committee, so a number of candidates were elected from a certain number believed to be doing what the regime expects of them. To say immediately that Serbian radicals are not against the trial of all those persons who have committed war crimes or who are justifiably suspected of committing war crimes. No one can justify them. No one is against being brought to justice and punished as they deserve it. We also said that when we discussed the Law on War Crimes Trial, but we are against the fact that this is a matter of special courts, that it is done by special prosecutors, that it is said in advance to the world that there have been a lot of war crimes in Serbia, that Serbs are such a people that they are prone to commit crimes and that we also need to establish special courts, special teams of people, institutions, prosecutors and that a large number of people are involved in these matters. This prosecutor is going to be under a lot of pressure. He's going to have to find someone he has to charge, to show the world how determined we are to fight war criminals. He will be ordered by all, and by those from the government, because the greater number of convicted people are expected to be more help, and those from the world, and those from The Hague, so that he will be between the two fires, and on the other hand there will be justifiable pressure from the public that these jobs are unnecessary and that he is a man who is in someone's name an executioner and who will judge Serbs, especially if we know that the largest number of people arrested in The Hague is right out of Serb nationality. What happens if one of the former high-ranking officials of Serbia and the SRJ or senior officers is in The Hague in any way convicted of genocide or committing war crimes? All those who were like regular army soldiers or volunteers involved in wars on the ground of the former Yugoslavia will be under special attention and surveillance and may be under indictment or under investigation for committing war crimes. Who knows how far it'll go, maybe to the level of sergeants, regular soldiers, regular cops, etc. When will Mr. Vukcevic be successful? He'll be successful when there's a large number of defendants and convicts. I am particularly afraid that he will not be a mere executioner of the UN tribunal's order, that he will receive charges from the tribunal, that he will receive the names of the people to be convicted from the tribunal, that he will not be asked by the government to charge a number of people with committing war crimes, to remove them from the political scene in Serbia. The SRS will not vote in favour of the war crimes prosecutor's proposal, as it did not vote in favour of the Law establishing courts, institutions and prosecutors. We find it unnecessary, we think that in advance a large group of people in Serbia are being brought under suspicion and that we will, in practice, tell the world that we are such a criminal people and that for this reason we must establish such courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33141	I apologize to MP Rado Bajic. People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33142	Ladies and gentlemen, the DSS voted in favour of the Law on War Crimes Trials in Serbia, believing it to be very good for Serbia as a state to start judging the most serious crimes or acts against war law, acts against citizens, or the most serious crimes that are regulated by all international conventions and which are within the jurisdiction of the UN tribunal. In this direction were our amendments to the Law on War Crimes Trials, just to extend jurisdiction and to ensure that this jurisdiction is equal to the jurisdiction of the UN tribunal: it means crimes against international law and crimes against humanity; and another amendment, which is also accepted, that these trials refer to the entire territory of the former Yugoslavia. So we here could judge all crimes, without distinction, both those who did, if there were, members or citizens of the SRJ, and now Serbia-Montenegro, as well as those committed against Serbs in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why we supported it, we think it's very important, and one of the indicators of the state's maturity is to form a court like this. We do not support the proposals of Vladan Batic, who are always more than controversial and increasingly party-colored. Our support here primarily goes to the choice of Vukčević, not as Vukčević, but as the beginning of the constitution of the organ, so that this court can liven up, or function. Therefore, we will support this proposal, as a principled position, to enable the constitution of this court to be established and to show good will for that court to start working, i.e. to give support to that court to start working. If you're against each other, I don't see what the third solution is. There is no third solution, and therefore I think it is good to maintain the establishment, the establishment of a war crimes court in Serbia as such and as a state to show, unfortunately, not with this authority, but with some other authority, that it is capable of combating these crimes, that it is mature as a state to build such a court, which will have a lot of jurisdiction, a lot of authority to prosecute for the most serious crimes against humanity. The Democratic Party of Serbia supports the proposal. The second thing, with special attention, will be to the work of this court and the prosecution for the processing of these war crimes cases, because we believe that there will be special attention to the public, special attention to the international community and of course special attention to our local public, which is very important to us, and especially to the fact that the issues of war crimes committed against Serbs in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina have not been opened, that the international community and the Hague tribunal have not shown a particular desire to open it, and Croatia, when it has tried war crimes in Lora, which are committed against war prisoners from Montenegro, has imposed more than a mere penalty. In this way, she simply mocked crimes, or supported crimes committed in Croatia, or Lora. The same case is with Ante Gotovina and all those convicted by The Hague of war crimes, who are Croatian citizens. We should pay this attention, and I expect this prosecutor to pay particular attention to war crimes committed against Serbs in Croatia and Bosnia, and not to pay attention to the prosecution of only those citizens of Serbia-Montenegro who are suspected of committing war crimes, but to giving equal - attention to war crimes committed against Serbs in Bosnia, Croatia and Kosovo, thus establishing a two-way communication with The Hague tribunal. I mean here not only the Hague prosecutor's office, but the Hague tribunal, so that the documentation they have for certain crimes would be delivered to us, and so that this prosecution of documents that have come to me through the conduct of war crimes proceedings against Serbs would deliver to The Hague tribunal, thus helping to develop a media image that was created for many years, that Serbs were the only ones who committed crimes in the Balkans, to see that Serbs were victims many times and that simply those victims caused some crimes. That is why it is necessary to shed light on everything and thus contribute to some solutions that may result in some different relations here in this part of the Balkans. I think that for all of this was an equally important truth and reconciliation committee that existed in this country, which no longer exists in Serbia-Montenegro, which would otherwise try to shed light on all that was happening in Serbia-Montenegro, or in the premises of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in another way to help the truth and reconciliation of people living in these areas and in spite of this court to make it no longer be. But by the will of this assembly, which passed the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Charter, which simply because it was a creation, the idea of President Kostunica, did not want to support such a proposal that the truth and reconciliation committee remains, works and continues to work, and it has done and done a lot of construction to help this tribunal much, and in general, further work. It goes to honor those who have been against it, but certainly should create conditions for this commission or some other commission to continue to deal with these issues from another aspect, but simply to investigate this matter. The Democratic Party of Serbia will support a proposal for a special prosecutor's election, but with one goal only, to allow the establishment of all bodies in accordance with the law as soon as possible, to allow the start of a war crimes trial in Serbia and thus to protect the integrity of our country and our citizens and thus contribute to the construction of a legal system and courts in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33143	The word has a folk MP, Rada Bajic, and the next one registered for the word is Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33144	Madam President Micic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, as MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia were against the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes offenders' proceedings, we are also categorically against today's proposal to elect a public prosecutor, i.e. a special prosecutor for war crimes. There's a lot of reason. There's not a single positive element that could appear, and as we said about the law of reason is a lot, and we'll just say that we're automatically about that if there was any indication that someone committed a war crime should be tried. Let him carry that cross individually, not to be carried by the people, but that's why we had more jurisdiction over the courts and prosecutors who could bear that burden, not to be founded on someone's request, and that's certainly a request from The Hague to establish here both a special court and a special prosecutor for war crimes. I wish that man was here, so he could say if he had chosen it voluntarily or if he had been ordered to be a defense attorney, beyond his will, because I'd really like to hear his motives, which is why he accepted this. Does that mean he'll call and accuse everything that comes to him, names on the Hague list of war crimes. A typical political example is that law, setting up a special prosecutor. How else to explain already that The Hague tribunal had thought and done what was not interesting to him, that it would simply instill in the world public opinion that Serbs were war criminals, that everything that was done against them was started by bombing and sanctions, and now tell them that they themselves formed a war court and appointed a special prosecutor. They are simply such a people, and all that was done to them is completely justified. What's going to happen to those lawsuits and charges against the war crimes offenders when it comes to Ship's terrorists? We have amnesty in order to do some good over 1,900 war criminals or criminals from Kosovo territory, Cypriot criminals, and I would like to ask the prosecutor if one of these proceedings will be re-launched, whether the Mazreka brothers, who committed terrible crimes in Klecka, will be there. They raped girls, killed them or burned them in Krecan, and now they're free to walk in Kosovo without anyone in the world or from us wondering what it is. Today you could read an article in the paper that Italian journalist Maria Lina-Veka published a book on the problem of crime against Serbs in Kosovo. He says the whole world or Italy has published a book, but Serbs will not translate into Serbian, because in Serbia they do not seem to want to hear what was happening in Kosovo. We are witnessing that these days congressmen in America are now publicly calling Clinton to lie and to produce false information about persecution and crimes against the Shiptar people, only to simply convince the world's opinion that Serbia needs to be bombed. When all this comes out today and there are many people who are clean consciences, with human traits, who are all that was, but they're telling the truth, and when it is seen that the Serbian people in no segment were guilty, we simply want to contribute even more to that public opinion that we were criminals, that we were the ones who violated war rights and war laws. Which is a lot, it's a lot. I think we've come to a bottom from which we must agree together to stop, to tear and to reject it more, and not to ask anything for it, we can't wait for it to come true. As long as we put ourselves through self-restraint. Should we have let nothing new Jasenovites, let nothing new pits and fill themselves with Serb corpses, that we should not simply speak and stand in the defense of that people. When they bombed the columns of refugees, when 500,000 and 600,000 people were expelled from the landscapes, then there are simply no criminals there, but criminals are those who went to defend. For that reason, I think we can list how many facts and cases. For these reasons, the SPS MPs cannot agree with that law either, nor can they accept this wartime, so to speak, the special prosecutor for war crimes, for this reason we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33145	The word has been given by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33146	Ladies and gentlemen, we've been working Serbianly against this war crimes prosecutor's institution. That means we're against the candidates. I wonder if candidate Vukcevic has something national in him, because if he did, he probably wouldn't accept this function. We Serbian radicals have pointed out, ever since the UN tribunal worked, that all those who bear such crime should be tried in this country, to be tried in Serbia. However, you co-operated with those who were Serbia's biggest carnivores and the Serbian people, and you tried, because that is the only way you could survive both materially and politically in this country by teaching the biggest hero in Serbia, by teaching those who fought to save Serbia and the Serbian people. What counterpart Krasic mentioned is, I don't know if this prosecutor will try or want to file a public application against those who have done the greatest crimes to this people, which is Solana. However, I think, seeing how interesting this topic is today, and how empty this hall is today, you must understand that this is directed against all those who have opposed and who have participated in the defence of Serbia and their people. You know, when the country is lost, when the brightest one is lost, we have an example of the Palestinians, it's very difficult to come back, or generations that are behind us with their struggle, very difficult to bring back, freedom and independence. However, I think by forming this court, you actually want to deal with political opponents, with all those who are not on your line, on the line of treason. Please, it is present these days that military officials, military experts from NATO bases are present today on our ground, holding seminars for our military experts, holding seminars for those who have opposed this great force, this hegemony, these villains, and today they hold seminars for our military heroes who have tried and managed to save this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33147	The word has been given by MP Rajko Baralic, followed by MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33148	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is today just the last act in the execution of orders coming from the same centre, to bring the right of a nation to self-defense and to send in the form of a war crimes trial a message that countering a great risk that in some sense an entire nation, its history, its fate, its position of debauchery and in a way that has almost not been seen in the history of an informal protectorate, manages one country and one nation. The D.A.'s district attorneys had until now the jurisdiction to judge all those who have wronged the Geneva Convention, the Law of War, everything else that is in war like one madness, the war is madness, possibly happening, but in this way by selecting a special prosecutor, we practically acknowledge that the largest number of people who responded neatly to pisve in their war units, risked that only by someone's court, which is usually on the outside, would be classified as war criminals. We, of course, can't vote for the prosecutor, we didn't vote for the law either. I would like to say once again that the war crimes proceedings in this country have been conducted, that a significant number of people have been convicted of war crimes, that military and other bodies have done so, that we are the same persons, or persons who have done the same things, who belong to the Albanian people, have been amnesty-free, completely courting someone, or by solving someone's warrant, without even having managed to free our citizens, who have suspected that they have done similar things, have been arrested and held to this day in private prisons in Kosovo. So there was nothing we could do for them, in a way that is normal for a country and that is expected of those who have responsibility for the exercise of power. It is not good, as much as anyone seems necessary, that by selective justice, one condition that is defined everywhere in the world as aggression, as a war that is not approved by any official international forum, above all I mean by the Security Council, is not good that we honor those who participated in it, doing the defense of their people, their territories, and that we spread the red carpet below the bottom of those who bombed this country, who left it without industrial, technical capacity, responsible for thousands of deaths, for the loss of tens of thousands of jobs in my city alone, 10,000 people were left without a job, because the capacities of "Freedom", the Technical Remont Service, "CER" in the area, in the Lukas of the Chemical Industry "Milan Blažević", because the repeater Ovčar, because it was affected by the post office in Užitnik, because it was hit the Rudnik. There can't be a speech about someone forgetting about it here. There's got to be a speech about someone here having to do something. Mr. Javier Solana was an official commanding officer, he was the man who pulled, in the initial sense, the trigger to bomb our country. Why doesn't a single prosecutor start a proper procedure because you said that those who did it before didn't do it properly? Does anyone have the right to forgive such devastation of land, such material and human losses? Is there any right to forgive the war damage measured by billions of dollars, receiving donations of ten or hundreds of thousands of euros, and having an obligation to explain to the nation that this country and this nation would not survive without? These things don't go to those we think are just mere voters. These people think about this in one way that the government obviously has no hearing. People know exactly, no matter what time has passed, who and what he was responsible for, and who has no right, because he disagrees with political order or with a personal solution in a country to shorten, bomb, destroy it. This is the fate of our country. There will be another country. I don't think that's normal. I don't think it's normal for someone to have the right to come and burn your house down because they don't like your house and blame you when you start shutting it down. There is no interest in this topic in the way this theme deserves it. The government's relationship to one of the most important issues here has not been defined, and this is a relationship to war damage. There is no respect for the arguments of the MPs, who speak of this in a way that is contrary to what you stand for here. But it's obvious that citizens, about this topic and about the whole package of measures that you're taking, have opinions that will show up in the next election, which you don't have to doubt at all. The Special Prosecutor will have the opportunity, he will have the obligation to do everything he's told and everything he's told. There's no way he's gonna be doing his own professional, personal, professional will in this case. He'll do the things he's expected to do here. No matter what, that thing puts one country in the position of an informal protectorate. I know that a large number of colleagues, at least part of the argument that I'm making here, share with me, but for reasons that are of a party and political nature, can't by formal vote give me the right to do what I'm saying. But I also know that it's almost not recorded in the history that one government is thus reckoning with those people who at one point did the only thing that was possible and the only thing that was expected of them -- they stood by their war unit and tried to do the impossible. It's the fate of this country, through history, and so is this people. It seems to me that, almost never in history, this people did not come to such low branches as to their relationship or the relationship of their authority to those who deserve respect in every normal country, nor do they have a substitute for thesis. Anyone who, in the least possible way, has sinned against everything that makes the Geneva Convention, the Law of War, and any other normally or any other right, for such a thing should be held strong. But it's thousands of people, at least that's what Carla del Ponte says, who will be the subject of investigating and handling this special prosecutor and prosecutor. Is it possible that all those people who stood in front of their people's machine one day would only answer because they did what was their legal, human, professional, ethical, national and any other obligation? I know this will be voted today, as well as a lot of other things that have already been voted. I don't know if the governor of the National Bank of Serbia will also be elected until MPs of the Democratic Alternative appear in the hall. But everyone repents when they get married in a hurry. You'll share that fate, which I'm absolutely sure of. If you don't calm Mom down, you won't set up Cora Widowsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33149	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic. After him, the word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the Serbian Radical Party has been raised several times after this speaker on the issue of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities for the implementation of the war crimes proceedings. We from the Serbian Radical Party say the law is anti-constitutional, unnecessary and excessive. Since 1993, since the founding of the UN tribunal, Serbs have mostly been taken there. In The Hague, Serbs are tried for war crimes they did not commit or did some acts against war law, but what should be seen in the context of the events of a civil or religious war on the premises of the former SFRY. Does the adoption of this law and implementation of the provisions of this law mean the existence of a move to abolish the UN tribunal? Does this law mean that all those cases should be provided for, and we, in the Serbian Radical Page, state this opportunity, which will come under attack, not because of their individual guilt or responsibility, which will not be determined, but that the orders of Americans and other Western European officials will be carried out in your power to judge those officers and those soldiers that they are pointing to you? In our opinion, in the Serbian Radical Party's view, the already existing legal order, in concrete material and criminal legislation, already exists in the Criminal Procedure Act, provisions under which the process of determining individual guilt and responsibility for possible war crimes could be carried out. In this proposal, you state the name Vladimir Vukcevic as a war crimes prosecutor, who will win and play the role of Carla del Ponte, one ungrateful role and it is very important that in the implementation of this unconstitutional, inhumane, unwarranted law be impartial, objective and non-selective. The first thing we're going to estimate in the first few months of his work on this function, provided he's elected, and I don't doubt it, since you're going to show in all sorts of ways as if you've made a decision most of the total number in this assembly, whether he's going to start proceedings against those people who have committed war crimes, war crimes; there's also stealing factory machines for making plugs from the White Manastir, and you all know, we've mentioned more than once in the SRS for this speaker that Nebojsa Covic did it. Did the qualification for Vladimir Vukcevic, a candidate for the war crimes prosecutor, that he was called by members of the family of 11 people killed seven-eight years ago in the case of "Grmec", bring charges against responsible people, and should have been charged with determining responsibility for 11 workers who died in this case. He argued as an excuse for not pressing charges that he had received a political order from the top of the left-wing government and that it was his excuse for not doing so, and that there were legal conditions and legal justifications to press charges against the responsible people at the Thunder factory in Belgrade. Does this mean that a man whose expertise, further on legal knowledge, we will not talk about moral qualities, but this case indicates, on condition that what happened eight years ago was true, that he did not press charges for unwarranted reasons, whether he would press charges by order or by justice and by law passed by other laws, other legal norms and the legal system of Serbia-Montenegro. Is his motives fair and honorable, or is it some sort of motive of material nature or perhaps some other motive? In any case, the goal of the United States is to create a new world order, they have done many countries and many peoples great evil, because they have done evil, and they have influenced that so-called. The international community calls Serbs for war crimes both on the responsibility of individuals both in The Hague and on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33151	The word is by MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by MP Dragan Ljubojevic and is the last registered speaker in the debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at a time when Mr. Dragan Marscanin was president of the assembly, he asked all MPs to come to the National Assembly meetings so there would be quorum and he kept insisting on it. Now I was happy, because Mr. Martian almost two months ago I didn't see him in the Assembly Hall, and apparently when he's no longer in office as president of the Assembly, that's no longer true, and that advice he gave to the MPs of the SRS, or even at the congregation restaurant, where he's often met us. After Marsican, an even worse alternative came for Parliament Speaker Natasa Micic, and the rules of procedure proposed by the DSS, she also used many times. That's exactly the point, Miss Emilia, because the woman is a public prosecutor in The Hague, Carla del Ponte, and whether it was the government's representatives who were afraid to put up another woman now, although she was a strange woman with too many male hormones, so they suggested Vladimir Vukcevic as some personal solution. In this proposal no personal solution matters at all, it is more important whether someone is conditioned, whether they are a moral character and whether they are impartial. All that I was saying earlier, I also mentioned Mr. Marsican, that's more for a reason because at the time the president of Yugoslavia was Vojislav Kostunica. During that time period, over 1,300 Shipars were released from prison. Fjora Brovina was released from prison right at the time when the Martian was president of the Assembly and Vojislav Kostunica was president of the state, so it is no wonder that you are voting for these laws, because from the same bed you have annulled and you act the same, and the difference is only depending on whether you are in position or in opposition. The interesting thing is that none of the presidents, or representatives of the government, are present, as well as Mr. Dragore Hiber, the chairman of the committee proposed by the public prosecutor. Obviously everything the Democratic Party wants to do, it's just doing it over an outstretched and long arm, and that's the GSS. If Hiber is behind this proposal, it's logical to say why they chose him. Yesterday I watched and listened to the trial of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague, and indeed the protected witness who was also a modified voice reminded us of the twilight zone; such a voice, such tone, intonation, and someone who is honest and honest, I see no reason why he would be afraid to show his identity, but let him appear as a witness and testify. I fear there will be a lot of politically mounted processes in Serbia, that among the more than 2,000 people to be tried, many will be political opponents of the DOS and will therefore be before that court. Only people who haven't been to the battlefields in ten years can smile and be happy to observe when tried for war crimes. All those who were on those battlefields experienced that mostly DOS representatives when they returned from the battlefield, they said -- oh, oh, how you lost Kosovo and Metohija or some other area, because they sat here the whole time. But if many of them are in strong political positions right now, it is no wonder that the military deadlines are shortened, which should now be civilian deadlines, because under this authority rarely anyone would respond to defend the country, to do what Serbians have been doing all along these ten years. I fear that many people in Serbia will be tried for several years or will not be tried for several years at all, as Mr Krajisnik has not started the trial in The Hague for three years. That is why, in any case, we believe that this personal solution you have given and it does not matter, it is important that the GSS and DOS stand behind such proposals and that perhaps what you say is that Mr Vukcevic is used in German, and the history of Serbs has shown that many who use German language, especially that language when used against Serbs, many Serbs, unfortunately, have been killed, and most of them were innocent.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33153	The word is given by MP Dragan Ljubojevic and is the last registered speaker in the debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SRS has objected and acclared as to why it is against the adoption of the Law on Special Court of War Crimes, which is why we are in principle against the election of war crimes prosecutors. As for the specific proposal for the post of war crimes prosecutor, a certain Vladimir Vukcevic, I didn't think I was talking about him as a person. However, it calls for this detail that counterpart Milovan Radovanovic made, and is related to the tragedy that took place eight years ago in "Grmec", where 11 people lost their lives. After the interventions, the pressure from the families of the victims to press charges, i.e. to initiate criminal proceedings against the responsible persons in "Gremec", was that Vladimir Vukcevic had been pressured from the top of the government to stop the work, i.e. the procedure, or not to initiate criminal proceedings against the responsible persons. It was obviously the best and most significant qualification for him, to be proposed to the war crimes prosecutor and likely to be elected to the post. In the newspaper "Balkan" since 11 July, another important argument for power to elect him as prosecutor for war crimes, and for us, Serbian Radicals, against such a proposal to vote, is that the president of the Yugoslav Committee of Lawyers, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco agrees and agrees with this proposal, and that is enough for us to reject this proposal. As far as the court and the work that will be done by the war crimes prosecutor is concerned, it will be a dirty job, because as the trials and proceedings in The Hague go away, it is more than clear that The Hague tribunal has no money, that it will not be able to complete all trials by the deadline set, and it is more than clear that it is involved in all this as a chicken in the house. The first to rock and rock The Hague tribunal is former SRJ and Republika Srpska President Slobodan Milosevic, and are now aware that the arrival of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal has absolutely no chance of having any form or legal norm and that because of the international legal, first and foremost, these processes in front of The Hague tribunal are personal to something serious. As a result, they gave an order to the current government in Belgrade, Serbia, to form a war crimes court, to elect a war crimes prosecutor, and to do most of the dirty work here in Serbia for the UN tribunal, to carry out investigations and to bring almost to an end some processes, and to serve it and to hand it over to The Hague tribunal, so that they would, within an express time, bring some people who were interested in them to trial. Is this and this war crimes prosecutor going to prosecute anyone who's in the premises of the former SFRY, and for which this court has jurisdiction, committed war crimes? I'm sure he won't, because his biography and his qualifications say so. Here, in this country, one of the war criminals, Javier Solana, was sentenced by a judicial verdict, and while that judicial verdict was in force, he was walking around this country unhindered, and no one had arrested him, took him to serve his due sentence, but rather, with the highest possible honors, he welcomed him here to end that sentence. It says what the relationship of this government, this court and this prosecutor to war criminals will be like. We do not speak and say that there was no crime by members of our people. We have regular courts, we have criminal law, where penalties and sanctions are provided for all crimes, including war crimes, crimes against humanity. All those who committed in this period behind us some war crimes could and had to comply with regular legislation, that is, in the ordinary procedure. We also have witnesses that a few years ago there were several cases where members of the Yugoslav Army were responsible for war crimes and were convicted, and complained and the verdicts were annulled. There was a retrial, which means it wasn't disputed and it wasn't the questionable will of the judicial authorities to judge those who committed war crimes. The question arises, if a special war crimes court has already been established, if we choose a war crimes prosecutor, why can't we form courts and choose prosecutors for cigarette smuggling, arms smuggling, drug trafficking, trafficking of white slaves, illegal and illegal kidnapping of social and state property, because it may be problems that represent, or criminal acts that represent perhaps a bigger problem for this country than war crimes. Unfortunately, you don't care about this country, you don't care about this people, all you care about is being at the will of the West and doing everything that the West, in this case Carla del Ponte, or the Hague Tribunal stands out as a request.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33155	The word came out, as the lists were no longer registered for the word, MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, and then MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33156	Since it is quite clear that this proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia has secured the majority, there would be little attention to hearing any more details before you use your cards. I would just ask, when voting, that you have in mind that the MPs of the SRS are going to leave the room, and I'm telling you in advance, avoid the situation of showing up in the document that we haven't voted. In this address, I would like to point out, the SRS is certain that the proposed candidate does not meet the requirements prescribed by law. In addition to the conditions of impartiality and high moral reputation, knowledge of international humanitarian rights and human rights is also required as a condition. We believe that this other condition does not meet, because by the very fact that he has agreed to be a DOS candidate for this function, he has shown that human rights are a weak side in the area of rights that he would have to know. Since 1991, someone has installed a crisis that has created a social conflict that cannot be solved by political means, but by arming, encouraging and encouraging secession, conflicts have been caused in order to further dispersal the country. This special prosecutor would have to know that, because in those acts and acts that came from abroad, there are acts of rude violation of human rights. Probably this special prosecutor would have to know about the Martinovic case, too, he would have to know about the number of people who were without any citizenship in this country, deliberately populated to change both the demographic and national structures of the population. Probably this prosecutor would have to know, and if he didn't know, you'd let him know, for 10 years in this space, it was a problem to stop and break terrorism and to resist aggression. Both terrorism and aggression are international evils. When we talk about resisting aggression, it is likely that you should remember in 1990 and accept as a notorious fact that in some places your members, as mayors, even though they did not serve the army, put on uniforms and thus, Kobajagi, defied aggression. You should probably know that no member of the police should come to this prosecutor's office after the prosecutor has not held a conversation with Sreten Lukic, a man who has commanded all units in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. You must probably have many more details in mind when you vote and about this prosecutor, because at the time of the crisis of authority and identity, the easiest thing to do is because of a handful of dollars to make this hoax and be almost the only country on the globe that has, in the context of its judicial system, a special court for war crimes, because, for God's sake, this people are as if it were a criminal and genetic criminal people, where to be tried, to give judgments, to send people to prison, thus providing the necessary means for monetary stability and to continue destroying our economy, and also to save all those who have thousands of tons of destructive material thrown at this country and killed people. Well, just remember, little Milice Rakic, who died in her house. When you vote, think about the Milice Rakic family, will you vote this way to save whoever bombed? Our pilot was taken, kidnapped, transferred to Italy and convicted, you had no intention of defending him. Just remember, since 2001, no Shipatarian terrorists are terrorists, but extremists. Remember, only Biljana Kovacevic-Vučevića-Vučo gave praise to this candidate. Remember the report by the Commission of the Federal Assembly, which visited all prisons, held talks with terrorists weeks before the amnesty and pardons and a token of their gratitude to the Dosmanian authorities, they already said - all of them paid through Natasha Kandic and some of the people who allowed the law to be passed. Who do we need to protect in this National Assembly? Why do we have a special court of war crimes? Just now, a political visionary here said there is no third solution. There's a third solution. The third solution is in our judicial system, in existing courts that have already done something, but the third solution you didn't want to draw to the end, but in 2001 you hired, at that time Deputy Republic Public Prosecutor Jovan Prijic, to wipe out the Prokupje District Attorney, who opposed the court procedures for war crimes. It is the credit of Jovan Prijic for which he is a special prosecutor against organised crime, and this year this candidate was elected deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor and was probably conditioned by the fact that he had to agree to do this job. This job will be neither honorable nor honest. This will be a job against the dignity of this people. No one defends those individuals who have committed some punitive acts, but our problem is not to haunt those faces. Our problem here is that the UN tribunal's forced department, in principle the personal responsibility of allegedly natural persons, with a large number, in a large amount of mounted procedures, will impose collective guilt on this people, and the West has at all times to say - you have found it yourself, you have thrown out your own ashes for about $150 million or who knows which church. You're dropping the lawsuit, you don't want to compensate for the damage done to this people. You're not authorized to do that. You are not authorized because of those who died. Take care, your men also wore uniforms and your men defied aggression. By choosing this candidate, you say that the minor damage was the bombing of those rights that were annulled by the citizens because of the previous regime. You can politically think about it in a political struggle here, but you can't send that message abroad, because you're in power, so you see for yourself what problems you're facing and what degree of human rights is. Those who play you some competition, they only court the West to replace you. And you, Democrats, having taken responsibility for the rest of the DOS, take care, approach, the censorship is very large for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33157	The word is issued by MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33158	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have seen, no one has taken part in the debate on the proposal of a special prosecutor for war crimes, for reasons that I will explain very briefly. As is known, the Soviets did not support the War Crimes Act, and for this reason we will not vote for the proposed candidate, because we will not dispute whether he is professional, moral, or not, but we will not vote against the proposed candidate, because we believe, since we did not vote for the law, we will not engage in at all whether he should be proposed and elected special prosecutor for war crimes. But we're asking one question now, we're asking it and we're asking it in the future -- do we in Serbia always have to step forward, do we always have to rush to ask people, choose people, first pass war crimes laws, and then special prosecutors who will prosecute people who allegedly committed war crimes? I ask you, and ask yourself, has a war crimes prosecutor been appointed in Croatia, has a special prosecutor been appointed in the Muslim part of BiH to determine war crimes against the Serb people and other peoples in BiH? Once again, we wonder if we must always take a step ahead? Who has driven this number of Serbs from their centuries-old hearths, from Croatia, from BiH, Kosovo and Metohija? Are they responding because they committed war crimes or not? Should only Serbs always answer for something they didn't do besides what they did? Do we want him to come back to us in 1944 and 1945, when many war criminals, who destroyed Serbian animals in the territory of Croatia, BiH and the works of Serbia in Vojvodina, were rehabilitated by the communist authorities and lived very well in the postwar Brozo Yugoslavia? Do we want to show the world something that we never wanted to admit in the history of the Serbian people because we never did? Do we want to acknowledge in this way that there are genocide among Serbs, that there are people who commit war crimes or there are people, patriots, who have defended Serbia, Serbian hearths, Serbian families, Serbian tradition? Let's already become proud and consistent once, remember all the many Serbs who have defended Serbs everywhere, or we want to give subjectively to all that and to fulfill all that the West expects of us. Ladies and gentlemen, today in The Hague, you know what the Serbian Unity Party thinks of it, but today there are 80% of Serbs, Serb leaders and so on in The Hague. We ask ourselves again, and for the first time, we will ask ourselves, who killed the Serb people in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope we Serbs didn't kill them and commit war crimes against our own people there. Who killed Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who drove the Serbs out of Kosovo and Metohija, who killed them, who burned their houses? I guess it wasn't the Serbs. Now we have to judge them for allegedly committed war crimes. Once again, let's be worthy of our famous ancestors, let's be Serbs in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33159	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The applicant's representative is not present. I am concluding a single search on the motion to elect a war crimes prosecutor and we will approach the vote immediately. Before I put it to the vote, we'll determine if we have a decision-making quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I am putting the motion to elect Vladimir Vukcevic for the war crimes prosecutor. For 129 against 20, seven of the 156 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to elect Vladimir Vukcevic as war crimes prosecutor. Allow me to congratulate Vladimir Vukčević on your and on my behalf and wish him success in his work. Since we have completed our discussion and decision-making on this agenda, I am concluding the session of the 13th extraordinary National Assembly meeting in 2003. The session is closed at 12.55 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33160	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL BELISH 14th Extraordinary Meeting on 22 July 2003 (The session began at 12.55 p.m. The chairman of Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Aleksandar Vatovic, Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubisa Maravic, Kasa Jožef, Bojan Kostreš, Zoran Boskovic, Srdjan Sikimić, Milos Radivojčević and Neda Arnerić. In accordance with Articles 162, 165 and 80(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(2). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to elect a governor and members of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council within the deadlines set by the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, and given that this choice should be made before the summer break in the work of the National Assembly, i.e. that the law provides for the governor to be elected no later than two months from the entry into force of the law. In addition to the meeting of the 14th extraordinary session, which was convened at the request of a group of 96 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been sent to you for the maintenance of the 14th extraordinary session with the established agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, the next Dn e n i d 1 was established. Proposals for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, submitted by the Committee for Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION OF THE GOVERNER OF THE National Bank OF SERBIA AND THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBER STATES OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Siniša Mitrović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33162	Dear Mrs Micic, honourable fellow Members, since this is the last day of our work today and on the basis of Article 81, I propose that the 14th extraordinary session lasts not until 1800 hours, but until the debate is over and we end this extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33163	I would like to put on a proposal by Parliamentarian Sinisha Mitrovica that the debate should last longer, if necessary, until the end of this agenda. For 103, against 51, they did not vote 24, out of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal from the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. You have received proposals for decisions made by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the opinion was singled out by MPs Slavoljub Matic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. I remind you that according to Article 156(3), the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours. I would like the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present the lists with the declared list for this item on the agenda. Consent to Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the motions for decisions, noting that the National Assembly will specifically decide on the choice of governors of the National Bank of Serbia, and in particular on the election of president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Does the proposing representative, Mr Nenad Bogdanovic, chairman of the Finance Committee, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33164	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, today as chairman of the Finance Committee, I have the honour to propose candidates for the governor and the National Bank Council, with the expectation that these proposals will be accepted, given that they are extremely high-quality candidates. First I'd like to try to explain, and I think I'll have some very good arguments, a proposal for governor. You know that the Council, at its session yesterday, highlighted Mrs. Korri Udovici's candidacy. Of course, in addition to what you had the opportunity to read in Mrs. Kori Udovici's biography, from which it is quite clear that it is a person competent for such a job, given her great international experience and work at the IMF, where she was very concerned with a similar problem, such as the problem to be dealt with in the National Bank, given that she was a special adviser to the real sector of the Ministry of Finance and Economy of the Republic of Serbia from September 2001 to June 2002, where she was responsible for monitoring the work of public enterprises, drawing up a draft and implementing a regulation on the level of earnings in public enterprises, and since December 2000 she has become a member of the restructuring of public enterprises of the Government of Serbia and establishing projects for the same thing. It is also very important what kind of person it is, in addition to working experience. I think Mrs. Cory is a widowed person who has an extremely strong "I." When she was convinced of the ideas she was representing and was convinced that she was fighting for the right thing, you had the opportunity to see in very complicated situations since she was a minister, that she was easy not to step down. Of course, sometimes those things she stood for may not be popular in public, they may not be popular in those who have other visions, how to solve those things that she stood for. However, she demonstrated that when she was convinced of what was the right thing to do, no one could influence and I think that as far as the governor is concerned, it is an extremely important quality. You had a chance to hear yesterday in her presentation the way she pictured her work. It is certain that in the realisation of the basic work that the governor has, which is the stability of the price, it is not possible to achieve and realise if, besides the governor and the National Bank, others who care about this problem do not work, and here I am thinking first of all about the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there are various ideas and various comments on how and how Mrs. Widowsky will be able to do this job, given that she was previously a member of the government. However, every man who does his job, every smart and capable man, acts responsibly at the job if he has character, if he has the ability and strength to resist just as powerful and powerful people who can influence many things. I think that Mrs. Korri Udovici, in that sense, will have no problem, I think she will very firmly implement a policy expected by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and will do exactly what she said, not to engage in conflicts with the government at all costs, but to try to convince the government that its position is correct and, of course, if it fails, that it will consistently implement what the citizens of Serbia expect of it. That is why I expect you all in the National Assembly to support the proposal that Mrs. Kori Udovicki be the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, especially since I have not heard so far, except political comments and doubt that she can do so as a former member of the Government, no other argument against her being a proposal for governor. I'd like to take the opportunity to explain right now why we decided on the proposals for five members of the National Bank Council. It's about a council that, when this assembly chooses it, if it chooses it, we can be proud. It is a highly professional, qualified people, who have a variety of life, scientific and professional experiences, but all thus achieved that they can carry out the work that awaits them with maximum cooperation with the governor of the National Bank. For the chairman of the National Bank Council, with a five-year mandate, we propose Professor Dr. Pavel Petrovic, who is a man of great experience. In his biography, it is particularly important, in addition to working at the Faculty of Economics and in many serious research in areas that he will deal with within the National Bank, his long-standing experience and co-operation with Mr Avramovic. I think that all those who know the work of one of the governors of the National Bank of Serbia, and this is Mr Avramovic, if they read the biography of Mr Petrovic and realize that he was practically the first associate of Mr Avramovic, they will realize that they have certainly created everything they have created together and that it is a guarantee that what they once did will continue in the National Bank and in the next period. The next candidate with a four-year term is Prof. Dr. Bosko Zivkovic. His biography you have, there you can see that it's a man of experience, of knowledge, of expertise and of all the best we can say for him. So we have no reason, no argument to challenge his candidacy. In the third candidate, today I'm going to suggest, in relation to the material you've received today, one change. In fact, we had a Finance Committee during the afternoon. There's been a break-in. According to the law, a member of the Council cannot be a retired man. We, unfortunately, had no information for Mr Stojan Stamenkovic that he had already retired and because, unlike those who claim to be legalists, we decided to make an amendment to this proposal and to propose to Mr Dejan Šoškovic, professor at the Faculty of Economics, instead of Mr Stojan Stamenkovic. He was born in Beogrd in 1967, graduated, mastered and PhD in the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, the University of Belgrade award for the best graduate student of the 1989 generation. I know it's all bothering you, the ones that are against this kind of good solution, but what do we do? Anyway, from a biography you'll get, if you didn't get it, unfortunately I never understand these services in the congregation, which take an hour to copy one paper and share it with the MPs. Take my apologies, what do we do? It's one thing that's in transition. If God forbid, we'll change one day, so they can copy 150-160 copies of the candidate's biography in a shorter time. In any case, when you receive a detailed biography of a young expert, I think you'll be thrilled to know what kind of proposal it is. The fourth proposal, with a two-year term, is Mr. Professor Zoran Popov. Of course, I wouldn't read you this very extensive biography, because I would give you a chance to get more detailed information about everything in the paper that you have. It is important that during his work at the Institute of Economic Sciences and the Economic Institute he participated in the work and coordinated the work on over 80 major projects, mainly from the following areas: the economic system, economic policy, economic development, privatisation and restructuring. During his scientific work he published more than 300 articles in domestic and foreign journals, as well as 26 books, as an author, co-author or editor, and as significant, I quote: "Macro-economic planning", University of Novi Sad; "Yugoslavija in the world economy", "Informor" - Zagreb; "Stabilisation and Development" - "Yugoslavski pregled" - Belgrade; "Economic Development of Yugoslavia by 2000", "Productivity and Distribution", "Stabilisation and Development Systems of Demographic Accounting", etc. I know that some of you what I said is so impressive that they're confused. And I know you have a problem understanding what I'm reading at all, but it won't help you not to accept such a good candidacy. [[Laughter]] The fifth candidate is Professor Milorad Ivanisevic, a term of office for one year, who was born in the municipality of Otocac in 1947, has references in areas that are important for the work that he will do. Of course, his research interest moves in the areas of finance, businesses, investment and financing. Therefore, I would like to conclude my presentation by proposing, with great pleasure, a candidate for governor and all five members of the National Bank Council. I think that, in the vast majority, you will vote for these candidates, because the National Bank of Serbia will receive leadership as both Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia deserve. [[Applause to all MPs in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33165	I would like to thank the representative of the promoter, Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic's MP. Do the debate wish to be taken by the MPs who issued an opinion at the session of the Finance Committee? The word has been made by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33166	I would first of all like to say a few words in defense of the assembly services, which are not at all to blame for not getting a biography of Mr. Shoskoć, because the proposal for him was only about 60 minutes ago at the Committee session. Just because of the Committee's hastyness and the proposing, Mr Stojan Stamenkovic passed the proposal yesterday, and in the meantime, he had to be removed urgently today, so he was proposed and adopted as a proposal from Mr Soskic instead. So the people of the congregation did not have time to deliver all these material to the MPs. So it's not the people of the congregation's service that are to blame. They're doing their job professionally, but the promoters, not to say, fly, and then they're having trouble. As for the topic of today's debate, the Finance Committee has never been in the mouth of various media and the consequences of public words more than the last days, thanks to the article. 16 and 23. The law on the National Bank of Serbia, which defined the competent assembly committee as the proposer of the governors and the National Bank of Serbia Council. We have criticised it even in the procedure of adopting, or introducing, the Law. We said it was demagogy, regardless of the minister's opinion, who said bidding is demagogy, if we criticise what the Finance Committee should suggest. We know that the Finance Committee is just a farce and only a front for the promoters. How legitimate and valid the proposals that are now in front of you are, I would only give one piece of information. All proposals were adopted with a six-to-four ratio at the Finance Committee session. He decided one vote, and that MP who, according to the Constitutional Court's decision of 27 May this year should not be an MP at all. However, he changed his uniform a month ago and moved to the DS to preserve his mandate. It is now a good investment, because he cast his vote and decided on proposals for both the governor and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. It's a colleague from the SS Party who's moved to the DS. I don't have to mention his name. That's the troubled majority we talked about when we criticised the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. But the troubled majority and such MPs will decide today, not only on candidates, but on the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as on members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. The other thing that made me single out my opinion at the Finance Committee session is Article 28 of the conflict of interest. In Article 28, paragraph 1, it is said that MPs cannot be members of the government and officials at the time of the elections. Mrs. Cory Udovici is the minister. She worked at the finance ministry before she became a minister in the government. It's a direct conflict of interest. She was said to resign immediately. At the moment of the election, it is a violation of the law, and behind it will be the minister of resignation. The resignation minister is still the minister, replaced by someone who is not the elected minister. So we'll have the governor of the minister until the September session. It's a direct conflict of interest. Mrs. Udovicki, who, by her biography, undisputed, has some professional qualities...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33167	Yeah, but weak. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33168	That's what you said, not me, that your qualities are weak. Maybe that's how you appreciate it. I even commended her, at the board meeting, when I was talking about her. However, in his performance, which is why I asked her how she imagines co-operation with the government, as envisioned by the law, told MEPs of the Finance Committee about Mr Dinkic all praises on monetary policy-making, but that he blocked Serbia's reform potential. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33169	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33170	How can a DOS writer and a reform program stop the reform process? (More MPs from the bench say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33171	People's MP, I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33172	We were also talking about the course of the dinar, so Mrs. Udovici skillfully avoided it, so she said that the course of the dinar depends on the stability of the foreign reserve and that it is likely not to be changed. But you remember the day before yesterday, the prime minister said that by the end of the year, the euro course would likely be 70.00 dinars. If Mrs. Udovici opposes the Prime Minister... and you know how the prime minister "slaps on the toes" those "natural needs pass by the nose". It's a quote, though, in a slightly relaxed form, rather than said, because I didn't mention the right expression for the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33173	People's MP, I've already warned you twice about time-limiting. You have five minutes to speak at the assembly session, as an MP who gave his opinion at the Committee's session, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33174	Well, I thank you, too. I have much more to say, but I will finish, New Serbia will not vote for any proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33175	The word is given by MP Slavoljub Matic, who also issued an opinion at the Committee's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33176	Madam President, fellow MPs, the DSS will not vote for the proposal, and whoever wants to hear it, Mr. Jocic, no problem, will not vote for Mrs. Kori Udovicki. First of all, let's remind ourselves, we questioned the first jurisdiction of this Finance Committee, because the very composition of the Finance Committee does not guarantee that it bears the imaged structure of this Parliament. Namely, two members of the DSS Finance Committee, Mr Salesovic and Mr Ilic, are no longer members of the Finance Committee. I will remind you that some other parliamentary groups no longer have their own representative in the Finance Committee, which means that the proposer himself has been questioned. Why is that? Because this is how this Parliament works and, of course, I won't repeat it anymore, I think you know better than we do, I think of you, Madam President of this Parliament, this Serbia needs elections in order to have at least such institutions as Parliament, the Finance Committee, so that there can be a proper court of law when it comes to such decisions or proposals, a valuable court of Serbian voters. As far as the solution is concerned, we offered it as we discussed the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the solution would be for the President of the Republic to be that proposing, because we believe that such a solution is firstly appropriate for parliamentary practice, not only for individual countries, but also for the world, and then for this solution does not lead to confusion and in particular does not bring about these riots that exist in our parliamentary life. But if we ignore it and come up with this proposal from the board, which is not properly established or eventually lost what it should have, and from that, it is a matter of question. Furthermore, the change of relations in the Republic's parliament will make it possible to change the governor daily, i.e. by any change in government in Serbia, and this does not contribute to monetary stability. No one has challenged the expertise of the Committee on Finance itself, but it is a member of the Republic government, and it is the minister, I think it challenges independence, and this independence of the National Bank of Serbia has been questioned by us because it is in such a way that the Council and other bodies of the National Bank of Serbia are being established. So these were the reasons why, as a representative of the DSS, I took the floor. It also seems to us that this single-use governor, he will use only to be a bond between the National Bank of Serbia and the Republic authorities, Serbia is getting closer to the elections, these elections of course run into an electoral body which is dissatisfied with the policies of the Republic government and is needed in any case, and perhaps some monetary interventions, to improve the single status of the government in the electoral body. That is why I say, I am issuing an opinion, and we will be restrained on this occasion, and we will certainly welcome as Parliament and as a state the moment when we will certainly fight for the status of the National Bank of Serbia, as an independent independent institution that will rightly manage the monetary policy of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33177	We continue the debate according to applications for the president's word, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, then MP Branislav Ivkovic, MP Petar Petrovic and MP Rajko Baralic, signed up for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33178	But now the reforms will begin when these great experts meet at the Council of Ministers, even as governors, simply a man will not be able to contain them. So well prepared this proposal that even biographies couldn't calculate, not even years of internships, or anything else to make a solid proposal, so as not to change the basics of the session itself. This is where the promoter said that he, unlike others, adheres to the law. If he's following the law, where's Cory Widowsky's resignation here as minister? She's still a minister. This is an illegal appointment again, this decision may fall again in the Constitutional Court without any talk, because we will legally appoint someone, but it has already become a manners in this assembly that members of the National Bank's Council of Broadcasting Agency are legally accepted, and now the governor of the National Bank, and tomorrow we have an illegal perpetrator of the duties of the President of the State, against the constitution, more precisely, it is even worse injuries, so the more time is moving away, the more illegal it is. Let's go back to this subject, namely, what about the resolution of the previous governor, are we going to solve him, are we going to discuss his work report, did he run out of mandate and what position he's in? We'll be in a position to publish in the Official List the appointment of a new governor, and this old man will stay in the air, because in the motion for a decision, we have no confirmation anywhere else that the appointment of a new governor ends the duty of the old governor of the National Bank of Serbia, so this should be regulated by a resolution. We should have gotten a report on the work or cross-section of the National Bank of Serbia before it was resolved, today when we should appoint a new governor. As far as we know, we have heard in public that 250 reports have arrived in this assembly, but are not distributed to the MPs, it is likely that the president of the Assembly or the secretary will explain why these reports are not distributed. If the names have already arrived on each of us and no one has the right to deny anyone to receive the mail sent to him. It is an impressive international experience and, in general, a professional biography of Kori Udovici, it is completely undeniable that its international experience has been gained in Zimbabwe and other African countries and the opportunity to confirm in practice everything, a doctorate, has been acquired at Yale, and Yale is certainly something that will use her work as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. A fairly built economic system in Africa will contribute to the construction of an economic system in Serbia, so we expect that some of the experiences gained in Africa will be transferred here, and some economic and monetary policy that has been conducted in the reform countries of Zimbabwe and all of this to be applied here. Apparently, African experiences will make a significant contribution to reforms in Serbia, and all of these reforms in Serbia need to encourage these African experiences and these trends that are now in Africa, as they record a significant degree of development. Since we have not been helped by various other European and also by Japan's experiences, we now expect that African experiences will be a significant contribution to reforms in Serbia and that should be taken into account and used by Ethiopia and some other countries for reforms in Serbia. These experiences are probably close to those experiences, there's North Korea and some other countries, but it's a conglomerate that's being made here and I think it's going to be very good. Here the story of reforms and brakes gets a special plot, as it is said. We have a positive and negative role here, so the most loyal reformers, and the dramatic twist was phenomenal and Spielberg, if there is a chance, will make a film, that these reformers suddenly became brakes and that the number of reformers in Serbia is drastically decreasing. A small number of elected reformists in Serbia remain to lead us, as in Domanovic's stories, in light of Serbia's future, and these leaders and reformists will bring us far away. What is important in mind, when we talk about the economic policy of the Serbian government, should know that the budget for this year is irrationally planned. Mrs. Cory Udovici didn't know whether she was for the social or development budget, since they had mostly social budgets in Africa. So there's no experience with the development budget. Since the development budget has Serbia today, they are reforming and inhaling momentum, I do not know how Kori Udovicki will cope, since the Republic of Serbia's budget is filled with 37% of what is planned. For the first six months, 37% of the results have been recorded, the Republic of Serbia's budget has a deficit. When we spoke to Minister Djelic that there should be a budget reduction, because it is so irrational to expect, and our economy, given that it is in a reform swing and that everything is concentrated in development, not in taxes, cannot be allocated so much to the budget and will not be able to withstand such a burden, Mr Djelic said - it can, of course. We are now in a situation where one of the reasons for the replacement of the NBJ reform governor was that he refused to lend credit to the Serbian government to pay the child's allowance. It's not a credit problem, the problem is that the budget is irrationally planned. The problem is that it is charged with 37% and that the budget has a deficit, the NB governors will be expected to give a significant boost to the reforms of the Serbian government, i.e. budgetary and economic policy by making it the one who will borrow in the short and long term and thus assist in the realisation of the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the settlement of the commitments that the Republic of Serbia has. It is said here that Kori Udovicki, in view of praise and everything else, can be expected to withstand pressures to print money, for large loans from the National Bank of Serbia to fill the budget deficit. We can justifiably suspect that after this, there will be a pretty legitimate fear for both of us here and the citizens that there will be money printing, or inflation, given that the budget is in short supply. In order to cover ourselves, since we are entering the election year, in order to settle social benefits, someone will reach out to major loans from the National Bank of Serbia or seek to print money and thus start that inflation circle, which is dangerous. I'm afraid Minister Cory Udovici, of course candidate for governor, is not strong enough, although we have heard a series of praises that she is her strength and confidence in the correctness of what she does simply so powerfully that she rejects all the pressures she has. I'm afraid that's not the case. If she succumbed to the miner strike, and where she gave up her original intention, that's how she'll probably be when she's pushed from the government. That way, we'll get a print of money. I understand this may be of multiple use to the government. One, this is how the government gets rid of a bad minister, where the government is satisfied, and she's going to let Cory Udovicki go, because it's an elegant way to get rid of the bad minister. The second benefit for the government is that the bad minister will work poorly at the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. will be subject to manipulation and will be controlled by the Serbian government. In this way, you get double benefits for the government, gets rid of the bad minister, gets a puppet as governor of the National Bank of Serbia and Serbia gets a swing of reforms. That's a little weird, we haven't heard that argument, how someone who's an expert in energy can be an expert in monetary policy. Not now, Zarko Korać, he's an expert and there's more experts on how it can be. There are few people like Žarko Korać, who can be multiexperts for all, multidisciplinary persons. I didn't get the impression that Mrs. Corey was Widowly multidisciplinary like Žarko Korać.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33179	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33180	No, I'm done. For the next 10 minutes, I'll use it when I get a little more insight into some candidates and when I see it, when I'm sure of their reform capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33181	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist People's Party's parliamentary group, and then by MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we should all in this room remind ourselves of the situation in which the economy in this country is located and what is the basic motive and reason, I suppose, for the legislators of the adopted Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the proposing new people in the leadership of the National Bank of Serbia. The Socialist People's Party nearly a year ago, thanks to people who understand the state of the monetary area and the economic system in good time, has begun to point to the ruling coalition, and the ruling coalition is all those who, with 176 MPs, entered the hall in 2001 in January, that the conduct of monetary policy far outweighs the basic, basic functions of monetary policy, which is to function as the country's economic development. The choice of governors of the National Bank of Serbia and the Council is only a consequence, and according to our assessment, very late. The government of the Republic of Serbia has very late proposed a Law on the National Bank of Serbia and has therefore taken responsibility for everything that has happened in the monetary sphere, at least in the last three months. The ruling coalition, which, by coming to power most in 2001 in January, took power both in this parliament and in the state, bears direct responsibility for allowing people from the monetary sphere to lead monetary policy in a way that led and resulted in a terrible stagnation in the economy and domination of the import lobby in this country. We have therefore submitted 27 amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and we are very caught up in the fact that an amendment that gave the right, possibility and obligation to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia to prescribe with its leadership the conditions of business of foreign banks on this soil, as well as their obligation to make a significant part of the funds and savings stakes of our citizens have to reinvest in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. This is exactly what I'm saying because of the fact that it's true that in Mrs. Kori Udovici's biography we have far more impressive results than the very poor biography of his mother's son, Mr. Dinkic. That's what it can say that Mrs. Korri Udovici can carry that part of the burden, but the people's socialists, since they're the opposition, will not vote for the governor's candidate or the governor's council, because they will not bear responsibility for those people proposed by the ruling coalition. However, we must point out that the newly elected governor and composition of the Governor's Council have very serious tasks in terms of monetary policy. It cannot be the goal of monetary policy of price stability, stability is the aim of the economic policy of the Government of Serbia, and monetary policy must guarantee currency stability and be in line with the economic policy run by the current Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is the problem inherited from previous leadership, and I hope it will not be in power at the National Bank of Serbia. We all, as MPs, lead and have responsibilities to the citizens of Serbia that we represent and to clear up the things that were in the National Bank of Serbia and that should not be repeated in the functioning of the country's monetary authority. Because of this, because of the fact that we are engulfed with screws both on the one hand and on the other hand, that Mr Dinkic and Labus are extracting some data in a magical way, that on the other hand the current government is extracting some data, the SNS has proposed to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I deeply believe that it will be at the next session of our session, the formation of a survey board that will have the task of reviewing what has really happened in the NBS, since it was won in a specific way by Governor Dinkic. This people must know if they had to go into the liquidation of banks that, by the way, were very recognizable by the placements of their assets in the economy. This people must know whether, for example, Beobanka is liquidated with rights or without rights, is it true that Beobanka today has far more activity than a passport. The people must know what was going on and what was the foreplay of forming the National Savings Bank. The Committee of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly must respond to the citizens of Serbia, the MPs in this room and their representatives, what really happened when there was the interest of individual banks abroad to invest in banks in our premises, and why did certain banks magically run out of medium or small business authority for a week? How many NBS executives have taken the right to conduct the survival of certain banks or to invest in certain banks? Finally, a Serbian citizen must know whether the mandatory deposits, in terms of 50% of the foreign exchange funds by commercial banks, came out of this country or not? If they came out of this country, to know where they were going, how much interest was received and whether these funds were achieved by interest, e.g. At the London Standard Bank, entering mass as NBS revenue or not? Finally, Serbian citizens need to know why the National Savings Bank was formed as such and who are the owners of the National Savings Bank? Finally, Serbian citizens must also know the answer as much as and to what extent there was malfeasance in the work of the NBS. I would like to tell the MPs that the SNS expects majority support in this parliament to form a polling committee and examine the work of the NBS, not only because of those who have worked arrogantly, unknowingly and directly against the interests of Serbian citizens, but also because of those who will be elected here today, that they know that if such parts of the policy are conducted in their time, such a polling committee will do its job. Surely the most interesting issue that is being raised is the definition of a decision-making system for participation in the European Bank's Action Fund for Reconstruction and Development. Since there is no word in the official list of the former federal state about the SRJ government's decision then, it is clear that someone has decided somewhere on behalf of all of us that 92.5m euros received from donations are to be paid into the European Bank's Action Fund for Reconstruction and Development. If we were to enter that European bank, that's a fact and there's no discussion there. As foreign banks welcome to the country's soil, participation in the Action Fund is also welcome. But why did it amount to 92.5 million if Croatia gave 21, if Bosnia gave 15, if Macedonia gave 9.5? Why did we have to give 91.5 million euros? Who decided on our behalf, whose signatures are behind that decision, who put the seal and where? Who decided who would be a member of the board of governors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development? Who sent this letter, and why did the board member not have his deputy? You know, this country is a mixer of experts. Since 2000, we seem to have three experts in each corner. However, when a little scratch beneath the surface, it is understood that these experts, e.g. They've never built anything in the area of construction, they've never done anything in banking. They failed to meet their formal and essential obligations. You know, behind us is the age of an evil human policy that has to disappear. I'm glad Mrs. Cory Udovici has experience in both the IMF and many international banking systems, at least that's what you can see. We won't vote for her, but it's like heaven and earth the difference between her and her predecessor. Let this be the way to a much better staff policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33183	The word is issued by MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33184	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union will not support Mrs. Korri Udovicki's proposal as governor of the NBS. Before I explain the position of the Soviet Parliament group why it will not support Mrs. Udovicki as governor of the NBS, I must take a few sentences to refer to the procedural failures when proposing this candidate for future governor of the NBS. Namely, it has already been said here, but it is not burning again, that at this time Mrs. Udovici is the Minister of Energy and Mining in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is it afraid that the promoters and members of the DOS majority will not choose her today as governor of the NBS, when she did not resign to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today? The question arises whether Mrs. Udovicki will be able to be the governor of the NBS and the Minister of Energy and Mining in the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the same time. Formally-legal, I think it's incompatible. However, it seems that in this country, as respected Minister Milovanovic said a year, a year and a half ago, when the Labour Law was adopted -- everything is possible in this country, so why it is not possible for the same person to be in two very important functions in the state of Serbia. On the other hand, it has been said here that on the Finance Committee, as Mrs. Widowski's proposal for governor of the NBS, the vote ratio was six to four. If it is known that this sixth voice, which he has overcome, is the voice of a man whose moral qualities should be thought of by his children and his grandkids, when he gave his vote to the governor, and it is known from whose electoral lists he was elected as an MP and should respond, when he stands in front of the mirror, first to himself and his morals -- why he moved to another parliamentary group, and by yesterday from this pay phone, he has a stenogram, he has a video, he has very fiercely criticised this current DOS government, their economic reform, their monetary policy, etc. (President: Please return to the agenda topic and do not insult the MPs. ) I am talking about the proposal of the Finance Committee and what kind of vote there was. But let me get back to the subject. We in the Soviet Union are not going to regret a single move, not in a single word, Mr Dinkic, because there is one well-known sentence in the people: "The beating has two ends". As he came for the governor of the NBJ, namely the National Bank of Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. he stayed as the governor of the NBS, in a similar way and left the post. So, according to the story, I didn't see it, in one way, inappropriate democratic ways of coming into power, helicopters, guns, force or something like that, and leaving in a democratic way, by pressing a red button when it will be resolved, or green when a new governor will be appointed. However, at this point, he's still governor of the NBS and again tomorrow, when he gets up and goes to the National Bank for work, he'll be called governor of the NBS, because we don't solve him today. Once again, a formal legal question for lawyers and a legal theory, to study whether there could be two people in the same place? Governor Dinkic is still governor. We, or you today will decide that Mrs. Korri Udovicki will be governor of the NBS. But what's there is. It's in history to study how it was and why it was. We in the Soviet Union are asking these procedural questions, that the general public be familiar with this and that experts also answer these questions. The question is, why were we in such a hurry to draft the NBS Act, and now with the proposal of a candidate for governor of the NBS? In all stable countries, we strive and claim that we are a stable country, that we are a legal state, the laws of this kind and these importance are passed over a long period of time. Many experts are involved in their work, giving their opinions and suggestions to bring about a final draft law, i.e. a proposal for a text entering the legislative body and when a decision on the adoption or non-compliance of this law is made. The law on the National Bank of Serbia has literally been passed in 30 days from the date of its first proposal, namely the draft text, the adoption of a decision, or a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to the vote in this parliament. Surely it is one of the basic reasons why it hastensibly with the law and the proposal, and I believe by the end of the day that you will do so by selecting the new governor of the National Bank of Serbia, because in any case elections are approaching, and you are all aware, especially you of the authorities, that whoever holds the money should also hold the power. The money is in the National Bank of Serbia, monetary policy, and at the National Bank of Serbia, so that you can keep it under control, you need your governor. Dinkic, by yesterday your favorite and your fellowman, is no longer your favorite and is not your lawyer. Again, I have to bring up the experience of the people, since I'm often in contact with the people, to tell you that when someone has fun for 10 years, and young people have fun, usually such marriages are quick to fire. Usually married when they get married, they don't put together a year or two, and that's practice. Since you've been in love for a long time, G-17+ has separated from the DOS that is now in power, very soon after the adoption of power in 2000, there has been a dispute, a dissension, a simple political opponent should be removed from the political scene of the Republic of Serbia. You're simply doing it in a democratic way today, and I have to admit that you're doing it in a way that you're voting. You have MPs that you brought in one way or another, but there's no connection, life goes on. So Dinkic leaves in a similar way as he came and Mrs Kori Udovici will come. What she did as a minister of energy and mining for this short time of her ministry, except that she caused enormous dissatisfaction with Serbian citizens by constantly raising electricity prices, so that today Serbian citizens who have average incomes in the summer months, when electricity consumption is very low, can hardly pay those bills. What's gonna be a winter, God help them. Strikes were daily by mine employees, in Serbia's energy system and so on. However, the biography says that as an expert in various world monetary organizations, she was in charge of Mozambique and Zimbabwe. It is known in world theory and practice how strong the coins and monetary systems of these two countries are, where she worked as a professional consultant and how much she helped them. These economies of these countries are now on a very high level of development, on the world scale of the development of the economy in the world. That's why we don't stand a chance, no arguments that you can convince us to support Kori Udovicki as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. On the other hand, the question arises whether, besides so many experts from the monetary and financial sphere in the Republic of Serbia, a doctor of science, recognised experts and beyond the borders of this country, you could not find someone else who would be proposed and elected governor of the National Bank of Serbia, but you are already withdrawing a person from the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a Guerner. So he wants the government of the Republic of Serbia to put the bank governor under its control. It is easy to carry out the tasks it has performed as a minister by yesterday and thus putting the monetary and economic policy of the National Bank of Serbia under direct control of the government, and it was full of mouths until yesterday that you wanted the National Bank of Serbia to be a fully independent financial organisation, which will have its own plan and programme. Finally, I expected the candidate for governor of the National Bank of Serbia to appear here today and present some of its plans and monetary policy programme, which will lead and represent as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. However, it seems to be out of practice at all. (President: Mrs. Korri Udovicki wanted to address the National Assembly, but according to the Rules of Procedure, she has no right, only MPs can. I didn't know, I'm sorry. She had a good will, and she could at least write it down for us so we could read it, if she had no right to the Rules of Procedure to come here. At least let's read what a monetary program is, a monetary plan. Therefore, the Serbian Unity Party for these and other reasons will not support the proposal of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Finance Committee to elect Mrs. Udovicki as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Another reason is in favour, which is that the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which is directly dependent on monetary policy, is being led in the Bank of Serbia today, is being collapsed. Let's not close our eyes to the truth. People, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, look at the state of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Even 80% of our collectives don't work or work with reduced capacity. There are more and more workers out of work. Salaries are messy or shrinking. Stick to a 65.66-dollar euro course. The question is, how real is it? Ask importers and exporters today who is in a more favourable position and who is for what. Let's choose as governor of the National Bank of Serbia a person who will truly be independent in his work and who will not blindly execute what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has ordered. You know well that elections are coming and you want, I repeat, to put monetary policy and financial power under control.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33185	We end this afternoon's debate and I set a break by 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.40]] Dear People's MPs, please insert identification cards to determine the quorum. We find that we have a quorum to work with and continue a single search on decisions to elect governors and councils of the National Bank of Serbia. We continue the debate according to applications for the President's word, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. People's MP Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, then MP Zoran Krasic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, quite briefly on this. It is not true that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate for governor cannot attend the session and speak to us personally. Mrs. Kori Udovici is still the minister of energy in the government of the Republic of Serbia and according to the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, she has the right to attend the session and get a word when she asks the chairman. He has the right to speak on all issues on the agenda, not including the right to speak about the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia. So the chairman of the National Assembly incorrectly interpreted the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which prevents the governor from speaking to the National Assembly and to the MPs. So much for the Rules of Procedure. On the subject itself, even though this is about the subject, I would like to say that the references in the biography, Ms. Kori Udovici's professional references, can be a matter of personal understanding, of the experiences of the Members of Parliament, of what she was doing, it's undeniable that it's about an educated person, of a polyglothic. What could be controversial and what's a big dilemma for me right now is this relationship between Mrs. Korri Udovici and the IMF. National MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly do not have the necessary level of guarantee that the IMF will not exercise via Mrs. Kori Udovicki and have a direct impact on the monetary policy of the Serbian state, which would be quite delicate, although I do not say it could always be harmful. The position deserves special analysis, a special approach, the caution of council members, who will also be elected today. I remind you that one member of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia has been denied the election of members of the Council for the same number of years, in order to ensure incompetence in this regard, in order to prevent the influence of lobby, interest groups and other factors on the functioning of the Council and the governor himself. But the very fact that there is a possibility, or legal obligation, that a number of members of the Council are elected for two, three, four, five years, is precisely giving this possibility and giving lobbying opportunities. I remind you that two of the five members of the Council are directly influenced by the BK Group. That's not good. You can argue that, to draw different conclusions about it, but we'll have a situation like the RadioDifusing Council, which should be an independent firm, to work in accordance with principles, with the law, with other things, but when things get a little different look at certain circles come true, through some people who are members of these so-called. independent bodies, a direct impact on the bodies that should be independent and should ensure the independent functioning of the total National Bank of Serbia and everything that is going on there. As for the person, the proposal for governor, Mrs. Korri Udovicki, I would also like to say, of course, I couldn't risk it so that this extermination that's listed here as a reference experience in international organisations is challenging, but I do want to say, however, that the jobs of the governor of the National Bank of a country are very specific jobs. I repeat the sentence that I said when we talked about the law in principle -- in a serious state that is our size, there are no more than five or six people who are able to carry out the work of the governor of the National Bank responsibly, professionally and qualityly. It's a very delicate job, it's much easier to become head of state in one country than the governor of the National Bank or, say, the president of the Academy of Science... It's not a good comparison, but it could be. The SPS MPs will not vote in favour of this proposal, among other things, because of the contrary to Article 28. The law on the National Bank of Serbia, which was widely adopted in this assembly, Mrs. Korri Udovicki does not have the right to be a candidate. She didn't officially resign, she's a member of the government, and if she resigned, then the MPs don't, we didn't have when the proposal was set up, and today we talked about all the possibilities of the governor, or the minister in resignation. The conflict of jurisdiction here, not that it has not been avoided, but the full conflict of jurisdiction has been achieved, the conflict of interest to the level that cannot be affected, and that is another evidence that the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the personality of Kori Udovicki Trieste to provide a personal solution in the National Bank of Serbia, that it can affect the essential decisions of the National Bank on monetary policy, which, in a sense, disabling any fair effort that the position and role of the central bank in one country cannot be questioned in any way and that the only law can determine the position of this important institution in relation to the state, the citizens, of the government, is ultimately defined. I have tried very briefly to narrow down the reasons why SPS MPs will not vote either for members of the Council or for a candidate for governor. The impression remains that an interpersonal conflict in DOS itself had to end by making an urgent bill and changing the governor, which speaks of the ruling majority's intentions, to hold the mandate for a year at any cost. It is the right of the ruling majority, but the question is whether it is the best decision per citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. Our fellow MPs who have applied for this point will say a few more sentences. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33188	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33189	When something bad starts, there's a similar continuity. It began badly with the incursion of the National Bank of Yugoslavia with weapons, the abduction of a very significant state function. A few days ago, we had the opportunity to see that most of us here have passed one bad Law on the National Bank of Serbia and, of course, it goes into continuity and such a proposal to elect governors and councils of the National Bank of Serbia. What I would like to say below is not about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, it concerns the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is probably still valid, and it consists of the following. The Serbian Radical Party MP's group submitted a proposal on July 2nd to vote for the lack of confidence of Energy and Mining Minister Kori Udovicki. Under the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the proposal had to be found on the agenda of this assembly between July 6th and 17th this year. The MPs only received the proposal, but the session was not called, I would not now call on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which also prescribe the obligation within three to 15 days of the sea on the proposal to hold a debate and a statement. If the proposer has decided to propose to this lady the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and to prevent a debate on its mistrust, he has done a bad thing again. There's a lot of reasons we've been looking for her solution. But the number of reasons why we publicly say that it must not be elected governor of the National Bank of Serbia in the meantime has only increased. If you look at only the last page of this proposal and look at its biography, you will see that it actually meets the conditions for the elections in Mozambique or Zimbabwe and probably internal criteria for elections within the International Monetary Fund. This concludes that it does not actually meet the conditions prescribed by the Law, which was adopted in this congregation a few days ago. These conditions apply, above all, to the profession, to the appropriate work experience. She has no work experience in the monetary sphere. All that was -- an economist, a major economist -- it's a place of business in the system of the International Monetary Fund. She visited the globe as a representative of the International Monetary Fund in the accounting structure. Its pathways across African countries, at least read in biography, came to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so there has been the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and a brighter career since September 2001, when it is in the structure of the executive government in the Republic of Serbia. It is well-known for its success, as Minister of Energy and Mining, to explain what it means to pay for an installed electricity charge, i.e. for installed energy. It is known for following the mandates of the International Monetary Fund. You've seen this biography, and it's a work biography. You are now clear who has passed the rules on restricting wages in public enterprises, who has designed a system for the reorganisation of public enterprises, which has dictated monetary and fiscal policy for the past two years. This was done by the International Monetary Fund, more or less, via Kori Udovicki or through Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus. The law overtures this topic is a harsh fact that last September, the Serbian Radical Party submitted a proposal to vote for mistrust, namely to resolve the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic. All those in conflict, for several months now, with Mladjan Dinkic, have defended Mladjan Dinkic with exactly these characteristics that Kori Udovicki is now enthroning. It was similar last November when it came to the Serbian Radical Party's proposal in the Federal Assembly to resolve Miroljub Labus from the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government. No one wanted to hear that at the time. It all came down to the cards, the number of votes, and Miroljub Labus stayed. It took only a few months for the ruling DOS to find that there are accounts in the Marshall Islands, that there are bills in Cyprus, that Mladjan Dinkic's wife works at Miroljub Labus, that Labus' wife works here, that brother-in-law Miroljub Labus works here, etc. This is not the first time that this part of the DOS that is in power abuses what is the Serbian Radical Party's election initiative. Remember Leposava Karamarkovic, some judges. Remember organized crime. There's no inventivity, as I see it. It is the failed plagiarism of a political idea and one political initiative of the Serbian Radical Party. Nothing better will be Kori Udovici as governor of the National Bank of Serbia than Mladjan Dinkic. That's for sure. So far, politics and what Kori Udovici was doing had no impact on the DOS, it had only the International Monetary Fund. Be assured that will happen when you choose her as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. In a few months, live and see, all of you who vote for it today will ask for it to be resolved because the policy of the International Monetary Fund in this area is no different from that of the policy that was led in Argentina for several years, and in Argentina, it ended with a monetary Sunflower, a chaos from which they can't even come out today, and every day they fall into deeper and deeper debt slavery. We are in debt slavery from the moment the rescue for the economic life of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia was found in donations, sponsorships and all that comes from abroad, with conditions. After this election, you can freely say that politics in the Republic of Serbia is not run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia but by the International Monetary Fund, when it comes to monetary policy; when it comes to foreign trade policy, then there is the World Trade Organisation and Rotari Club, and when it comes to defence and security, then there are the security structures of the OSCE and NATO, and when it comes to some other areas, the real employer, the one who dictates, manages and implements politics through his people, such as Kori Udovicki, are some foreign factors. A few months ago, I pointed out to you a serious situation that all those who have touched you by 2000 -- that you are a perspective, that by fitting into the modern flows of the European Union, you need to find salvation for this space and this people, they have done something bad to you. They've permanently written you off. That's for sure. Now they're looking for brand-new faces, new characters, new groups that are going to implement what's being drawn somewhere in Brussels, New York and elsewhere. Kori Udovicki and the people you have proposed, who probably meet the conditions regarding the profession and, perhaps, somewhat working biography, do not meet the condition that this type and this caliber are banking experts who could be in the National Bank of Serbia. And in this group of five people, the predominance and conflict between the Democratic Party and other parties within that part of the DoS that is ruling in Serbia is being imitated. The previous speaker told two, at least two members, of these five, that they are under the patronage of a large bank and that they are under the patronage of a great magnet that wants to preserve its capital, its wealth. He'll pay the fines, but he'll always hold the proper position. It's your choice, we can't influence your decision. I'm sure you've been estimating something and come to some conclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33190	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33191	Yes, but since we're talking about the bad moves in continuity, we just heard that Mrs. Korri Udovici has been making moves in Serbia for the past few years that she's not popular. The promoter not only tried to explain it to some media reasons, but he wanted to say -- they had to draw some moves that were painful, and she was the best to say it was painful. She's famous for her statement - if you don't have the money to pay for the electricity, then sell your apartments and houses, then pay for the electricity. Believe that logic to be repainted and in the place of governor of the National Bank of Serbia, so logic will be this: if you don't have the money for the elementary existence, and the late social benefits, you have no place to go to work, since the company is closed, then sell the house to buy bread, don't be surprised, because that's the IMF policy, that's the carrot-free stick. The carrot's long gone, it's gone, now it's just baseball bats, it's changing variations, variations on baseball bats and think about it. There's got to be something good to do for this people, and I just can't figure out that in the last three years, you've made no move to make this situation a little easier for people. You're fooled by someone saying everything needs to be burned and ashes, so I guess something's gonna come up new and healthy, and where are our people gonna be by then, who's gonna see that new and healthy? Generations are losing perspective over this kind of economic policy. It's not popular and it won't be popular. Furthermore, the formally-legal proposer of this decision and this election is the Financial Committee. Several members of the Committee have illustrated how the proposal took place. According to the letter of the law, each member of the Finance Committee could propose and bid a name that could be found in circulation when deciding and forming the proposal. The session was also attended by Kori Udovicki, most of whom found it appropriate to push through the Committee of its candidate, but that you informed and said, on that day and so many hours, that the session of the Committee on Finance will be held, that a proposal should be established for candidates to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and that you invited all interested parties who meet the conditions, what would the Committee do? What if a candidate shows up for a better biography, with greater working experience and with results, but positive results in implementing some economic policy and creating and implementing economic policy. You have a candidate, Kori Udovici, who neither creates politics, and all he's doing so far has been a bad policy, bad results. She's been preparing an electrical power system for a year and a half to privatize, so now she's stopped a bit, because she's provoked miners and citizens and, believe me, no one wants to hear her name and name. Now move a little bit to the side under the IMF, there will be something in the monetary sphere, a special team will build in the National Bank of Serbia that will control the banks, remember that, because it will be the first job she will do. What follows - unobedited domestic banks will have to shut down or reduce their potential that they cannot influence and participate in the upcoming privatisation process. Now there are privileged banks that you have provided very favourable loans from abroad for restructuring, reconstruction and the work of small and medium-sized enterprises, but it is alarming that there is no one left to report to be the beneficiary of these loans. One of the directors of a large bank that you extend and which makes you offices for the Democratic Party, whether in the vicinity of or near the branch of that bank, is already having problems, because there is nowhere to place the funds, and the commitments are coming to everyone who has given funds from abroad and he is constantly looking for reports. The Serbian Radical Party is known for its deception, she was deceived when she asked Governor Mladjan Dinkic for a shift from Miroljub Labus, so you settled on our deception, so you deleted them a few days ago. The SRS may have fooled some people from organized crime, but if someone looks at your statements in the paper a little bit and reads book number 31 Vojislav Seselj, you'll see that everything is done by what's written in that book, but you've obviously misread it. That book has its own addition, in that supplement you are described as described in the first book in 450 of your committees with criminal records as early as November 2000, and you forgot that, but there are those of us who do not forget. So, today you're going to pick a council, you're going to choose a governor, you're going to represent it as if it's something epochal, it's going to be a new day for Serbia, the euro is going to be 70 dinars, it's going to start exporting. The export won't start, because there's nothing to export. They're gonna start a business, you don't know what job to start. In the definition between the two same Mladjan Dinkic and Kori Udovici SRS, there's nothing to choose from, so I don't know who you suggested it was from the IMF structure. So you provoke us and you don't give us the right to choose. We can't choose between the same, there must be some difference in something to look at. There is no difference here, there is only an attempt to introduce a new Law on the National Bank of Serbia to something better and better quality, and in fact to confirm what is old and to give even greater control powers to the new governor, and that the Council stands for him as a decoration, because if you look at what his powers are, it is a council without jurisdiction, without control, without being able to influence monetary policy. You'll choose, and in a few months we'll be watching you and listening to these people, first two months across the media, preparing for a shot, and then here you're choosing a new governor. If that's your final range of politics, then you know what happens next.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33192	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Cirkovic, representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33193	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Mrs. Micic, respected presidency, respected parliamentary cards, as someone more funny than me earlier said, let's say, what Minister Djelic says -- that the budget deficit for this year is 9 billion, and will be resolved -- one -- from the agrarian budget, two -- from the MUP budget and three -- the state will save on itself and the other is the fourth -- the alternative is the primary show. I have the impression that the conflict between the G17 and the remaining DOS is falsified, because it simply wants the electorate to polarize and say this, there are only these two things, there are no third things, and of course those two things are different at first. When we trick you and you vote for us or for them, thinking that they're not us, then we'll reunite you and so on. The Serbian variant is being pushed through for a simple reason to prove it is the only, unfortunately, scarce choice. Otherwise, the tradition of Serbian governors is that bills are signed with Cyrillic. I hope Mrs. Udovici Kori, and otherwise it is common, is a common name in Serbia, I know in my village of Leposava, Milivojka, and the third Kori. I guess she'll have time to practice nicely, so that tradition of signature will be preserved. The choice of governors in Serbia was never a matter of political taste. I don't usually praise the communists, on the contrary, but I will point out that after defeating the communist revolution, the same governor Radosavljevic was detained, and I mean until the 1960s, who was governor and in Nedic's government, signed a dinar for the simple reason that he was a professional and Serbia had no one else to trust him with that governor's stick. Serbs, as a people of tolerance, who respect others, have never demonstrated boredom, and so to speak, a Jew could have been governor of the National Bank of Serbia, for the simple reason he is expert. Therefore, no one is objecting to Mrs. Korri Udovicki's background, but I can object to her (calm down Mrs. Milka) from the aspect of my political taste. My father and I were destined to be ruled by the fathers of communism. I was hoping that at least my son would escape that fate. As things flow, he will not be punished. So the children of communism will rule the lives of my son and mine. What do we do? Of course, speaking of fathers and children of communism, and I was thinking about those who introduced us to communism, and I was thinking about their children who were not to blame for it. On that basis, they really don't have to be punished, but I'm asking what they have to be rewarded for. I point out once again that Serbia's governorial post was occupied by people of special expertise. I point out one important fact, let's say historically known, that the currency is cash, our dinar, preserved its value even after World War I, even though the economy was completely devastated. So, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, both you who hear and do not hear, the New Serbia Parliament Club will not support the election of governors, Mrs. Udovicki. I know that's why you're upset, but that's why you're trying to get them 126, so get on with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33194	Is there anyone else applying for a word from the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word has been made by MP Stanko Kovacevic, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, and the next reported for the word is MP Milorad Mircic, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33195	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, I had the intention of giving up the debate on this agenda point to contribute to the shortening of the debate. As a former head of Parliament, who sits in this bloc, has always given me a go-ahead to go-ahead for this pay phone, and today a young excited lawyer has given me a clagworth to decide and come for this pay phone, because in his debate, he has been demeaning the governor and the governor's proposal to serve the insinuations, he has been using postages as an undeveloped part of Africa, such as the government's desire to get rid of his minister of energy, not wanting any moment to realize that he can not clean a single pair of shoes for the governor of the National Bank, let alone the whole shoe. If any of us are willing to read the CV proposal correctly and honestly, I mean, biography and movement in service, then it would be very easy to find out that the proposed candidate has available and professional performances that will surely guarantee, including its position on the international, monetary and financial market, very successful and responsible performance of the governor of the National Bank. Some of the speakers from this speaker argued that she will not be independent, that the monetary policy of this country and the National Bank of Serbia will not lead the governor, nor will the government, but will lead the IMF, forgetting that yesterday's candidate for the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs Kori Udovicki, has made it clear that she cannot be independent from the government of Serbia, because she is coming from the government of Serbia, clearly and loudly, I will be independent, but I will be ready to sit in the government of Serbia 24 hours a day or with the Serbian government in the governor's cabinet to discuss the details of what we disagree and why we disagree, but I will remain responsible for responsible for performing the functions of the governor. I am firmly convinced, following Mrs. Kori Udovici's work as Minister of Energy, because I had the opportunity to work with her through the Board of Directors of NIS and following what she did together with management, trade unions and management of the EPS, that she would be fully responsible and worthy of doing the work of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and, alive, we will see, we will all see it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33196	The word is made by the MP Milorad Mircic, the SRS parliamentary group, and then by the MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33197	If this proposal would be discussed with positions of party interest and political benefit, then the SRS could be almost satisfied, overly satisfied. This is an approximately ideal solution that goes in favour, if this is how the proposal is viewed by the majority in the Assembly, and maybe they have two or three names within the DOS that would be ideal, one of them has been expelled from the government, and the other one is busy, is temporarily the Prime Minister. We're completely satisfied, looking at the scrawny interests. On the other hand, political interests are satisfied because this proposal is against the law. It is contrary to the law adopted in this congregation the other day. A representative of the promoter himself said that contrary to that law, a member of the Council should be a retired man, and in that same law, a member decidingly excludes the possibility of a prominent political figure, a party official, a MP or a member of the government. That member is being neglected. A member of the government stands at the head of the bank, most likely by the will of the minority. The law itself provides for the election of the head of the National Bank, the central bank -- most of the total number present. So to elect the governor of the National Bank in Serbia, 64 votes are enough. Voice, you've got it all figured out. These votes consist of a smaller part of the MPs present, and much of the cards inserted. As you started, they'll be able to vote from far more distant places than Beijing. So far it's a record of Beijing, Thessalonica has fallen into oblivion. What's very interesting is that the proposer himself, proposing a candidate for governor of the National Bank, lists some things that are not founded in real economic conditions. First, that the new governor of the National Bank will maintain price stability, that it will maintain the amount or height of foreign exchange reserves, that it will maintain the stability of the dinar. Look, guys, what are we talking about here, when the NBS foreign reserve is much less than it is in the straws of the citizens of this country. When in three years you have failed to convince your reform policy, convince the citizens to give you the trust of their foreign exchange, so what in a year's time, by nominating a new governor, will you succeed? It's out of your mind. Secondly, your total savings amount to 900m euros. The total amount of dinar in circulation is 200m euros. That's the data, that's your statistics. What are you talking about? You're talking about a fog. It doesn't matter whether Dinkic or someone is headed by such a people's bank. That people's bank, according to all the real parameters, could not exist anywhere in the world. Perhaps only in these countries where the candidate has perfected, there may be such banks. It's the only thing you can take advantage of. Gentlemen, you're acting and proposing here, making plans like you're going to be another term. You won't, gentlemen. As for a fellow who throws, and I'm sure you'll have another mandate, because once a man in politics breaks, then there's no lower limit. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] My friend, you've broken one, there's no such thing as a limit for you. That line depends and functions on the morale of a person, but once a man loses it, he never regains it again. As far as the second part of our political benefit is concerned, so is Serbia, the Serbian public. Finally, Serbian citizens can see what happened after October 5th, that is to say, to hear from the mouth of those who participated and were the leaders of the five-October revolution. They didn't trust us with Serbian radicals, but now the people see, they confess themselves. They recognize themselves, these wonderful and great experts in monetary systems, banking organisations, those who say -- the greatest advantage being being the first associates of Avramovic. So, who are you guys lying to? Avramovic could be whoever he wanted. It was an administrative route by Slobodan Milosevic, who then had a majority, declared a stable dinar. Well, is Labus an expert, is Dinkic an expert, is this one you're proposing now an expert on? They were all co-workers in one way or another of the governments whose president claimed, and that was Radoje Kontic, to remind you -- if inflation stops, he is willing to resign. As Avramovic arrived, Dinkic could also be called then, inflation stopped. An administrative dinar has been declared to be a parity 1:1 when it comes to stamps. That's right now. What's the point? The goal and task of this new governor is to get as much out of the straws as possible. How's that gonna work? Unreal dinar course, euro ratio, price hike. Well, already this minister has high merits, has increased the price of electricity, oil prices have increased and are going enormously to high all-time prices. What kind of price stability? The man, in order to reconcile his obligations to the state and to the communals - electricity and everything else, has to get out of the straw, because the salary is small or, more specifically, it's not there. That is the essence of your monetary policy, and for that you have the support of the IMF. Well, they're the biggest support they've given Argentina, and you're going to go through the same way they did in Argentina.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33198	The People's MP Ljubomir Mucic has the word, followed by Parliament MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33199	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before I wish you a pleasant holiday, I would like to remind you of some things and to well establish your knowledge, given that the same thing is waiting for us in a month or two days, when we come back to discuss the governor in this assembly. I said, when we talked about the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, "all that's fast, it's also short." The law was passed on Friday, effective Saturday. Yesterday, we had a committee session, today's second session of the board, so what I started yesterday at the board session, I would like to end this at the end of this session and thus point out that in a month to two days we will talk again about the election of governors and that by then Mladjan Dinkic will remain governor of the National Bank of Serbia. What's this about? It is a famous member of the 28th that is in this law, and you have accepted and requested - incompatibility of functions, conflict of interest and termination of function. He says, "The governor, the vice governors, members of the council and employees with special powers cannot be MPs in the National Assembly, members of the Government," etc. We talked a lot about it yesterday, we agreed, and I expected Mrs. Kori Udovicki today, as Minister of Energy, to resign at least to this home, whether or not this house will verify it. That resignation until the start of the debate, and I even think it won't be delivered until the vote, nor offered to this assembly, although I think there's every basis for doing so. Why am I saying this? Article 30 says the end of the term of office to the governor, vice governors and members of the Council. I separate this opportunity from the members of the council, given that these are the people of the university and most of them at the time I studied, and I'll tell them something later. He says, "The Governor, Vice Governors and members of the Council shall cease office before the end of the term of office: unless he delivers or delivers a false statement of information under Article 28 of this Act; if he does not deliver a declaration that he is not an MP or is not a member of the Government." At this moment, we, neither at the board's session nor at the session of this assembly, have a statement from the Council, we have no statement from the governor's candidate, that he is not or is a member of the government and that he will resign to the post. That's about Article 30. Article 31 - The Council is obliged to determine whether the conditions for the suspension of the governors and the Council are established within the deadline prescribed here, 60 days, are required to submit a report to this Committee of the Finance Assembly on whether the governor, who will be or will not be elected, has fulfilled all the conditions under the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. In Article 32, the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for finance also determines the fulfilment of the conditions for termination of office, i.e. the resolution of members of the Council, and initiates the procedure before the National Assembly. What I'm saying is that what we started yesterday at the Committee's session was needed in a calm and regular way to start off at one job, given that this is the first time that the Finance Committee has led some kind of human resources policy in the area of public finance. I remind you once again, Articles 28, 30, 31. The NBS law says that under these conditions Mrs. Kori Udovici cannot be a candidate for governor, because if the governor is not a candidate, he may not be proposed by the Finance Committee. We're going back to that topic I started yesterday, which is who could have proposed candidates within this time frame. When we got a call for the board meeting, one agenda at the board's session, another agenda still so I don't point that out. As for the council members, I'd like to say that perhaps some of these members of the council, which have been proposed here, would be proposed by the SPS. Some of these candidates really deserve attention to be also proposed as professional people, as experts, given that in the past 20, 30 to 40 years they were truly exceptional experts in the field of monetary economy and in the area of finance. I keep everything slowly explained. If we take biographies and suggestions, we'll see that it's a good thing that they're mostly economists, economic scientists, but I think maybe I should have found an expert in economic law in this council, considering that this area of monetary economy really should have an extremely professional and good lawyer. All of them, apart from this new candidate Šoškovic, were experts in the government of Ante Markovic, I ask the question whether anyone who knew who was governor at the time of Ante Markovic, and whether they even wondered what the governor was doing, what his tasks were and whether he was a political figure at all. I don't think there were any problems at the time between monetary and executive authorities. All of this led mainly to this debate that turned into a mutual war between NBS governors and the government of the Republic of Serbia. What's this all about? I can say that it's really deep behind what's been going on, and what's going to happen in the next three months. In a very report by the finance ministry, which was presented yesterday by Mr Bozidar Djelic, it was said that we are expected to have an extremely difficult three months in the budget, and Mr Dinkic, although he gave several billion short-term loans to the Republika Srpska budget for overcoming indifference, dared to say no, no, no, no more. And whether this will be respected by Mrs. Kori Udovici, we remain to see, given that loans and interest payments are also coming in September by incredits, and indeed, in the budget of 13.14 billion more income expenditure, and in the social security fund of the planned 73 billion in six months, 60 billion have been achieved, according to the fact that even by borrowing from the NBS will no longer be possible to service the regular commitments of the budget and to settle social contributions and pensions, given that production is no longer available. There's a growing number of people who don't get paid, and the profits at this point are minimal. I can also say that these are the direct descendants of one earlier and some earlier policies, and that this advice really has good grounds and predispositions. The only problem will be what they have next to them, if elected, and a lot of documentation, as well as IMF envoys, and on that side there will certainly be a lot of problems both around decisions themselves and implementing council decisions by the governors. You couldn't hear everything, given this media blockade, that nobody said anything against the governor's candidate. There were yesterday at the board meeting and some other views compared to those proposed by DOS as a proposal and an explanation proposal for a candidate for governor, but I don't think we have any reason not to say here what awaits us in the next period and what follows us when we return from our annual vacation. I say we re-elected the governor and I want you to rest nicely, to choose and propose a real candidate, and to cooperate with members of the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33200	The People's MP Dragan Marsican has the word, and then the MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33201	At that time, the apostles wore white socks because they respected the National Assembly. They did not often change, but they carried them to the congregation, to funerals, to weddings, for the respect of their whereabouts. These modern - day MPs, in what is today called the National Assembly, do not wear white socks, but do not wear ties. Look at you gentlemen, look at me. We don't wear it because we don't respect this home, because this home isn't for respect, because it's illegal and illegal. As he is illegal and illegal, ask the President of the Constitutional Court. In this room are MPs whose mandates have been challenged by the Constitutional Court and shamed by anything sitting there. So how do you speak in a so-called an institution, in a congregation, how to take and why to take part in the so-called The debates here, in such a congregation that the MPs themselves do not respect, little in shoes, in jeans, in short pants, tomorrow we will come, whose work is not public, which is not legal and legitimate, if not for one simple reason why we should leave something written and for some future searchers of our present, for those who will analyse the causes of the collapse of an idea, the reasons for the collapse of the first power that replaced Milosevic's power. That's why I can only begin my address, and a little to cheer you up, by speaking to a respected stenographer. So, respected stenographers... I said I'd cheer you up, and I'm glad it happened. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] I'm asking the hyenas from New Now to stop howling. Thank you, Chairman, for keeping ringing to calm the irresponsible MPs. So, respected stenographers, if it hadn't been for the Democratic Party of Serbia's decision not to declare the choice of the proposed candidate, I would have supported the election for several reasons. However, I feel free to hold the mandate of the MP, but I will still respect the party's decision, which reads - we will not plead for the candidates. Intimately, I really think you should support him for a number of reasons. First, what choice quite consistently illustrates DOS personnel policy, though it does harm the state, harming citizens, but we can't prevent it, the DOS doesn't want to give up, and that policy is actually politics -- the wrong man, at the wrong time, in the wrong place. This proposal and this choice actually resembles that human policy. He's in line with all the other personnel solutions, so I'm just going to illustrate them, which is why I support an application that harms not only the state, but also the DOS. Since I can't prevent damage to the state, I would all-out vote in favour of a proposal to harm DOS, because that would reduce the damage to the country. Milka Marinkovic: After all, she left you. Milka, do you need anything? Quite in the stand with DOS staff policy, as is the assistant foreign minister, pianist, piano professor; or current adviser to the finance minister, by the education of the lawyer, and I suppose the finance is very well-known, and before that the adviser to the federal minister of police; and yet, with various education informations, but in any case not high, is now the President of the Republic Government, and he was also a candidate for the defence minister, without a military deadline. Again, the military minister, sociologist or psychologist in education, a clinical psychologist in education, was Minister of Telecommunications. So, general policy geniuses are absolutely represented in this democratic government, and this election by Kori Udovici shows, and she succeeds the builder, Mr. Novakovic's Energy Minister, who successfully did his job, so he had to leave, so she did the job successfully and then will go to the satisfaction of, above all, the EPS workers, especially the Kolubara workers. In that sense, so observed, only Duško Mihajlović, indeed, is completely jumping out of that concept -- once the Uguje, always the Udje, and that's something DOS has to solve. There's no oscillation. In that sense, therefore, as a wrong move by the DOS, I support the move, it does damage the DOS, I cannot prevent this other damage, and in that sense, if it hadn't been for the Democratic Party of Serbia's decision, I would have voted for the proposal. Mrs. Widowsky, not only that, she's impotent at all, she's a woman who shows she's willing, she paints her will. She says she can. If he says he can be both Minister of Energy and Minister... Why couldn't she be governor? She showed it, my fellow youth, who is not a lawyer, but said in which banking systems and countries she proved herself to be. I totally believe that when she says she will and can, she will and can. That's how it really works. What should be kept in mind and why I would support Mrs. Kori Udovicki's choice is that in fact that the governor's place will only be formally covered, the governor's seat has already been filled, the choice has been made, by the adoption of the National Bank Act she has received a collective governor, the collective governor's politburo DOS, that is, the DOS presidency and Kori Udovici will be here only for modest pay and undoubtedly high total incomes that work will be formally carried out, and in that sense, the damage from the name itself will be less. Finally, it is good that this way, by adopting the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and by choosing Mrs. Udovicki as governor, the last, I suppose, anti-reform obstacle to DOS reform forces has been removed. This destroyed the anti-refromic core in the National Bank of Serbia, Yugoslavia and Serbia, which were hampered by that momentum of reforms, prevented better results from the reform government, removed a huge obstacle to a successful reform course and from today on, the wheel will be launched in a much faster pace. It's very good that those brakes are gone. The reformers are now fully owned... Novakovic, what is it? Do you have any ticks, what is it? You've got some faces. I recommend a neuropsychiatrist. He's really got some weird faces. (President: Fix on other MPs. I can't, I'm sick. When I see a man in trouble, I'd like to run for his help. Does anyone have a Bensedin or something for Mr. Novakovic? Now that that last obstacle has been removed, that reform car, that reform vehicle will be moving at full speed. The only problem, gentlemen dear, is that that vehicle is going in the wrong direction, going down, not up. So if I were not limited by the Democratic Party of Serbia's decision, the choice and continuation of the concepts, the wrong man in the wrong place at the wrong time, would be supported by my vote. Unfortunately, all I have to do is thank you for your neat writing and for the fact that I've had the opportunity to see you so cheerful.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33202	The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33203	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with us from the Serbian Radical Party, it is clear how we will vote. We will not vote for the governor of the National Bank of Serbia to be Kori Udovici. Peaceful consciences can come before you and we can tell you that, because we weren't on the election list, because we didn't vote for the government that was established on January 25, 2001, and this one just continues its continuity, with some small staff changes. At least with us, the radicals are all clear and clear, as you like to say, transparently, and not twisted, tampered with and blurted. I would return to the proposal to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I see Mr. Powerful Proposer has arrived. I've heard some stories, some of my colleagues, about how the governor's candidate promises to fight for price stability. We see from the biography that Kori Udovicki, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia since June 2002, so when it comes to politics, I can't trust her. How many times has the current been collected so far, since when has it been headed by the Ministry of Mining and Energy? The current has accumulated more than 40%, with the last collection in less than a year, since Kori led the ministry. There have been stories that we have to increase the electricity price due to the policy of the International Monetary Fund, because our electricity price is very low, not on the European average, so our citizens now pay electricity of over six cents, and that same electricity is exported to the same European Union by 2.5 cents. How come Kori Udovici will not succumb to the pressure of the International Monetary Fund or the Government of the Republic of Serbia? When it comes to this policy, the price, other than what I can say, is in principle not the job of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. The price policy is not run by the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia runs monetary policy, in terms of preserving the rate of dinars, the amount of money on the market -- whether it corresponds to foreign reserves and has very little impact on prices. Before the price, first of all, there's got to be a drop in the dinar. It's only under such conditions that the price rises. Some other preconditions are needed, which is that primary emissions, through government, or through public consumption, are directed to the market. However, it takes the government's consent to do so, so that Kori is very little to ask, at least as far as such a policy is concerned. It would be appropriate, before the debate on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, at least in a way, Mr Dinkic, who still performs the duties of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, to settle at least in this assembly, or it might be better this way: to drive him out of that place like he did in the five-eyed revolution in 2000, when he broke into the People's Bank of Yugoslavia with rifles, to embezzled about half a billion foreign exchange reserves, and for which no one knows how and in what way they were spent, or to avoid the answer to the fact that those funds were available to crisis headquarters, in which you all participated together, and now, behold, someone else is guilty - when the house came was empty, so it couldn't have been better, in those moments. There is another problem from that period, that from October 5th to December's elections, all the time, you've made public that because of the power shortage, which our electricity system couldn't provide, we've received donations from the countries of the European Union. That's not gonna happen. That half a billion dollars is mostly spent buying that electricity, which is reportedly from donations. As for the biography of the proposed candidate, Kori Udovici, I can only say that she may, in any case, be qualified to do this job in Zimbabwe or Mozambique, and here the situation is something different. I don't think we need import experts, that we have enough domestic experts, which, certainly, would do much better and better quality than Kori Udovici.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33204	The People's MP Jovan Todorovic has the word, followed by the MP Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33205	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will mainly base my presentation on several, in my opinion, very important issues and for deciding in this house, but also for applying the decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. First, I ask all my colleagues and colleagues, provided the parliamentary majority decides to elect Mrs. Kori Udovicki as governor of the National Bank of Serbia, when will Mrs. Kori Udovicki take office as governor? We have before us a decision that consists of only two members. Article 1 says it is elected Governor of the National Bank of Mrs. Kori Udovici. Article 2 says this decision will be published in the Official Messenger. When will it be published? When will this decision take effect? When will Mrs. Cory Widowsky take over as governor? I think it's open. (Bosko Ristic, from the scene: tomorrow.) ) I remind you of a part of the text of the law we adopted on Friday. The part says, "The governor to whom the term of office of governor has ceased until the election of a new governor." Who can answer the following question: when will Mrs. Corry Widowsky take the governor's post? (Bosko Ristic, from the scene: tomorrow.) ) If he enters office tomorrow, it will be contrary to Article 28, which says that the governor's obligations cannot be carried out by a person who is both an MP or a member of the government. We do not have the resignation of Mrs. Korri Udovici, nor do we have the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a new Minister of Energy and Mining, nor do we have the decision of this assembly on her discharge from the office of a member of the Government. Don't think this is a meaningless question. I believe that this question is very serious, and above all, because there are certain obligations that this governor, in the coming time, and some very soon, must carry out. One of these obligations, which stems from the National Bank Act, is the National Bank Governor's report on the situation in the banking system and in the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, which he is obliged to deliver by the end of September at the latest. We're going on vacation today. We'll be back at the end of August from vacation. The question has been raised whether we will have the report in good time, bearing in mind the fact that most of the current governor Dinkic's associates said they would no longer work on these jobs at the National Bank. The whole procedure, which is based on meeting within 24 hours of the Finance Committee and passing one and how the shortened procedure or to propose a governor, is only going to harm that governor, who I honestly think might be able to successfully carry out, given the data from his biography. Honestly, there's something about this information that speaks about Mrs. Widowsky's expertise and professional willingness to do this job. But if this is how it's chosen, and we don't even know when it's going to take office, then it's a very open question when it's actually going to happen and how it's going to get into that job. I have no intention of protecting any previous situation, especially Governor Dinkic, which, as a man of little understanding in finance, I am not satisfied at all. He speaks of the fact that the National Bank of Serbia, or formerly the National Bank of Yugoslavia, was the most successful institution since 5 October 2000 until today. I don't know what that success is looking at. It should not be the governor of the National Bank, nor too smart, nor too wise to turn over the taps, or to not print money and thus stop inflation. That's not what the governor's job is about. It's one of the governors' jobs, but it's a much wider obligation for the governor. There is one more fundamental question, this former governor, Mladjan Dinkic, whom we have not resolved and who will, in fact, end his duty on the day when it is known here when Kori Udovici takes office, was headed by our delegation or commission that has negotiated with the London Club of Trustees. Please, negotiations with the London Club of Trustees are not a joke, especially when you have to bear in mind that exactly your Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic, I would say he may deliberately deceive the public about the state of Serbia's sovereign debt towards the international community, according to creditors and the Paris Club, and if you want the London Club. Why am I saying that? Because he talks about our debt situation being $12.5 billion, or the euro, but it implies that negotiations with the London Club will be settled in the same procedure and in the same proportion as with the Paris Club and that commercial banks and other legal entities, companies from the West, will write down at least two-thirds of the interest for which we have, however, unwarrantedly owed at the time of sanctions and that only then will we be able to talk about $12.5 billion. For now, that debt is 16.5 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, which is about $18.5 billion and is the difference between the six billion. Among other things, the function of the National Bank is that with the international community, with international financial institutions, with the IMF, the World Bank and the London Club, it finds appropriate ways to address the debt problem of the Serbian state. Is Cory Widowsky going to be able to do that job? Third, you must remember that monetary authority is a special kind of government. It's not executive, it's not judicial, it's not legislative, but it is a kind of government, and as such it has the authority in this law to, among other things, be in debt. We discussed when there was a discussion of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and warned about the real dangers arising from the fact that the National Bank could be in charge of international financial organisations for up to a year. Paragraph 2 states that, exceptionally from that provision, an IMF debt of more than a year can be owed to the IMF. Paragraph 3 states that it can be owed in the medium term, but according to a special law, so after the decision of the National Assembly. I am now plagued by this position of 2nd where the National Bank is empowered to be in charge of the IMF and with a period of repayment of those funds for more than a year. I remind you all that in time this Governor Dinkic, who we are literally replacing with the election of a new governor, owed this country to the IMF for $850m, with a goal, or with an IMF task to use these funds in so-called. foreign reserves and are used exclusively for the stability of dinars relative to the euro. So, Kori Udovici, as an expert working for the IMF, can benefit from learning how the IMF thinks. I'm warning you of one danger, it's just this way of thinking that Cory Widowly got, and that's what the IMF thinks. If she applies that way of thinking here, we'll only have a problem, because the same IMF will make us hold this level of foreign exchange reserves, and in order to have a secure payment to abroad for at least six months in advance, at this external trade deficit, it's almost impossible to secure. So we're going to have to withdraw new loans from the IMF to preserve that so-called. The stability of the dinars relative to the euro. There's going to be a very big problem, because then how are we going to serve it all up and debt it if we have that way of thinking? Of course I think like most of my colleagues that it's not the same thing to do this or a similar job in Serbia or work in Mozambique or Zimbabwe. I have no intention of underestimating these countries, but it's another economic zone, another financial zone, another psychology and another kind of problem. In the end, I want to say that I find it a little indicative that the issue of electricity prices has been addressed at the same time by Mr Dinkic, as the current governor of the National Bank and Mrs Kori Udovici, as the Minister of Energy, and that we all know that the IMF is, I am paying particular attention to that in my discussion, asking that the price of electricity be increased in order to level the price with some world price, and we all know what the consequences are. Electricity has accumulated, and even more in the winter period will accumulate, and we will have a big problem in achieving the first goal in the functioning of the National Bank, which is stability in price. It's also known to affect the overall price rise in this country. Of course, I don't want to talk about what possible problems may be in relation to executive power, as the government, finance minister and Mrs. Kori Udovicki as governor will say, when the issue of the budget deficit is even more pronounced. Please, Mr. Djelic admits that so far there are nine billion dinars, because there are no donations and because it will be at 3.6 billion, because there are no foreign loans in the promised amounts and it counts on us replacing those holes with increased privatisation funds. If we have the general state of the banking and financial system so that there is no purchasing power for the privatisation that is planned, then that will not be possible either. Of course, it's sad that it's actually going to deny the funds allocated to the Agrarian budget, so that somehow the budget gaps are calmed down, and it's like a story that we've actually been repeating for three years now in the case of RTS, which is financed by the burden of the Agricultural Budget, and the shame of the MPs, so all of us, and the positions and opposition, in this assembly. I have to because it's known that nothing at this point is more than agrarian activity, from agricultural production, because it's the only one that's actually present when it shows a social gross product and general growth in production. Unfortunately, in the last six months, we have 6.4% decreases in production compared to December, and compared to the first six months, we have 2.4% decreases in production, instead of projected growth of 4-4.5%, which would allow basic economic indicators from the 2003 memorandum of economic policy to be achieved here when we adopt the 2003 budget. Just a few sentences to say about the Council; because that's how we do it, we've come to suggest a man who's retired for some time and for a member of the Council, and we haven't even studied the law. It's very bad for me that we're going to come to such a situation in the future, which is normal. The Finance Committee is not by itself the professional authority or body of this congregation and I could look at it all. We here have a formal proposal from the Finance Committee, and I'm asking you all -- who exactly is Mrs. Korri Udovicki's proposal to be governor? I'm not sure it's our esteemed colleague, Nesa Bogdanovic, but someone else suggested it, and that's the story we're going to have to talk about all the time. There wasn't, as far as I know, a formal session of the DOS presidency to propose. So it must be that perhaps the Prime Minister, I respect that proposal, is not disputed with me, but I find it contentious that in this debate it was not possible to determine who the motionor was and that this debate did not come to the conclusion that we personally hear what she means to do as governor of the National Bank here in this assembly. I am not alone from those who would say naively now - it should be a public story, but if I were the president of the Assembly, then this session today would be closed to the public, because it's talking about monetary policy next year or a policy that will be implemented by the end of the year, which means both course and course regime, but all MPs of the National Assembly would be able to hear how future monetary policy sees the future governor of the National Bank. We're denied something like that. That is not correct, since we are not in a position to hear the governor with the reasons of his policy that will be present in the next period. For those reasons, I don't think we should do it anymore. We have an emergency procedure, all in eight hours, within 24 hours. We have a meeting of the Finance Committee at 10.00 p.m., i.e. at 14.00 p.m., and then the maintenance period changes, and then you say, why didn't you come to the Committee's session, and then you follow that debate and suggest another candidate. It doesn't make sense, because it's a rape of democracy and because it doesn't lead anywhere, and we make the wrong decisions that we ourselves don't know how to apply them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33206	The Messenger of the people is Radomir Nahum; and after him is the messenger of the people, Lazarus of Marjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me at first address the Madam Chairman with the question, do you know who all the MPs in the Assembly are? In the assembly for the 14th extraordinary session, which says that it was called at the request of 96 MPs in the National Assembly, the signatures of the names of people I thought were no longer MPs. Look, for example, a list of members of the Democratic Centre, my friend, a good acquaintance, Radoslav Nektarijević, is signed, there are more, and I would not further quote here. So that might actually be my concrete contribution to that little ironic remark in the introduction of Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic, that we, as legalists, don't always understand all things. But to move to the agenda, the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia and members of the Council. The other day, the first man of the government said, and television repeated several times during that day, that the governor of the National Bank was not, or should not be, an expert, but only a good clerk. Although, good, and probably meant obedient. These words indicated the intention to elect a government official in Serbia's highest legislative body, so in the Serbian Parliament. Today's the day to pick that chivalrous. Gentlemen People's MPs, in addition to the incredible ease and courage, with which today's charming candidate from the referent post at the Ministry of Finance swept into the saddle of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, I believe and want to disprove the wishes of the authorities and not succumb to the expected pressures. I'm not voting for her choice. This does not mean, however, that I cannot present here several personal observations regarding the difficult and responsible task of the new governor of the bank, the future. In his final stages, the governor has credited himself and the National Bank with relatively low inflation levels and a stable course. For everyone else, unfortunately, bad economic indicators are others' faults. A good part of the public and the press supports him in this attitude. Whatever the motives of the governor, this approach is contrary to the logic of the functioning of the economic system and the role of the National Bank as one of its key elements. The primary task of each central bank, and the National Bank is the central bank, is to worry about price stability. However, the central bank's task is to stimulate economic growth, employment, balance of payments, while taking into account price stability. Everything the bank does directly affects these movements. Therefore, the tasks of the National Bank of Serbia are not "a la card", so the bank cannot choose which indicators it wants to be responsible for and which it leaves to others. Price stability, increase in employment, dynamic economic growth and a balanced balance of payments are most often opposed in the short term, so central bank policy sometimes looks like solving the square of the circle. That is why, the trade of central banking is the highlight of the economic profession and the crown of a professional career. This is what I'm bringing into contact with the Prime Minister's statement that the governor should not be an expert and also a biography of the governors we choose today. The first important decision of the governor, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will be to decide whether to continue monetary policy, that is, maintenance so far, in some way a fixed exchange rate. Of course, this policy gives relatively fast results in the price field, so the psychological effect of both the population and the economy is very favourable. Due to the speed of action and favourable psychological effects, politics is easy to accept this approach, and even easier, because bad sequences are left for later, and if there is luck, others. The current concept of monetary policy management has been developed for countries that have a tendency and history of inflationary chaos. It leads to price stability, introduces order and stability in company calculations, focuses on seeking profits through the internal economy, etc. So it seems that these prices are not increasing. Furthermore, it helps to reduce the cost of equipment and repromation, i.e. to reduce productivity. This type of movement in theory neutralises the devastating effect that the course fixation has on the trade balance, interest rates also fall because there is no inflational risk, which further reduces the pressure on prices. The problem with this theory is that, in contact with reality, it's always been denied again and again. Here's another one. Someone named Argentina, an example of Thailand. So the new governor and the Council will probably have a very large, responsible and difficult job to define that one monetary policy, and not to say that since December 2000, when the devaluation was carried out, by the end of June this year, the course has oscillated about 12% of the euro as the target currency. As the euro strengthened against the dollar, the next euro also strengthened by about 12.5%. It's absurd. In the same period, cumulative inflation is about 70%. So the fixed rate couldn't withstand this level of cumulative inflation without acting devastatingly on the trade balance. In theory, a fixed rate can be maintained under the conditions of an increased trade balance. Translated, that means that if there's fresh investment capital, there's still some control that can be done. They repeat that the National Bank must increase its duties to abroad or correct the course; but every delay, it is worse. The result of monetary policy is, of course, an extremely high level of real interest rates. I could still talk about this. The average real interest rate for the first six months is 25%, and 30% is below 2% per year in the US. Again, unfortunately, new officials at the National Bank of Serbia will have to, if they want to be independent, make responsible decisions to bring our economy, which is the goal and that is the purpose of all this we are doing, into a favourable position. Will the new governor get the strength to face these facts? I said all of this in the schizophrenic hope that I was fundamentally wrong and that macroeconomic indicators would by some miracle be changed to the best. For the first time, I'd rather endure the mockery than be right. In that sense, as well as the National Bank of Serbia, I want to believe in a miracle.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33208	The People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33209	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, how important it is to elect a governor, this also shows the presence of our government and MPs. Just from the government came a statement that the governor of the National Bank or the governor of some vault in some state is the largest financial power, that Clinton was waiting 45 minutes to see their governor. That's what Djelic said. However, our future governor, whether Mrs. Widowsky will be elected or not, we don't know, isn't there. There's no minister, no Prime Minister, no one. Now we've got a little talk to do. What we're talking about doesn't matter at all. What's important is what happens. It would be good if we chose someone, when someone was elected, to be present, to say, to reveal the goals, intentions and everything else, as governor or as minister. Five or six days ago, we passed a law that government members couldn't be candidates for governor. Kori Udovicki, and if she resigned, we didn't see it, the new minister wasn't elected, and she will do the duty of Minister of Mining and Energy. Gentlemen, that's what you voted with 116 votes, 12 cards and the folk hero Sava Kovacevic voted from Beijing, and that's how it went. As far as Cory Widowsky is concerned, what do I blame her for? I resent her for keeping the director of NIS unnamed for six months. In fact, Mr Dimitria Vukcevic has been V.D. twice. After that, instead of choosing a new V.d., the new director of NIS, it doesn't matter at all, we haven't had a legal director of NIS in six months. She banned all investments in the oil industry. In electricity, it just showed how much the people of the power union and the oil industry demonstrated. Just some headlines that were in the paper: "signature for the resignation of Minister Udovicki", "radicals seek the shift of Kori Udovicki", "untrusted Kori Udovicki" etc. I have no doubt and I can't doubt her good intentions, maybe the woman has good intentions, probably. Are those intentions fair? From what I hear, he's having discussions that being the governor of the National Bank -- he gets an assignment from the International Fund, he does it, and so do you, and you do it, and you do everything. I don't understand, gentlemen of the DOS, you 177, when you came to power, you swore to the truth, the former president of the Parliament put a cross on honesty and none of it. It is illegal for Dinkic to enter the National Bank of Yugoslavia, with long pipes, and it is mentioned that Shiptar was helping him. Just like Captain Dragan went into customs and took the money. Right, Martian? Did Shiptar enter the National Bank? Yes, it is. How can you now allow us to choose again illegally the governor of the National Bank of Serbia? If that's the way it's supposed to be, so be it, I don't mind. Only one thing I fear is that the one, according to Dinkic -- not to get a warning -- that's 3,000 dinars -- "money launderer" Mihajlovic, with his militia company does not legalize this money laundering.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33210	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and after him, the MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33211	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although we from the SPS were clear about the shift of Mladjan Dinkic, it is now quite clear why Dinkic went so quickly and easily under the ice, because instead of Dinkic coming from Kori Udovici. What's the difference between Dinkic and Kori Udovici? It almost makes no difference. The only difference that Mladjan Dinkic was an IMF feer, and Kori Udovicski is a clean professional, means a clean IMF official. Why are we against it? The IMF always has two concepts. One applies to countries that don't accept everything he dictates. These countries are Slovenia, various Baltic countries, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania. But there is also a corps of these other countries where unfortunately our country Serbia-Montenegro is also located, which accepts everything the IMF has ordered and ordered, and Kori Udovici is just the ideal executioner of all these warrants. It's known to be their concept or, as I'd better say, a raid. It happened in many countries around us. This concept and this policy have several phases. The first stage is to bribe ministers, members of the government, to sell out everything that is worth in this country. That's what happened with us. Whoever took the money, we'll see about that, but it's quite clear that many factories have been sold. I was talking about "Health" Leskovac - for 3.5m euros sold to a factory that only had supplies in drugs and medical materials 10m euros, and where is the rest, where are the commercial buildings, where are the machines, where is the factory, where is everything else? On the other hand, these affairs that appear today are related to government officials, and Kolesar, and Janjusevic. They're accusing Dinkic and Labus. I absolutely trust them, I think they're absolutely right, but, of course, Dinkic and Labus are right. Everyone's right. The fact is, everyone's right. It is now clear again where DOS is located, where there is a complete machine operating in Serbia today. So it's the first stage of that concept. The second stage is the market base of prices, which is the rise in prices in the sky, e.g. Electricity, utility services. Isn't that applied in our country? It's applied. The third stage is so-called. The liberalisation of the capital market where investments are reportedly entering the country, and there is nothing from investments, but everything is followed by bank bankruptcy and the most significant businesses. Is that what happened with us? It happened. The most important banks are liquidated, these state banks and future announcements are, at least when it comes to the World Bank, they say -- we're going to give 80 million dollars, euros, I don't know what, but the condition is that the rest of the state banks are privatized, liquidated in some way. The fourth stage that always occurs is a poverty reduction strategy. The government has been talking about this strategy for six months. So, like in the palm of your hand, it's the same everywhere. This concept has been discussed by many experts and the World Bank and the IMF, as applied in all countries. Here, the Prime Ministers, and the late Djindjic, and Zivkovic and many other ministers said they would never agree to such a concept, such a policy. They all agreed, and it's all like that. What is worst in all of this means that Kori Udovicki needs to carry out IMF tasks, which include some other specific issues, which are key, most important issues of domestic production. Everything that's significantly profitable is going to go out and it's happening today. Reduction of social giving, is that not on Serbia's agenda too? Here, pensions. Today, pensions are the accounting system, imposed by the finance minister and boasted of it, less than the average salary of 60%, and all the prices of all the items are based on the average salary. And, in two years or a year, if DOS survives, there will be a pension and 40% of the average salary. Why? Because there are no original incomes anymore. The Prime Minister said a few weeks ago that we have to decide if we're going to raise 50 billion for pensions or if we're going to set aside for some kind of development fund. They can't make any parallels. It means either we end our pensions or there won't be any development. That's at least a very reckless statement. Elimination of the public sector in the economy, and that happens. Here's the announcement of the restructuring of the NIS EPS. It's the most devastating thing, and it's going to happen with both DOS and a candidate like this, even though she's going to be governor of the National Bank now, but it's known to be her advocate. She's still a valid energy minister. When it comes to Cora Udovici, as a candidate, it is said in an explanation that she was in Mozambique, Bosnia, Zimbabwe, so is that a recommendation, and what a recommendation. One thing is certain, that Kori Udovicki was the most hated minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. You remember her statement, where she talked about how pensioners should sell apartments if they're three-roomed, to pay for electricity. But in some ways, the government thinks they'll kill two birds with one blow. One is Dinkic's shift, and the other one will move Kori Udovici from the post of Energy Minister. But both moves are catastrophic. If it's thought that Cory Widowsky will be provided with some stability, there's nothing to it. The IMF and the World Bank will be here, and stability will be maintained while it is thought that there are still four billion euros or dollars in straws in our population. After that, when it's over, when those few billion are sucked up, we have Argentina's scenario. There have been many MPs talking about it, and I have talked very often about that scenario before. It's a scenario that's being prepared for us, and just to remind you, in Argentina a few months before that economic breakdown or failure, the average salary was $1,000, but the prices for the most elementary services, for the most essential things about eating were $1,500. That's why the crash came. On the other hand, data related to this IMF policy, which Kori Udovici represents, are also known. They used to lend loans to Ecuador. People asked for these loans to be invested in the production, in the purchase of food. They said no, and it has to stay in our vaults, American vaults. The interest was 4%, and for these purposes they had to take 12% loans on an annual basis. So it's our destiny. Kori Udovici is the best proposal for us from the point of view that this government is going down as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33212	The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has the word, followed by MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33213	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs elected still have several of those appointed, but we are waiting for the Constitutional Court of Serbia's ruling to be implemented. We'll wait. We'll wait. When I came here this morning, I didn't even know I was gonna talk. I couldn't even know how to do it or what. What are the suggestions, what are we going to get, how will be explained and written, but I read it, so I listened carefully to the debate, and I can say that this is how a few things surprised me, because it's been happening to us for over a year. We've heard a lot of things so far in the debate. For example, that this proposal itself violates the law that we adopted yesterday, i.e. The other day, on the last day of regular assembly work. It violates Articles 28, 30 and 31. We can talk as much as we want tomorrow whether it's Cory Widow's Minister of Energy or not, but she's still a de facto. We don't have her resignation, we don't have anything, we don't know if she resigned. She gave her biography. I believe she wrote the biography, and then I'll explain on what. When she gave her biography, she could resign so that everything would be within the framework of the law, so as not to violate the law because we place one still official minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia as governor. When she's elected, she'll resign. Okay, but we're breaking the law again. We're picking someone who's a minister. So if we don't choose her, she'll be the minister and still sit in the ministerial chair. It is now and on the moral side a little bit about whether a woman should do a certain job, whether she wants to work or not. On the other hand, we heard from a colleague from New Serbia, who is a member of the Committee on Finance, that he ruled on the vote of the Serb Unity Party, who moved to the Democratic Party, who, according to the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision, could not be an MP, because he replaced some others who were MPs in that first meeting. Now again and on that side, as legitimate or not, it's up to us to decide. It is completely wrong for the Finance Committee to propose a candidate for governor, it should be proposed by the president of the state, and elected by the Assembly by the absolute majority. That's how it is in most normal, civilized, ever-op countries. We advocate to enter the European Union one day. The sooner the better. Unfortunately, these things that are rules in the European Union we don't respect. We from the DSS, who are the only real reformers in Serbia, really want that, but you who are the reformers don't want that. You simply make such legal proposals and such proposals for candidates for governor. I think this is a de facto political issue, that there is not much work here about whether someone meets the professional needs or all that is necessary for the governor of the NBS, because I will remind you that it is the Democratic Party, i.e. Their representatives, who control the rest of the DOS, at the time of the Constitutional Charter, wanted to get hold of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, i.e. through the Constitutional Charter. Then the National Bank of Serbia. It was the first time we heard about Mr Dinkic's shift, which I don't want to defend. I will remind you that he led one, I would say, of all the other most uncivilised campaigns during last year's presidential elections in Serbia, so I have no personal need to defend him as Mladjan Dinkic. Afterwards, I will remind you that one of the first things said by the newly elected Prime Minister, Mr. Zivkovic, is that Mr. Dinkic is a forger, that what he did with 1,000 dinars, a printed coin, with the new sign of the National Bank of Serbia, is the most ordinary forger, and then he had to change it and fix it, like this one with pensions, which was just reminded of fellow Bushetic. I will remind you because you may not know about this information, personally the finance minister here less than a month ago to me, another DSS MP and a couple of DOS MPs, said there are no compromises and talks with Mr Dinkic, because he asked him for 30m euros in short-term credit and that Mr Dinkic refused to give this short-term loan to the government of the Republic of Serbia, that there is no discussion with him, that he has to change and that he will therefore find himself in the procedure and the bill on the National Bank of Serbia and everything else. I therefore argue that this is a political issue, as far as the 30m euros are concerned, I heard two versions: one version that should have been intended to patch up the gaps in the budget, another version because of the Federal Assembly, which did not vote two ratifications of some loans, so that it should have been. In all, Mr Dinkic did not allow that 30m euros in short-term credit to the government of the Republic of Serbia from the reserve. That's where the pumpkin broke, and that's where this whole thing started in a hurry. My opinion is that the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to have a governor under its control because time is running tirelessly, elections are getting closer, it needs to be patched up. Smile you, but you may not believe it, the gentlemen of Novi Sad know, yesterday it was posted by one agency, which they quite believe, that even in Vojvodina the DSS is convincingly the first one, that your rating falls fat. What Mr. Martian said, we can support such a proposal, the worse, in a way, but of course we're not going to act that way. You yourself will suffer the consequences, you need control of foreign reserves in the National Bank of Serbia, in order to eventually, what Slobodan Milosevic was doing, by paying some more regular pensions, you cannot increase them, you have legally reduced them, but at least a more regular payment in order to get some votes in Serbia in the elections, but there is nothing. The people of Serbia can no longer be deceived in this way, so it won't work for you. Unfortunately, once again, the state will have damages because you will also have control over one institution which, unfortunately, has to do with money, and we have seen from the last events concerning Mr Kolesar and Janjusevic, that you do not need much to trust money, or these jobs, you are not sure when you have it in your hands, but then there will be a turn and a bankruptcy law, and then we will talk about "Sartid," and the role of Mr. Kolesar there. He's got everything here. We'll see if it's about Sartid and that money, not Dad and Mom, but about that one. Mrs. Corri Udovici, I said that I would remind myself of that, and I see that she made an effort to write her biography, some of which already reminded her that she worked for the IMF, in some exotic countries like Zimbabwe and Mozambique, that she worked in one less exotic, my native Bosnia and Herzegovina, I see that she also worked in FR Yugoslavia, I assume she's thinking about SR Yugoslavia, since it's about December 2000 to August 2001. The woman probably typed the first part in English, then the second part in Serbian. Note the font, you may not have noticed, it obviously typed with an English font, and immediately afterwards says "the Angazman includes co-ordination of foreign economists". This first part we got Cyrillic, and then the second part we got this way. It's all about her seriousness. You know, there's a lot to learn in small things about how someone looks and behaves. I wish it was Cyrillic. It could have been latinic, but in Serbian, not to use an English alphabet. On the other hand, I really respect her, I see she's a Ph.D. at Yale, but the title is interesting -- "Institutional decentralisation and integration of the Yugoslavia market in 1970-1987." The woman doctored in America by explaining how socialist governance in Yugoslavia works. I don't know if it's a reference to running the National Bank of Serbia, I wouldn't say, so like the other DSS MPs, we can't plead neither against it, because this is an unserious proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33214	The word has been given by MP Stevan Kesjejic, after which MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all experts to experts, and we couldn't expect anything other than to suggest here again some expert. The promoter almost moved me when he presented this advice and a proposal to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I was just thinking if I should ask him to write, here, let me leave it in an amannet, and let someone read me the post-mortem speech. I've been thinking again that it's not good, because it's going to be falsified, and everyone who's present, while I'm lying there on the uniform, they're going to know that everything is as clean as this proposal is, alone, a naked lie. For that reason, I've given up on asking the promoter. Let the priest say he was good, but he was sinful. So, I believe, as well as the SRS parliamentary group, that this is one of the constituencies of the proposal, given the legality of the election of the governor of the National Bank. We have both the governor and the governor today. Few people in the world today have that. It's usually said Minister and Minister, and it's understood what it is. Since they are not related here, we think it would be necessary for the governor to resign and then become governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Then we'd only have a governor, we wouldn't have both. From this proposal's presentation, that Mrs. Kori Udovici has an international experience, this recommendation is quite pointless and inconclusive because it is a highly-educated expert, a highly educated lady, but not in a domain where she should work, because she was an ordinary clerk in all those jobs she did. That would look just like me running for pilot Boeing right now because I've been on a plane 50 times. That's one senseless explanation the motionor gave us here. Finging and fighting between the government and the former governor further confirms that DOS politburo solves everything. When we talk about DOS polytburo, then I have to say, when I say DOS mania, that it associates us with long past times, historical events and tragedies, and the legends of the Serbian people. So I believe that the DOS mania, when they thought about this proposal, probably remembered the Queen Mark and the Villa Ravijojla. Then, of course, you know the consequences, Marko Kraljević died and now you need some lady to turn the citizens around with her charm, appearance, etc. so that the citizens of Serbia become experts, such as the experts of all in the government. And I, of course, am an expert on this matter, and therefore I think that the DOS majority would have to seriously consider the presentation that I have presented as the MP of the SRS, to eventually convince the other MPs, who do not belong to the DOS majority, or to prepare the envelope in time to provide 126 votes. If they do not, then I am convinced that this proposal is also falsified and set up to keep the governor of the National Bank Dinkic and Minister of Energy and Mining Mrs Kori Udovicki. These delusions of the Messengers of the people will not be your first time. So do it, you have everything in your hands, the power is still yours, but not for long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33216	The People's MP Joca Arsic has the word, and after him is the MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33217	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is a time set by Zeljo Huric. Therefore, I won't disturb you long, nor take your time. It's not my fault that you asked for the debate to be extended and that we discuss until the end. My remarks are of principled nature, so I'd say now what they're referring to. Last time, during the debate on the Radio-Difu Council, I warned here about the procedure. I warned this congregation and those who wanted to hear that we would make a mistake by not wanting to postpone all of this for 30 days, so that the information on candidates would be present in public for 30 days, which was a legal obligation. This time we do what we did last time, not the same way, but similar. This time we passed the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, for a reason that assures me that the law was passed only to replace the current Governor Dinkic and to run for his place by various candidates, so since various candidates have given up, the only candidate left is Mrs. Kori Udovicski, who I have absolutely nothing against. But I'm against the way this governor is elected. Article 28 The law is clearly told who can and who can't be governor of the National Bank. I would understand that Mrs. Korri Udovici resigned, that this assembly today, before the debate began, had found that resignation, then Mrs. Kori would no longer be a minister, even if she had interpreted that until the new minister, the old minister, or former minister, was elected. But her function would stop right at the moment of her resignation. This is how we get in, as my colleague, Food Peric, would say, in the hole. We will choose the current minister, if we choose him, if the assembly majority is provided and elected as the legislator and wanted, with more than half of the MPs present, and not how the amendments were proposed to be 126 MPs "yes", i.e. in the way the Government is elected. In my opinion, that was correct. Obviously, it was known in advance that it was a problem. That's why I see the reasons why Mrs. Kori has not resigned as Minister of Mining and Energy. If she is not elected governor today, she will be minister. He can stay as a minister. But if she had resigned as minister without being elected governor, she would not have been a minister, nor would she have been governor. Mladjan Dinkic would remain governor because we did not resolve him. We forgot about the fact that the previous governor needed to be resolved, with an explanation that this congregation did not choose him but was chosen by that congregation, a congregation that no longer exists. The laws that have been passed have been regulated whose powers and responsibilities. It's the jurisdiction of this congregation. So that's how we're supposed to act. I've noticed that one member of the Council has been replaced, it's perfectly normal, because the previous one doesn't meet the conditions. The one who suggested it should have seen it earlier, if he wanted to read it carefully and see when a man was born. However, in the new amended proposal, a young man came, to his credit, who should do the job if we choose him today. But we forgot that another member was 64 years old, that he was elected for three years, if I understood well from this proposal. If I'm wrong, deny me. The member will be 65 years old next year and will stop this condition. So we choose another man who gets in trouble. We didn't take care of that. We didn't see that. For a wonderful miracle, the gentleman I'm talking about signed his biography on June 18, 2003, before the procedure began, before the law entered the procedure, before we knew we'd choose the governor. Check it out, it says "18.06.2003", it's a signed biography that is also a candidate for this place. So, if it's a mistake, if it's supposed to be July, not June, let it be corrected and so written and further. Thank you. I'd just like to say one more thing, that I have no moral right to vote for Cori Udovici, because I signed a proposal for her resignation to the miners. (Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, from the place: Okay, there is resignation, and this is about a choice for governor. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33218	The word has a People's MP Slavoljub Matic, but is not present. The word is given by MP Branislav Blazic, the last registered speaker in a single debate according to the application for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33219	Ladies and gentlemen, today at 35 degrees Celsius, with excess energy, this power is being replaced by the Minister of Energy and Mining. You say you're not replacing the minister, you're setting up a governor. There is another option, and that is to replace Mr Dinkic and set up the governor. The third option is to replace Mr. Dinkic and Mrs. Kori Udovici, and as governor of the National Bank of Serbia, you place the government of Serbia, the International Monetary Fund, or you set up perhaps a DOS politburo. This is the variant in which Serbia loses the most and loses the independence of the National Bank of Serbia. Where do you find all these experts, as you say, white-world experts, who at the same time can be mining ministers, and governors of the National Bank? Was there ever anywhere in the world that the same person could be the Minister of Mining and the Governor of the National Bank? What kind of general practice experts are these? We know that Mrs. Cory Widowsky took a picture with a helmet on her head. Now it's just a question of whether he's going to enter the National Bank with that helmet? Since Mr. Dinkic was able to enter the National Bank with a rifle, perhaps Mrs. Widowsky can enter with a helmet. It is characteristic that you replace a woman just when she started working quality at the Ministry of Mining and Energy and gave some results. She was able to act at the International Monetary Fund to increase by 15% for the price of electricity, which was to be 20% higher. In this way, however, she prevented many people from being cut off by electricity. I have the impression that people in Serbia have started to turn off the power themselves, so its influence doesn't matter at all. Why do people in Serbia need electricity today? It's summer now. It's a long day. It's probably not necessary for light. The important thing is that I think the pensioners listened to her and started selling apartments to pay for the electricity. The state has twice the benefit, on the one hand, the tax for selling these apartments, and on the other hand, the debts for electricity by pensioners are paid. There is something else that may not be so positive, which is that many pensioners, which is an epidemic in Serbia, commit suicide. However, they are happy because they manage to pay for electricity and jump off a terrace or balcony. What's important in some autobiography, written by Mrs. Udovici, is that she worked, that she was a representative of the International Monetary Fund in some countries, and that she solved the problems of the monetary sector in Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Ivory Coast or I don't know all where. It's very important her experience, which she will be able to convey here, because you've led this country to the level of Biafre, so that experience from Africa will be able to transfer here to Serbia. But there's also what I definitely don't think is right, and that's that we haven't seen any Mrs. Cory Widowly's program. Maybe it's time we started choosing programs, not choosing people. Maybe we could learn a lot from that program of hers and figure out, maybe conclude that a woman would be right for that place. Why wasn't that program? How was it held at the meeting of the Finance Committee, how were the meetings of the Finance Committee still to be decided by the candidates? She was already there, and she knew she'd be a candidate. Who's setting these people up? Who chooses them? How do they choose? The important thing is that you will have a situation with the Minister of Mining and the Governor of the National Bank at the same time. When she resigns, she will, by law, carry out the duties of Minister of Mining and Energy until another minister is elected. It is a moment that is absolutely incompatible with the function of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33220	This has exhausted the list of MPs by applying for a single search on decisions to elect governors and the National Bank of Serbia's Council, and since there are no more reports of a word, I ask if they want to speak to the president, representatives or deputy representatives of parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33221	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is how often this happens in this assembly, very often the debate on personal issues is returning to the debate on the institutions that we have previously established by law. But what is important to stress is that we should give recognition to the Committee on Finance, there were many different tones whether the Finance Committee should be the official proposal of the National Bank of Serbia Council, or the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Therefore, in this respect, the Committee has done an extremely high-quality job and the basic principle that the Committee has conducted, in addition to the principles laid down by the National Bank Act, so that the proposed experts in banking areas, i.e. in the area of macroeconomic relations, must be proposed, is also to be people who are impartially oriented. And indeed, if you take a look at the biography of mainly the professors of the university proposed by the Committee of Finance, so Professor Dr. Pavel Petrovic, Professor Bosko Zivkovic, Professor Zoran Popov, Prof. Dr. Dejan Šoškovic, we will see that it is really about people who have not only experience of university character, so scientific experience, but it is about people who have tried themselves and how they have tried it in various international institutions. It is the same case with the proposal of the Finance Committee to elect Dr. Korri Udovicski as governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and we are pleased to realize that when we choose a new governor, or when Mrs. Kori Udovici takes over this duty, we will have a governor who has been the most competent governor of the National Bank in the last 20 years. When we speak and are asked on several occasions a formal question which resolves the previous governor, we must stress that by law on the National Bank we have established a new institution, that this Parliament does not declare the previous institution, or the National Bank of Yugoslavia, as we had under the previous law, but that this Parliament, by adopting the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, has established a new institution in which it is necessary to start to function, or to fulfill its purpose, it is also necessary to establish the basic governing bodies; therefore, the Council of the National Bank of Serbia and the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia. A council that, in addition to its control functions, has extremely significant functions in decision making to the institution and governor who should be a key man. Mrs. Udovicki, as we have pointed out, is one of the most competent governors in the last 20 years, and probably more. It's about a person who graduated from Belgrade, who mastered and doctored Yale, a person who has many comparative experiences and who, as an IMF expert, has dealt with the area of macro-economy and has been involved in the applied area of macro-economy, just in the case of our country, or our region. That is why we can say that it is a person who will do his job in an extremely good way. In this regard, it should be pointed out that Mrs Udovici will certainly preserve that degree of independence and independence as a non-party person, and as such she came to the government, so as an IMF expert, and not as someone who is proposed by any political party, that she will preserve that independence and that she will preserve the stability of our currency in the most competent way possible, i.e. lead the National Bank. The issue of the governor and politics of the National Bank of Serbia, above all in the monetary area, cannot be a personal issue, cannot be brought down to the definition of what kind of person the institution is, but can be a matter of general policy and monetary policy is, above all, conditioned by general policy and without general policy and without the necessary minimum coordination, but the coordination that exists in the nature of things cannot be a normal and healthy macroeconomic policy in one country. And what we've had so far, this currency stability, the lack of inflation, is primarily a political decision, a reflection of the political will never to experience again what we survived as a state in 1993 and Mrs. Udovicsky is one of the guarantees that it will be. It can also ensure that such a policy will be proposed by members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. If we pay attention to how their specializations, i.e. in which way and in which topics they completed graduate studies, defended master's work, but also did doctoral dissertation and published articles, we see that it is people whose competence is strongly founded in their biographies and that it is people who guarantee such competence that the politics of the National Bank of Serbia will be fully consistent and at the level of the best flows of what has been achieved in the past more than two years. When we pay attention to articles and lectures, these experts kept it at various international institutes and different international universities, when we pay attention to the titles of these papers, so, macroeconomic stabilisation, alternative approach, macroeconomic analysis of the Yugoslav economy, when we pay attention to what these people have been working with, we see that it will certainly experience that they have so far had enough to ensure that from the first day on, the National Bank of Serbia starts to function fully in accordance with the National Bank Act, so as an institution that is independent and as an institution that will be able to manage consistently enough, i.e. to be the basic lever of macroeconomic policy in this country. What is unusually important is that these solutions of the Finance Committee are primarily based on expertise, i.e. how much such proposals and such definitions can be decisive in the decision-making and constitution of the core bodies of the National Bank of Serbia. As for Mrs. Udovici, we were able to pay attention and see that she did her job as Minister of Energy in an extremely good way. So, in that sense, it is a person who has shown high responsibility as a professional as a member of the government, who has shown a very good sense of what is a strategic interest, and what is the global interest of our society, and it is such a person, when we support it, and when we press this green light for its choice, we certainly will not regret it. The election for the Council is a choice for a group of people whose, according to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, internship is limited by law; therefore, the President of the Council is elected for five years, one member of the Council for four years, one to three, one to two and one to one member of the Council for one year. This principle that we have introduced in the National Bank Act will allow this council to function in a way that will continuously monitor macroeconomic policy, i.e. the stability of the currency that will be drawn up as a policy and that will not depend on when the political structure is in power. It is unusually important that the mandate of these members exceeds the mandate of the Assembly, or MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is four years old. Their term of office is five years and is a sufficient prerequisite that the National Bank Council will not follow the day-to-day policy, but will safeguard the stability of our currency, i.e. do what is indeed the basic role of the National Bank of Serbia, that is, the National Bank of each country, which is to be the cornerstone of the economy of that state and to be an institution that ensures by its monetary policy that this country is in a healthy economic and economic sense. What we experienced as a state, which we had in 1993, hyperinflation and the problem of hyperinflation, is something that was certainly deeply traumatized by our population and sometimes the echoes of what we had at the time, which were related to personal solutions, exceeded a rational moment in the determination that indeed the National Bank of Serbia, the Governor and the National Bank of Serbia's Council should be those who, under the law, will be able to perform this important duty, regardless of how personal commitment will be, or what names will be chosen, provided that these names are borne by people who are professionally superior and who are independent enough, that they cannot be doubted that they will in a quality way do this job. This combination, defined by the Finance Committee, of senior professionals, and probably the best professionals in this area that Serbia currently has, guarantees that we will have an academic level, since the Council will make up five university professors and that the governor will be someone who doctored at the most important American university and certainly at one of the world's most valuable universities. In addition to this academic level, the stability needed over time during the transition will be ensured, the stability that we need from macroeconomic flows. The constitution of this National Bank is a prerequisite that those economic laws that we will pass in the next period, which concern primarily external trade relations, are bound by those laws that this Parliament has already passed, by hand-deposit laws, mortgage security, lising and laws that involve the relationship of our economic operators, both legal and legal persons and economic operators of an international legal nature. This experience will help to harmonise the rules this parliament should bring to this area. It is absolutely certain that the National Bank of Serbia can have a reliable partner in our parliament. We expect that, in the National Bank itself, we will have a reliable partner, and above all, a partner whose role will be a consultant and a partner who will be responsible for his own independent position, which includes caring for the stability of our currency, is something that is a defining moment in the vote of these two most important bodies that must exist in order for our currency to be as solid as in the previous little over two years. At the same time, this position guarantees that printing money or uncontrollable inflation, as we had in 1993, will not be a mechanism for strengthening economic movements, nor will it be a mechanism for impoverishing the population, ever again. The fact that members of the Council are elected for five years speaks in favour of this institution being the control of institutions, but at the same time an institution that will lead monetary policy in this area. When a next government is elected, these members will remain in the very fact that their mandate exceeds the mandate of the National Assembly MPs, which is four years, because members of the Council have a five-year term and lower. This fact certainly and reliably states that it will be the members of the Council who will be able to carry out this control function, that they will not be condemned to the day-to-day-political reaction and to the reactions that would have been put to effect, or to be forced to do anything other than the interest of the economy itself and the national interest in making the currency stable and to welcome the entry into the European Union in 2007 and the takeover of the euro, as a country that can only contribute to the stability of the European currency, not as a country whose status, or whose currency is problematic. In that sense, the hypnoisation of our regulations with European Union regulations will certainly be followed through the work of the National Bank and through what the National Bank, as a control institution, is doing, and in any case also a control function in relation to the executive power, and the function of helping Parliament identify what is our legislation that we need to adopt in the next period and which we have defined as a key legislation that is linked to the economic needs of our economy. So, we have passed the Law on concessions, the Lising Act, we need to pass a law on external trade arbitration, the law on bankruptcy, we need to amend the company law, and through the application of the Privatisation Act and through a stable market, we can also be a competitive state for foreign investors. That's why all the preconditions we've had so far are necessary. The new structure of courts and, above all, trade courts, which needs the foreign investment to provide, the demand security mechanisms, both the law of publishing and mortgage law, are also mechanisms that allow a major economic effect to be achieved with little investment, as well as through the law on the lease and the laws defined by the agencies, from the Foreign Investment Agency to the Securities Agency. Of course, the law that awaits us, the law on bankruptcy, should make it easier to define more clearly and much faster the difference between companies that can operate healthy and survive on the basis of market law and non-marketable enterprises, and which, through their many years of pasture, in some status as a profit or loss, cannot be chosen under the laws of supply and demand and on the basis of market law to remain on that market as a relevant factor. The National Bank of Serbia is in this sense an institution that provides another mechanism that helps foreign investment to be more certain and extensive. In addition to the legal certainty that is necessary, in addition to the political stability that is also necessary for this to work and for our country to be competitive in foreign investment, a national institution that can in a sufficiently independent and competent way define monetary policy and preserve this monetary policy is needed. It is a mechanism that allows the Government, with a partnership with the National Bank and the Assembly, to realize what our ideals are, and above all external trade ideals. In this regard, we as a coalition give full confidence to this proposal by the Committee on Finance, both the proposal for members of the Council and the proposal for governor of the National Bank of Serbia. We don't need a council or governor following day-to-day political impulses or day-to-day political motives. We need a council and a governor who can, independently, with full authority to make sure our coin is stable, to preserve the independence of this institution. We expect such authority and such independence from this place, as a parliamentary majority, to guarantee the new management team of the National Bank of Serbia. So also to those people, professors who make up this advice, who really represent the intellectual elite, i.e. in the economic field of the most superior brains in Serbia today, and Mrs. Udovici, who has not only proved herself to be our minister, only in function as a minister of energy, where she has shown envious results and one of the results will certainly be the energy law, which this parliament will bring in September of the month, but most importantly in the IMF, and in the field of what we can call the international labour market, or the international brain market. We're grateful that one of those brains is among us today and we're proposing him to be governor of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33222	Does any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, sign up for this agenda item? No, I don't. ) Does the representative, Mr Nenad Bogdanovic, president of the Finance Committee, apply for the closing statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33223	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, we have been talking almost all day on the subject of the election of the governors of the NBS and members of the Council. Of course, I must admit that I expected more talk and that in this debate there would be more attempt to obtain some objective evaluations of the proposed candidates. Instead, we mostly had a chance to listen to some stories. I'm sorry the opposition MPs aren't in the bench right now, because then I might feel a little more comfortable when I have to answer or comment on some of the things we've had to listen to today. I expect the new governor, when we choose him, will explain or maintain one small hour, I don't know in what way, all those MPs who are not clear that one of the governor's basic functions is stability of price. Many talked about it today; as if they understood it, as if they understood it. Since it was obviously not clear to them, because they even disputed as a key function and the role of governors, i.e. that it was a key job for him, I expect that the newly elected governor will be able to adequately explain to them what this is about. I remain with everything I've said, and none of those who have opposed this proposal have disputed it. Both the candidate for governor and the candidates for the Council are people who can be our MPs and us from the Finance Committee, who have assigned this task to this constitutional and legal decision-making constitution to propose, the guarantee that the basic work that the National Bank is to do will be done in the best possible way. Of course, we know that for the work of a single bank, especially the NBS, it is not just enough to select governors and select people in the National Bank Council, but I am convinced that the governor will choose the Vice-Governors in an adequate way, that we will get a working team of people in the National Bank who will absolutely implement everything that is a projected policy, the economic policy of the Serbian country. In fact, those who expect to change in the National Bank will be wrongly wronged to do something epochal in a bad way. It is everyone's political right to challenge the intentions, to challenge the idea, to challenge what most people who decide today on these proposals want to achieve by proposing these very people. We are also people who are always taking responsibility, unlike others, and we are ready for both the professional public and the people to be responsible for what we have always done and what we are going to do today. As far as I'm concerned, I am convinced, given that not one single argument against these proposals has I heard today, that the proposals are real and I am convinced that today we will choose these six people we have proposed, and that the National Bank will do what we all want, and also that Serbia will continue to develop, that reforms are happening the way we planned. There have been wicked comments today. Unfortunately, we have a group of MPs here who are still teaching us, and still, no matter how much we think we've learned, learns that there are no limits as long as there are no bad intentions, incompetence in grading, unculture in communication, can go. Obviously, we'll have to keep learning. We have always thought that there are only some people or some political groups that are like this, and we are increasingly convinced that there are more and more people who behave like that. Of course, it always happens when it comes to impotence, any kind, and this is about political impotence. We need to understand her. I'd like to ask you one more time to pick these candidates who showed up today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33224	I would like to thank the representative, Mr. Nenad Bogdanović. I'm concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions. I'm setting a 15-minute break, when we'll approach the vote. [[After break - 19,25]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to decide on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motions for decisions, we approach the decision. 1. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Kori Udovici. Nine out of 126 MPs voted for 111 against six. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the motion for a decision on the election of governors, Mrs. Korri Udovicki. Let me congratulate Mrs. Corry Widowski on your choice. 2. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, with an amendment of 22 July 2003. For 110, against five, it did not vote 11, a total of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. I would like to inform you that I have accepted the resignation of Dr Kori Udovici as Minister of Mining and Energy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and pursuant to Article 202 paragraph 3. The resignation rules have been notified to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 202(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I find that Dr Kori Udovici resigned as Minister of Mining and Energy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. After considering all the points of the agenda and deciding on them, I conclude the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I ask the MPs to remain present in the hall, as we will be approached by Mrs. Kori Udovicki, the newly elected governor of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33226	Dear Members of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, members of the government and representatives of the media, first to thank you and then to wish you a good day. The adoption of a new Law on the National Bank of Serbia for the first time in Serbia's history has created preconditions for building the NB as an independent and modern state institution. For me, it's a great honor, a huge responsibility, and I must say the biggest professional challenge that I will lead to the construction of that institution in the next five years. These days, like you, I have had the opportunity to hear that the trust of our citizens in the dinar depends on the personality of the new governor. The huge increase in confidence achieved over the past two and a half years has been based on a good deal and on the strength of Mr Dinkic's personal loyalty. I thank Mr Dinkic for his loyalty both as a citizen and as an expert. However, today I would talk about another kind of trust, which is the backbone of modern economic, as well as any other life. It depends on Serbia's future and should not be based on personality and individual. Trust must be based on something stronger and more lasting than individual lives, something that is created and proven through the entanglement of many people and the investment of many lives. They're institutions. The construction of institutions or institutions, according to Slobodan Jovanovic, does not employ one man. They are not the fruit of the thought of a small number of theorists, but the fruit of the experience of countless generations. They were co-operated with both the dead and the living. And that's more dead than alive. I am grateful to the citizens of Serbia who through you, their representatives in the Serbian Parliament, have given me the opportunity to install my efforts in creating an institution that is in the best position to succeed in turning into an institution with such a large "I". The Law on the National Bank of Serbia is not perfect. He leaves room for many questions to work out, but he lays the foundations of the institution that the National Bank should be. First, he sets her up as an independent institution. Secondly, it unequivocally defines the institution's top mission: achieving and maintaining stability and price. Then, he defines as her goal and maintaining financial stability. And finally, under the condition of respect of these top two goals, it requires the NBS to support the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia achieves these goals through the management of the monetary, foreign and other instruments at its disposal. Through these instruments, the National Bank of Serbia determines monetary mass, exchange rate and other financial aggregates. The determination of price stability, believe it or not, is technically not difficult. The simplest words need, firstly, that monetary mass does not at any time exceed the ability of the economy to provide goods, goods that will respond to the demand that this money is running. Let's call it one equation. Secondly, it is necessary to ensure that the exchange reserves move in a sustainable manner at all times. Let's call it another equation. The National Bank can and must be blindly adhered to these principles and thus sets an objective framework at any moment. Let us imagine this as a monetary cloak, which constantly points to the real economy as to whether it fits into the necessary stability. Respect for these principles in the coming period in Serbia, however, will not be easy, as inflation is easily halted, but price stability is difficult to maintain. This is because the technical instruments of the National Bank affect only one side of the equations described. On the other hand, there is a real economy, and the instruments of impact on the real economy in the hands of the government are much harder to move. The National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are also responsible for the success so far. After the initial stabilisation, it is up to the National Bank to continue to hold the measures in place, and the key job becomes the adjustment of the economic structure to that extent. In order to translate the stability achieved into economic growth, further close co-operation of these two institutions responsible for the two sides of the equations described is needed. Stability and growth can only be ensured if there is a profound change in the way Serbian citizens conduct and conduct economic activity. The changes that still have to happen will affect and hurt a lot of people individually, before they produce safe fruit. Therefore, I expect that the pressure, politically, human, that the National Bank of Serbia will only give in a little bit and ease that pain, will be great. I have no illusions. I am deeply convinced that resisting these pressures is the best I can do for Serbia's sake today, especially for the benefit of our children and our grandchildren. Since I returned to Serbia, I have seen a number of honest and principled people, or people who see themselves as such, who refuse to engage in the work of institution building, because they do not believe that the principle that builds institutions with a large "I" is possible in Serbia. If I didn't think honorable institutions and the rule of law could be built in Serbia, I wouldn't be coming back to it. There is no question in Serbia - do you build permanent institutions? They are the issue of Serbia's survival as a social community. The question is just how to build them, and how long is it going to last? Principled people must not be discouraged by the length of the road ahead of us. The more people are convinced that this is possible, the more people are willing to learn their contribution, however small, by their own actions, the more people who are willing to rise above personal or daily, in procedures that are within their domain, the more we will place Serbia as a social community on sound and safe grounds. It is quite possible that I will leave the position of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia under violent political circumstances, even before the end of the term of office. If this happens, I will feel that my work has made sense if the institution on whose forehead I am today continues to work in full composition and if each employee clearly knows and consistently and securely performs his task in the service of maintaining confidence in the stability of the domestic currency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-22-0.u33227	I thank Mrs. Korri Udovicki, and thank you, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, for your attention. This would end our work. The break will probably last until August 26th. Have a good rest and have a good time. Goodbye.
