ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32039	Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 20. A bill that speaks of compensation for damages for unwarranted layoffs. It refers to the role played by the employer and the employee in conducting talks on possible employment and possible damages related to unsuccessful talks, both by the employer and the unemployed person. We believe that this article should be birtic in both attitudes 1 and 2, because it is unnecessary. I mean, not only this member, but many members of this bill are very extensive, incomprehensible, inexplicable and unnecessary. This leads to the situation that in negotiations and talks between an employer and an unemployed person, an unemployed person appears in the role of a person who does not have a special chance. Who will determine the damage caused by the employer, as he says here, without the intention of concluding a work contract or for no particular reason, does not want to conclude a work contract. So, conversations are unnecessary, and possible damage should be determined. The employer is primarily in a more favourable situation than the unemployed person, because he can determine that damage; he has the service, has the organs, has the ability and money, and the unemployed person who comes to work, probably after a long time of waiting for work, is in an indifferent position. For this reason, we find it unnecessary, unnecessarily, and this makes both lawyers and judicial authorities who profit in this way create jobs for themselves, and the unemployed person is totally without any kind of sight that he can possibly compensate for any damage. I think that this member, like many members, is just like that people's, is a rotten grandmother to spend her day. For this reason, this member should simply delete and accept our reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32040	Any of the amendment applicants come forward for a word? Yeah. ) Please, the word is by MP Vladimir Garčević, the authorised representative, the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32041	Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, here in article 20, trying something that floats, something that can't be proved, something that doesn't do anyone any good. What is the objective of this member? In my opinion, the objective of this article is to prove what cannot be proved. Will the tape be used for evidence, will the one who comes to talk be recorded, will the one who comes be able to record it himself, and then will we look for more unprotected witnesses? If We will it all so, We will by the way of judgment, and which judge shall decide, by what proof, and none of this shall be seen. How will someone looking for a job be able to prove that the employer was in a situation - that he was simply talking and not giving up his job? He didn't like it physically, and he estimated that the moment was different, he's looking for a young lady, and he's not looking for a man! How do you think it's possible to prove to this man who meets the conditions that the employer was wrong? If we take another thing, that employers are tied to each other, what's next for that man who's looking for a job, so he doesn't get a job anywhere. So we're putting people in a position to prove something that can't be proved. I think that this member should have deleted or done the criteria in this law; who will determine and in what way someone has wronged that part. I see that this law was supposed to provide protection, first of all, for workers' rights and for those who wait for work. In this article, we have not provided protection or employer, nor anyone who is waiting for work. Therefore, I think that this member should be deleted in general; take the situation to file a court motion: a fee should be paid which you have increased by 12,000 times. How will he who doesn't have a job and who will pay him a fee to run the dispute? Why is it not written that the labour market will provide money for the conduct of the litigation? So we want to fight David and Goliath. My dear comrades, the one looking for a job has no ability to prove anything and this is just something called a farce. There'll be protection, there's time ahead. This one here needs to be deleted, this one to be eliminated from the law, because it can't be proved on any basis!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32042	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. That the other one of the authorized participants wants a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Bratislav Đuric and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović submitted. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic is withdrawing the amendment. The amendment remains in the procedure, as it is submitted in the same text by another authorised promoter. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32043	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22 to delete Article 3. Paragraph 3 reads: "Employment of the position of the 1st member of the National Service, i.e. the Agency performs in the country and abroad". It is therefore a matter of intervening in employment, within the meaning of this law, and intermediation is considered to be business and measures to establish links between persons seeking employment and employers in order to establish a working relationship and conclude a contract to carry out temporary and occasional jobs. This primarily refers to foreign employment. There are two reasons why I think this amendment is acceptable. First, which is already provided for intervention for work abroad in Article 2(6). Therefore, it is not necessary to repeat it in Article 22, and secondly, because I cannot now understand the government's urgency and desire to intervene so much, even if it opens up agencies that will be paid abroad, for our young people to be employed abroad. As I recall three years ago, all the bells were pounded here and talked about how everyone would get a job in Serbia, how honey and milk would flow here, how production would increase. Even one politician said the Germans would be employed here, that all living unemployed from Europe would come to work in Serbia. After three years, suddenly there is a law before us that shows that in an administrative way it is trying to reduce the number of unemployed, which is increasing from day to day. So one story from three years ago about hiring Germans and all the unemployed around the world was obviously a farce and a lie. Unfortunately, young people, in whom so many years ago swore and said it was terrible that they were going abroad from this country, as this country is hopeless, that all Serbia's youth would go away, even more so after three years and fainted in front of the German and US embassies. Now the question arises: why do they go to the new democratic state and the new democratic government in that and so many? And the answer we see through the restrictions of this law which now requires them to finish their colleges, to clean the streets of machine engineers or some other engineers, and doctors to be porters, lawyers to do cleaning jobs. It's all a tragic story of a completely wrong understanding and completely wrong goals or obviously a desire for all college-educated people, academic citizens to go away, and here will be the repeaters.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32044	Any of the other authorised participants come forward for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32045	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all of Chapter II. Article 2 shall be practically discussed. "Employment jobs" and, among other things, intermediation for work abroad. I must admit that in the first reading of this article we somehow crossed attitude 3, because it was unclear whether some agencies that would be established abroad as outcast departments of our National Service were hiding behind it or whether they were these agencies that were privately owned. We've come to the conclusion that these are probably those agencies that, as outcasts abroad, will hire labour from our country. It's nothing controversial, and so far, the labour market has been intervening in foreign employment, but I don't know if there were any such offices abroad. I mean, they're almost certainly not, since it would be very expensive for our country; the law is a restrictive relation to the unemployed and the part about their unemployment rights, and the reason for that is the lack of money, nothing else. If we are in all those countries that have been active in hiring our workforce open agencies or in cities that are so interesting, then it will be a great imposition on our budget and our country, so if we have made a mistake, if that is not the case, then this remark, the argument behind this amendment, does not stand. But whatever it is, we felt for legal -- technical reasons that it is not necessary to repeat in attitude 3 something that is already said in Article 2 and very explicitly -- "an intervention for working abroad". Therefore, there is no need for Article 22 to talk about this again when explaining the concept of mediation. This way, the methodology of the law itself is the same as for all the others that we get from the Serbian government, as if under one hammer they really come out. The only thing we didn't get here is lexicon words and expressions. I guess you had so much in mind that at least we know this problem, so you didn't point us to the use of lexicon or dictionaries. Therefore, for this reason that Article 2 itself is talking about employment mediation and, in particular, foreign employment mediation, there is no need to re-emerge in Article 22(3).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32046	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Išpanovich Istvan. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. Does the applicant of the amendment want to say? No, I don't. ( b) Do the other of the authorized participants want the word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all unemployed persons can participate in a competition for admission to work. However, general health skills is a condition for establishing a working relationship. Over the past 13 years, tens of thousands of young professionals have left the country due to unemployment and war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia. Today, the situation is similar, if not worse, where young people, even those over 30 years of work experience, lose their jobs or are unable to get a job. Article 23 of this law sets out a condition where the candidate cannot participate in the competition, that healthcare is only needed to establish a working relationship. The situation in which our citizens are located, i.e. Unemployed people, people who don't have enough resources to live on, are getting harder. If, in turn, you are not an associate or symaptizer of the ruling party or a random political opponent, hope for the loss of your job. There are countless examples like that. For example, with me in Nis, the top of the ruling party leading this country is from Nis where there are a huge number of unemployed and dissatisfied citizens. The former giants like the Electronic Industry and the Machine Industry are under collapse, where thousands of people don't work or are fired. However, the regime's people have no employment problems, especially members of the Democratic Party or the Democratic Party of Serbia, and even their sympathisers. An example is the village of Cagrovac, the municipality of Gadjin Han, in Nisavski County, where Zoran Zivkovic, prime minister of Serbia, has no person who has not been employed: the head of the Nisko SUP is a pensioner who was replaced by the Socialists, and the reason is the beginning of a high-level in Serbia in 1999 when he banned the opposition's rallyings, the opposition's opposition. At the request of Zoran Zivkovic, he is again retired as SUP chief. The low House of Health and the City Hospital, the municipal administration, are full of people who are either unprofessional or already retired, but since they are people of the regime, they are provided with a job. Unfortunately, such a practice continues, and as long as it lasts, it is God who knows, or what we Serbian radicals like to say - each start has its end. Otherwise, about the status of some members of the SRS in this House, so am I, I don't want to talk this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32048	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32049	I don't know what the idea of the promoter was, when in Article 23 of the Employment Intervention Procedure, paragraph 2 stated that the National Service could, if there is a suspicion of the health capacity to refer the unemployed to a health test. It's practically inconclusive, and it's something that can't even be tolerated or accepted that any of us tomorrow if they run out of work, go to the counter, and there's a counterworker telling him, you don't look very healthy or you're not the cleanest, let's go to the doctor. I can't understand at all how you thought it would be done, especially when you have to take medical assurances when you're employed if you have a general medical ability to have a partial health care ability, and if you're disabled, you can also get a job with reduced working ability and you get medical assurance where it all fits nicely. So it's a condition for establishing a working relationship, it can't be a condition to report to the National Service, to compete or participate in the competition. I participate in the competition, I'm not medically capable, and they say, "I'm sorry, ma'am, we don't need such frustrated ones, we need some healthier and younger ones or what I know; pregnancy can be a reason for a lot of things." How's the National Service going to do and why she's going to do it, because this is extremely humiliating for the unemployed who did it, lost his job, came to be interested, if there are any open jobs, and then there's a counterworker telling him -- go back and get health assurance that you're capable of working. It would be nice if you told us, in the explanation you didn't say that, and we didn't even get the government's answer on our amendments, so we don't know why some amendments don't go along, because if we did, it would be even easier for us to make arguments or to give arguments to your arguments. This leaves one naked legal norm that we can interpret one way or another, and it's up to you to tell us what you really wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32050	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 24th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Bratislav Đurić and joint MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markoivić, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić, Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic and Ana Tasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, the MPs together submitted their corrections: Toma Busetic, Radojko Petrovic, Miomir Ilic, Joca Arsic, Golub Rajic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32051	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in front of the SPS parliamentary group with fellow Members of the People's Parliament on 25th, I have submitted an amendment, with a correction, where we have proposed that the words "who exercise the right to material security under the law be deleted in this article". Article 25 lays down the right of an unemployed person to provide material security, social assistance, to claim compensation for sending applications and transport which the National Service shall make up for in accordance with the general acts. We suggest that this be deleted because this provision is discriminatory. It grants funds to cover costs, applications and transport only to the unemployed who exercise the right to material security, while the rest of the unemployed who are otherwise in an even more difficult material situation do not have that right. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, as did the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government's justification for not accepting this amendment is to take Article 25. The bill provides for the protection of the unemployed who are in the most difficult material situation, which are unemployed in a state of social need, who exercise the right to material security in accordance with the Social Security and Social Security Act; where this is the right, on the basis of whom the right to have persons exercising the right to material security, persons or families who have no income or less income from minimum social security benefits. In this way, the National Service covers the costs of these unemployed. We believe that if this amendment were adopted, the number of users would expand, because there are unemployed who are in an even more difficult position, and the right to social assistance is not enjoyed and where the means to cover the costs, to send applications and to pay for transportation would be welcome. I suggest that you accept this amendment in Voting Day and make this very restrictive law at least slightly improved by unemployed people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32052	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Toma Busetic, an authorised representative of the SPS group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted this amendment, we believe that this article is 25 discriminatory and that all rights guaranteed for persons who exercise the right to material security should be enjoyed and remain unemployed. After all, it is very small costs, these are costs, above all to cover sending employment applications and these are public transport costs to discuss employment with employers. Given that this service or the Ministry for this year will make about six billion dinars of income on the basis of contributions, when it comes to original revenues, that the Republic budget provides for about five billion donations, these are very significant funds, and that part of the donations should belong to this ministry and thus be concluded by this mosaic -- that all the unemployed persons are exercising this right. For example, in the Pomorava County of 25,000 unemployed, this right to material security results in only 1,000 people. So it's a small number. I understand what the ministry wants, but this is discrimination, because every unemployed person is in a very difficult financial and material position. The minister can tell us, and to me here in some way, it shows that these revenues don't come true. Of course, revenue through these original contributions, the original revenues are getting smaller and smaller. Why? Because there are fewer and fewer employees, and the contributions are primarily made through employee earnings. The smaller the number of persons employed in Serbia, the smaller the contributions and fewer the funds, and when it comes to the Health Insurance Fund, the Pension Insurance Fund, and of course, when it comes to this ministry or the labour market. I think that if the fact that these are small means is seen, I think it could be accepted and that the motionary, the Prime Minister, accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32054	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) - Proposal to amend the title above Article 26. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic and Ana Tasic together submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the title over Article 26. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted this amendment. The word is by MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32055	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Party of Serbian Unity has submitted an amendment to subtitle 11 and to Article 26 in the same text, and we ask that the proposed text in the draft employment law, which reads: "Meditation in employment abroad", be replaced by the text: "Meditation for work abroad". Let me remind you that in Article 2 you, as a legislator, in point 6 of point 1 of the law, exactly when it comes to employment jobs, have written "an intervention for work abroad". Therefore, this is just a termological alignment with what you have proposed in Article 2 of point 6 of the bill, and I think if you want to respect what you have proposed, to be consistent with the terms you use in the law, you would have to accept the amendment in subtitle 11 and the amendments in Article 26. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32056	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic and Ana Tasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. Amendment applicants don't want a word. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Golub Rajic and Nebojsa Jovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32057	Dear Presidency, MPs, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, my colleague, Golub Rajic, and I have submitted an amendment to Article 27. Proposal for a law on employment and insurance in case of unemployment. We suggest that Article 27 reads: "The costs of intervention of the National Employment Service abroad are borne by an employer if it is a foreign person. The funds that the National Service achieves in this way are placed in programmes that create conditions for the creation of new jobs." The law establishes employment institutions other than existing ones; the Republic Labour Market Office grows into the National Employment Service; as well as the possibility of opening private agencies, which would carry out employment and their services would be free of charge. In the law, a special chapter is dedicated to the active employment policy -- bringing programmes and employees will be financed from the Republic's budget. Article 27 speaks of the fee for the intervention in the employment of the unemployed; the intervention is carried out by the agency with the compensation of the employer. The costs of the intervention of the National Service and the agency on employment abroad shall be borne by the employer. We propose that the costs of intervention abroad be borne by the employer, but only if it is a foreign person, and that if the employment abroad is through the agency and the National Service, it is requested by an employer registered in our country and is also our taxpayer, that he does not bear the costs of intervention, because he makes out of his means of paying fiscal obligations in favour of the Republic budget, in particular the payment of unemployment contributions, in this way and often in financing the work of the National Service, so we consider that the employer is not paying the costs of the intervention when he is employed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32058	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been issued by MP Toma Busetic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS has proposed to amend this member by adding two more new positions, primarily for the costs of intervening national employment services abroad to be borne by an employer if he is a foreign person. I think it is clear our intention, and, of course, in this second part of it, we specify how this money should be spent and we suggest that the funds that the National Service accomplishes in this way are placed in programmes that create conditions for the creation of new jobs. When it comes to domestic employers, unemployed persons, our employers abroad, the intervention of the National Service should be free of charge. That's how it's always been, and now it's supposed to be. All interventions should be carried out in the interests of unemployed persons and in the interests of employers. We do not dispute the possibility that the employment service does not generate revenue, but only in the case of a foreign employer abroad. We used to have these conventions with both Germany and Austria and Switzerland and bilateral agreements with foreign employers. We remember business in the area of construction, plantations. Foreign employers paid services to our labour market office. I think it's clear our message why we should do this like this. On the other hand, we have suggested that this last view be deleted, which says that employment services not set out in this law can be carried out by the National Service with the compensation determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What are the special services, which the National Service can perform with the compensation determined by the Government under this law. If this attitude were to remain, these services would have to be defined in a way that is precise and clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32060	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27, aman was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club, I have tabled an amendment to Article 27. Proposal for a law on employment and insurance in case of unemployment, to delete section 2 and 4. The aim of this amendment is to equalise employees with the unemployed. After the five-October revolution, many crisis headquarters in factories changed their leaders and brought in members of the previous government who were dissidents or engaged in various illicit criminal activities. Their goal was and remained the same, to continue in the same style they had done before, to stop production and to stop with the same goal that you're going to, so that every company is privatized. Instead of starting some new economic projects to start the economy, now these people who are employed in factories, in companies, have lost their pay, because they have no job, and are forced to seek employment and work on the other side. That is why they must be even with the unemployed, that is, agencies or bureaus dealing with job-seeking must also work for them without compensation. Here, in this law, in Article 5, but the same goes on and on Article 27, peasants can't ask for a job through these agencies. But, you see, today the village is affected by a major elemental disaster, and you know that rural households are more numerous and numerous, and I'm afraid there aren't many peasants in this year who will be left without income to support their families, and they will be forced to look for jobs by companies, or they will be forced to ask for the services of these agencies, and in order for those agencies to find a job for them they have to bear these costs. So I say once again that the minister should accept this amendment of mine, or he would have to. As regards the 4th position in the field of employment which has not been established by this law, the National Service may carry out the compensation established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Government). Once again, they want to form some services that are not provided for by this law and which are again the condition of some kind of malfeasance, the purchase of jobs. I still think the minister will accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32062	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32063	Article 27 of the esteemed colleague has been regulated as to who is obliged to reimburse the costs of the National Employment Intervention Service; paragraph 1 clearly states that this is the employer's obligation. We already have an exception in the second position that when an employee seeks employment, he must bear the costs of mediation. I don't believe that these are some big costs, but for reasons that everyone has to be treated equally in all rights and obligations, we think that employees can't be in a more unfavourable position if they're looking for a change of profession, because they can also ask for a change of occupation because they don't do the right job or work that doesn't comply with their expertise, so here they're in a more unfavourable position than unemployment. So we asked to delete Section 2; and in Section 4, there is something that should not possibly stand for "services from the field of employment which are not set out in this law" - what are the services that are not set out in this law? The national service can perform with compensation, which is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia." Not only is it disputed that the Government can determine the amount of compensation if it has entrusted something to the National Service and if that National Service is responsible for it, if it is approved by the Executive Authority all that this National Service is doing, then it is unnecessary for the Government to now interfere with the work of the National Agency and determine that compensation. But one far more important question is asked - what is it that is not contained in Article 2 and this National Service can do? In our opinion, the National Service cannot provide any service which has not been established by this law. If you felt there was anything else to put her in charge, then it should have been contained in Article 2. And this wide-ranging provision, where the National Service can appear here and as some profitable service, is simply unacceptable. So we don't know what's behind the fact that the National Agency can do some jobs that aren't set out in this law. That would be illegal business. Because this law is also passed because it is clearly and decadently said what the job of the National Agency is. All she doesn't write here is the basis for her existence and her work and everything she doesn't write here she can't do. Therefore, there is nothing more natural. This amendment has a full justification for eradicating the 4th or some change that the Government may have made after seeing this amendment and react. This is how it feels that everything the National Service does that isn't regulated by this law will be an illegal business.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32064	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you are, the word has the People's MP, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32065	I'd remind you again to create normal conditions, to provide the speaker with water; I think your colleague has an aversion to water, but probably you don't. Article 28. The SRS asks to be deleted for the simple reason why it is pointless and only serves to belittle those people who are in a difficult situation anyway, without work and with no means to live. Your counseling and your workshops, just remember how the students who went and trained in those workshops of yours went through. It was actually some sexy shopping, so there were various affairs and abuses with children that you allegedly trained and prepared for Europe. One such member, perhaps, was inspired by a personal example, Mr. Minister?- I'm sorry. He didn't seem to have anyone to advise you that you belong among the miners and yesterday among your trade unions, that you're banging a bottle there, not to take the place of the minister that was intended for someone with a slightly higher quality and ability to lead this important ministry. This member will only distract citizens that, as a citizen without a job, he does not know which job is appropriate to him and what is acceptable to him and what he is capable of. Probably no machine locksmith will show up and compete to work as an electrician on an electric pole and be electrocuted. Each of them is able to set a job for himself, and that you advise him, even though through all education from primary to secondary school he has guidance and knows his abilities during schooling and he defines himself and schools for a certain kind of profession. The addition of some seminars, some workshops, I don't know what you don't call them all, it's just a waste of time and a waste of people's money. Of these seminars of yours, counselling, the only benefits are those who organize -- they take money, and we don't get any jobs from it. I'd just like to warn the minister. Mr. Minister, I come from southern Serbia, where there is a very problematic situation regarding both employment and extreme behaviour of Albanians! The most recent information, you can bring it to the government and someone to deal with it, because this is not a party issue, this is a national issue -- the Bujanovac People's Army, Presevo, Medvedja, has gathered through their donors, drug dealers, taxes and imposes 56m euros and will buy all the factories in Bujanovac and Presevo at the most recent time. About this, Ministers Djelic and Vlahovic and Deputy Prime Minister Covic met on Thursday in Bujanovac. They will buy all the factories and all Serbs will be fired on the same day. Let someone in the government deal with it -- the government as a state interest to buy these factories and be the majority owner, so tomorrow we don't get into a situation to run out of one factory in southern Serbia, then we'll be late. He has the right to protect his interests, which are of strategic importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32066	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Đura Lazic and others. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32067	The Honored Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, a group of MPs from the SPS tabled an amendment to Article 28. With this amendment, we want to delete Article 28(2)'s position and we think it's justifiable. We feel that it is unnecessary and that it shows the full surface of the legislator. Since it's attitude one. The proposal for this law laid down in Article 10 of the already applicable Employment Act, the Proposer, with the desire to change anything, gave Article 2. So, nothing new in attitude two just to get something done, to get something new in. That's right, I'm going to quote the position of Article 28, which says: "By consulting on the choice of profession, in the sense of this law, it is considered to help children, young people, unemployed and employees, individually or grouply, in choosing or changing professions, or jobs, in education, in additional education and training and professional rehabilitation." This is Article 2 in my opinion unnecessary, in addition to Article 1 which is literally copied from Article 10 of the current law and which says: "By professional orientation, within the meaning of this law, it is considered professional counselling, information, selection and qualifications to assist an unemployed and other interested person in the choice of profession and employment". It's a totally complete attitude and a member of the law, it all contains. In response to our amendment, you said: "The professional orientation and counselling on the selection of professions are two different institutes, so it is necessary to define the law. Advising on the choice of profession is not the same as professional counseling. The right to this kind of counselling, besides the unemployed, has other interested persons, especially young people in the selection of interest in high school and college." You're right, it's detached. However, your ministry and this institution, the so far unemployed employment agency, has an obligation to take care of the unemployed, to hire the unemployed. It's quite another counselling of children, founders and high school students, about choosing professions and moving forward through life. That's two completely different things. It's enough for this institution to deal with the problem of the unemployed and leave the children behind. They've had enough "happiness" to do this with Mr. Gaš Knezevic, so they're wandering from school to school, and they can't get into school, so when some of Dad's kids couldn't pass the qualification exams, they had to organize another additional qualification exam to allow them to enroll in the schools they wanted! (President: three minutes. That's why I think it's too much for you to take care of your children. Enough to worry about the children of this ministry who made them happy. You take care of the unemployed, and take care of the children of the proper ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32068	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32069	Ladies and gentlemen, this law on employment and unemployment insurance is very important, because it defines the rights and obligations of the unemployed, who, unfortunately, are growing more and more in this country. For the last two and a half years, how much DOS is in power in Serbia, the number of unemployed is growing from day to day, and the production is dropping from day to day!- I'm sorry. Of course, the complete government is responsible for this, and Mr Milovanovic, as Minister of Labour and Employment, plays a role. I would like him to answer a specific question here today -- what is his role in importing an engine from Bulgaria for the needs of IMT, when the same engines produce and IMR in Rakovica? Why not take the engines from Rakovica, but over 1,000 engines have been imported from Bulgaria; Mr. Milovanovic is a member of the Management Board or chairman of the IMT Management Board. Also, tendering here for certain jobs goes mainly to foreign firms; and so they are set up, set up, that jobs do not get domestic businesses, but foreign businesses. Either it doesn't take care of the interests of domestic producers and businesses, so even for the little difference offered by a foreign company, it gives a job to a foreigner, or the conditions of the tender take place so that our companies can't technically meet them, so that business can go to foreigners again. I just want to say that this government doesn't care about domestic economy and domestic businesses, and it's all about not getting jobs from our businesses, it's about foreigners. As regards the amendment to Article 31, it concerns the programme and measures of active employment policy. First of all, to tell you the truth, I'm not sure I know what an active employment policy is and what a different policy is, so there's some passive employment policy. I don't know what effects this active employment policy is going to have and what all the consequences are going to come out of it. The amendment of the SRS to this article refers to Article 1, which reads: "The government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Employment (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry), brings an active employment policy programme, with the previous opinion of the Social-Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the words "with the previously obtained opinion of the Social-Economic Council" should be thrown out. It's an opinion, and it shouldn't be in the law. So the law doesn't stop, it doesn't limit either the ministry or the government. With whom she will consult in the adoption of the programme, it is the ministry's free will, or government, and should not stand here under the obligation to give an opinion. (President: three minutes. ) Also, in the same article in paragraph 5, I suggest that points 3 and 4 be deleted. In fact, it says here that this programme of active employment measures should particularly contain, so point 3 says "employment of refugees and displaced persons" and point 4) "employment of ethnic minorities with a more pronounced unemployment rate". I believe that this has already been discriminated against and that this is recognised as having so far been discrimination in employment, and Article 8 of the same law speaks of the equality of all, regardless of ethnic, religious, etc. belonging, as well as the Constitution guarantees in terms of employment, as well as in other... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... and general and special conditions to be met. Therefore, there is no need for this to stand in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32070	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president, SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32071	Chapter III refers to the adoption and communication of the programme and the measure of active employment policy. In accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. We asked the 31st amendment to delete the words "with the previously obtained opinion of the Social-Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia", not because we believe that the Ministry and the Minister should not cooperate with this council, if they have already established it with some of their acts, can the minister advise whoever they want and should be advised to collect opinions and views, to consult science and statistics and whoever they want. It is not good that one legal norm states that the minister should, with the previous opinion of the Social-Economic Council, which is now being put into play here above the ministry and the minister. Perhaps in some other way it could have been said, with a consultation or mandatory with a previous consultation, or something like that, but it is not good to stand as it stands, because it devalues the government itself and the minister as a member of the government, which is the highest and the head of the state authority. We believe, in addition to the whole member talking about territorial autonomy and local self-government bringing in their own programme, and these programmes have to be in line with the government's programme, the programme has to contain, and according to the items listed here, there are 10 items. We don't mind either of these, with the view that pure demagogy is really what is at point 3) and 4), because, above all, under the same conditions and under our Constitution and under this law, every job is available if, of course, it meets these conditions. I don't know why here (point 4) of Section 5.), members of ethnic minorities with a higher unemployment rate. Today, the unemployment rate in Serbia is so high, so if we do that now, we count on ethnicity as much as it is and where it will take us. Employment of refugees and displaced persons, also in a certain way, discriminates against people who belong to these categories, so we felt that, given that Article 8 has been regulated, it is entirely excessive that in Article 31 of these items concerning what the programme should contain, that we should avoid these divisions and practically, the recognition that so far there was such a thing, and I know that there really was no such thing. You know, every employer is allowed to choose who they hire... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. So, who's he going to hire, and the law itself protects those who are looking for a job so they can claim compensation or challenge all that if they feel they've been discriminated against.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32072	Does anyone else sign up for a word from authorized participants? No, I don't. ) Article 31. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. I have asked written representatives and president of the parliamentary group to deliver to me who is the authorised representative of the amendment's applicants, when it is a group of MPs. I ask the parliamentary group, since there is now a deputy, to deliver to me who he is, and in this case MP Milos Lukic is in the group and I will give him my word, but for each of the next amendments, please list. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32073	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, a group of Soviet MPs has tabled an amendment to Article 31, where we propose that item 5, point 4 be deleted. It is in fact the following: point 4 of this article provides that the active employment policy programmes set out priorities, measures and means for the employment of ethnic minorities, where the unemployment rate is more pronounced. In this way, the principle declared in Article 8 of this Act is directly violated, guaranteeing employment and equal availability in employment, equality in the employment process, independent of race, skin colour, nationality, ethnic origin, language, religion, etc. It's clear what this is all about. I think this expression -- ethnic minorities, because we have national minorities and ethnic communities, is also one of the reasons. On the other hand, we do not have that mechanism, if this is already positive discrimination, that mechanism of positive discrimination against the Serb population living in territories where the majority of the population is of another national minority or ethnic community. Therefore, we consider such a law regarding employment and one practical thing, that it is too politicised and too burdened with some concepts that are not the place in this law. On the other hand, we should bear in mind that the draft constitution is in progress, which will regulate these terms more precisely. We still don't know, we haven't decided whether under the Constitution there will be national minorities, ethnic communities, so how will these names enter into the very text of the Constitution. Using these names in this way in one of these laws, we find it inappropriate, and in particular we believe that, both in content and in shape, this item 4 should not be contained in Article 31. I hope the minister has this in mind and accepts this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32074	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 31. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Djura Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32075	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the SPS, and along with fellow MP Djur Lazic, I have submitted an amendment to article 31 of this law. The member says that, on a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Employment, the government submits an active employment policy programme for the Republic. The same article further states, which are the main priorities that the employment programme should contain, and among other things in point 4 of point 5, is that the priority employment of ethnic minorities with a higher unemployment rate is said to be. We SPS MPs think it is okay to take priority care of the employment of ethnic minorities, with a higher unemployment rate, but to take into account the same number of children per family. In the first sense, we have also submitted an amendment to supplement this provision. The justification for the submission of the amendments will be best seen in the case of the south of Serbia and the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac. It is true that there is a high degree of unemployment there and that this is more pronounced in the citizens of Albanian nationality. However, we cannot ignore the fact that Albanian families have incomparably more children than families of Serbian nationality. The Serbian nationality families have an average of two children, while Albanian families have over six. Should the government's comparison now give priority to Albanian families to employ four and five children and one from Serbia? Where is equality and justice? What are these measures of democratic policy and country development strategies? Should this be a clear message that the Serb population should move from that area? It is surprising and unreasonable that the government's argument that the amendment should not be accepted, because it would be discrimination and would be contrary to international conventions. If further explanations have been made, it can be seen that, without the amendments, discrimination against the Serb population would be possible, rather than Albanian, which is minorityly viewed as Serbia as a whole, as a state. I think it is quite fair and that this is in line with international conventions for the amendment to be adopted and that when setting priorities for the employment of ethnic minorities, where the rate of unemployment is more pronounced, it is considered as one of the criteria and approximately the same number of children per family. I think it is reasonable and in line with all international standards that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32076	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 32nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, there has been a clear discrimination against the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, given that we have not received a report from the government, and the minister has not been able to escape, sitting as a mummy since the start of the debate in particular, and in a report found now by counterpart Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, there is no opinion of the government on the amendments of the SRS parliamentary group. So now you, Minister Milovanovic, when I finish my presentation, will come out and say what you think about this amendment and so continue in order until the end. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: You will tell him what he will do. ( ) As for the lady behind you, some are so smart that five minutes of their brain I would rest sweetly. Therefore, since I have much more serious work to do, I have to convince you that the law is not right for you, so listen carefully to what I'm about to tell you about Article 32. Article 32 regulates something that should not be regulated at all in this way and in the whole of the law, which is written as a textbook that we have received long ago, is a pre-normised regulation and a predominant role of the government is expressed. It is completely unnecessary for you, Minister Milovanovic, this article in 32, because at the beginning of the law you have formed something called the National Employment Service - it is illogical and groundless that the authorities of local self-government, and at the head of local self-government in Serbia, and especially in the Zlatibor County there are various miracles, it is illogical that the authorities of territorial autonomy, as well as local self-government for the conduct of the positions of the 2nd member of this law, question a public call for supply of offers. It's really not clear what kind of offer it is. If you are a member of 31st, which is essentially justified and what should be done by the executive authority and this national service, you have identified what measures are to encourage employment policy, then it is illogical what the role of local self-government, autonomous province and what does the Government have to do with these offers, if you already have the National Service. You see, what characterizes the overall situation is indeed a dramatic situation in the labour market and self-proclaimed principles in Article 31. The basic question, which you will soon have to solve, is this wave of dissatisfaction that will now follow the miners, I guarantee you, from the center of the forest, from Kragujevac; the question of the flag, your false promises for those who are on the so-called. The WHO and especially the fact that you haven't taken care of more than 500 disabled workers, because there is no protection workshop in Kragujevac. If you don't have a lot worse time, you've been through with a few punches and bruises, but the Kragujevci are in a much worse situation now, they don't have people eating bread, you see, you handle it, because you won't be coming to us there on your feet, there will be workers in Belgrade like Kori Udovicki, and then it'll be very dangerous for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32078	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32079	My colleagues, I've been promising lunch for three days who can make Mrs. Comic laugh. Here, Natasha did it now, and I have to take her to lunch. Article 32, with the reasons the government gives in the law itself, is a contradictory argument, so it is absolutely unclear. The reasons would suggest that the National Service has a perfect organisation of work and trained whenever it is trained to implement a employment programme, and the Agency must do so on the basis of the call for tenders called out, since it does not have a place to which it is not trained. However, Article 32 contains something completely different. The programmes are brought by the National Service, Territorial Autonomy and local self-government. They must agree with each other, and point 3 states that the Government, or the competent authority of territorial autonomy and local self-government for the implementation of these tasks, or for the adoption of the programme, calls for tenders. From who? What kind of service are these now? Some private agencies, I don't even know who could offer a employment programme that would be in line with the government's programme, and why it's supposed to be, why local self-government can't do it alone, with the help of this national service. Now someone third, outside of this private agency, outside of local self-government, outside the National Service, is building some kind of employment program. What's that mind? Where's she focused? "The government, i.e. the competent authority of territorial autonomy and local self-government, is calling for tenders from Article 2 of this article." I really don't know what you mean. Maybe it could have been said simpler, and this way you didn't at least explain what it was and what it was about. Besides being completely confusing, I think it's too high. In addition, it is known who needs to bring in the programme, that the one at local level and at the level of territorial autonomy must comply with the national and government programme, and who will adopt it can be regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government. After all, there is certainly a local self-government jurisdiction in this area as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32080	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Lukic and others submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. In the name of the applicants, the word has been given by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32081	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of MPs of the Serbian Unity Party have submitted an amendment to Article 33, where we propose that a new point 3 be added after point 2), which would read as "the means of granting the Agency's work permit" and point 3) become point 4). In Article 76, paragraph 8. The proposal for a law is proposed to be used for active employment measures by means of compensation for issuing the Agency's work permit. It is logical, therefore, that, if it is already written in Article 76, paragraphs 7 and 8 practically regulates this part, that it is transmitted to Article 33. In this way, we come to the conclusion that unless there is a number of methods of funding and this one way that is referred to in Article 76 can be misused. Namely, if those funds are already meant for this, it should say so. On the other hand, maybe we should perform differently when defending these amendments. In fact, the government has made a statement, and we have given a large number of amendments and most of them are acceptable to everyone here and perhaps we should stop talking to the minister with a proposal that he accepts these amendments, and more MPs read what we have proposed and accept these amendments in the voting day. In fact, when it comes to active employment policy, we have recently quite an increase in the number of employees, especially in the security of these MPs who go from one group to another, so their apartments, homes, drive and drive, so that the active employment policy is in place and the government should be very commended for this kind of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32082	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rada Bajić and Dusan Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32083	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the People's MPs, is a section on the adoption and implementation of programmes and measures for active employment policy, and Article 33 also talks about the means to be collected, from where they are collected. Among other things, programmes are said to be financed from: the budget of the Republic of Serbia; funding of territorial autonomy and local self-government; and, funds of gifts, donations, interest, legislation, etc. Then he says they're being financed from the National Service's contribution. We propose to add point 4) where it is said that funding of the programme is also being made out of the revenues obtained by the National Service by providing services to employers and others, because it is most logical that the revenue paid, i.e. from the provision of services to the employer, should focus that income on the employment policy, i.e. the implementation of the programme, because nothing more logical than that the funds are based on the implementation of the programme; which should be realised. I think that the government, or the minister, should have accepted it, because it is certainly in the Parliament's voting day that the MPs will not know what it refers to, for whatever reason, and I think it is perfectly acceptable for this amendment to be accepted. I am in favour of what my previous colleague said, Mr Lukic, that MPs should be addressed because it is a necessary amendment when they are submitted and I really don't see any reason not to accept it. One of the amendments that the SPS has submitted to this law is this one, and I think it should really be accepted in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32084	Is anyone else answering for word from the authorized participants? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vlatko Sekulovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. National MPs Sreten Mitrovica and Dragan Jovanovic submitted together to the 34th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is there anyone else? Yeah. ) National MP Toma Busetic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32085	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is no minister, there is no minister involved in the debate, but at least he listened, he has been there so far, so I always like to talk when he's here, but there are his associates. This is about the following, when it comes to our amendment to Article 34 on encouraging new employment: this is about the employer having the right and being able to achieve certain subsidies when it comes to hiring people who are of a surplus interest, when it comes to those who wait longer, meaning, for more than two years, when it comes to those who can find any employment, and these subsidies mainly relate to or relate precisely to 12 months of payment of compulsory social insurance. The following positions (this member) also refer to persons who are over 50 years of life, where these subsidies have been slightly increased for up to 18 months; they again refer to payment or subsidies or compulsory social security. Our first remark is that the proposal "can achieve" cannot stand. What does it mean, "he can make it happen"? Who and how will decide who will achieve these subsidies? If we look at some experience back a few years, it can be employers who are close to the authorities and most likely so. On the other hand, the law prescribes a certain right, not a possibility. I think our proposal, regarding these changes in all of these attitudes, wherever it says "he can achieve," should stand -- "he does" or as it says in the current law -- "he has the right". These are the real provisions, simply, it's a fact now, and I don't know how the government's representatives are going to decide on this amendment. This is also in some way an opportunity to remind ourselves of how it was until 2000, at the time of the dictatorial and non-democratic authorities, how good the programmes were in this area: that the employers who employed the trainees had absolute compensation for the funds and for their salaries, and it seems to me that there was about 80% of the average salary in the Republic; that they had paid contributions, for taxes, and on the other hand those employers who allowed the trainees to work indefinitely, they had these donations, both for salaries and for income and for insurance.... (President: three minutes. Well, I've got more, ma'am, since I don't, I've got six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32086	National MP, you have three minutes at your disposal as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32087	That's right, three plus three, so six minutes, but I'm not gonna use...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32088	You don't have any plus three minutes. The amendments are submitted by MPs Sreten Mitrovica and Dragan Jovanovic, and Sreten Mitrovica has been designated as the authorised representative of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32089	Mrs. Comic, so far it's not like that, now that you think it's just one more sentence. Please, this right at the time of 2000, at the time of 1998 and 1999 and the time of war, that right has reached about 50,000 people and these rights are now significant... (President: Four minutes. ....................................................................................................... if you look at these rights offered through this Ministry and the National Service...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32090	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32091	Here, the SRS parliamentary group would like to support this amendment, because otherwise we're used to getting from the promoters, or from the government of this standard where there's an alternative, i.e. There's a possibility. As soon as there's a possibility, it's good soil for some abuses, and we don't think that's good and this needs to be erased. So it can't stand - "it can make a subsidy". You may have thought, perhaps the employer won't ask for a subsidy. Maybe he doesn't need it, so you left him out of it to ask the National Service or to give it up. But if you mean it, it's not good for him to stand up like this. Anyway, the amendment is really justified. In this way, it would mean safety for an employer who employs someone with a surplus profession or whose profession there is no or little need. He would know in advance that he was released from paying these 12 months' worth of contributions. If it stands "can," then it means that someone in the National Service will assess whether that particular firm, or whether or not the employer, should do so. Once again, we advise the Government to accept this amendment, and the MPs to decide in the voting day in that direction. The amendment has excuses, and as far as we're concerned, it would be good for someone to leave the government once, or the minister to tell us why some of these amendments will not accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32092	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Vladimir Garcevic, the authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32093	I think this amendment has a basis. Teached by the experience that anything that can not, everything that should depend on a person's goodwill, should be eliminated by legal frameworks. Therefore, an individual must not be allowed to decide these matters on the ground. The law must be clear. If there's anything to be done, then you say he's right about that. You can't see from this the basis of law. Teached by experience, both in schools and in the workplace, where it says "can," "can," there's nothing there. You succumb to the will, which is the worst thing you do to party will. For one who's a member of yours can't, and for another, he can't. Please avoid it as a power, but that the fundamental rights that have been guaranteed by law, and then gone, is not a good will but a legal basis. Everything that is good will, and today is hired without schoolwork on the ground, taught how work relations are based, what is hired, if you don't see it, I see it on the ground, therefore, regulate the law, there's nothing "can." If you've estimated that "can," then it should be "have." So he's "right" to it, and the man he's looking for, then he goes and realizes he's "right". From this "can," when you apply, "we'll see." What do you want him to do? To sue, there's no basis, because it doesn't say there is. So no one can make it happen. Good will remains. I ask you to avoid in these laws the part that will have repercusions to party employment bureaus tomorrow, etc., no matter who is in power. To be clear, if the government thinks he's right, it's not "can," it's "have."
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32094	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Bratislav Đuric. The government accepted this amendment by proposing a legal-technical order of the amendments. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic and Ana Tasic together submitted the 36th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32095	National MP Išpanovich Istvan submitted an amendment proposing that Article 36a be added after article 36a. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by Members of the People Rajko Bralic and Joca Arsic. The representatives of the proposings and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted this amendment. Is there an application for a word? The word has been made by MP Joca Arsic, the applicant for the amendment to Article 37. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32096	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Rajko Baralic and I submitted an amendment to Article 37 on behalf of the SPS with a proposal to delete Article 37, Section 3, 4 and 5. We believe that this is too high to stand in this article: the definition of professional training, requalification and prequalification should not be found here, but should be regulated by a special regulation. It is common in the law and in the legal acts of the definition of certain concepts to be ahead and to continue in the text and normising in the law to explain the concepts of what they mean and what they refer to. Here is the definition of these three concepts put into Article 37. One of the reasons, as I said, is that they should be found at the beginning, and the other reason I think it is essential and closer to the need for these terms of professional training, requalification and requalification to be found in the Regulation and regulation to regulate and what professional training is, what is retraining and what is a prequalification, and what is a prequalification, in our view it is too high to find this part in this Article 37, and for these reasons we have submitted this amendment. We think it's too high to stand in this article and wipe it off. Nothing changes essentially, doesn't change the law, doesn't change the essence, doesn't change the concept of the law, and we think there's enough reason to accept it, and if there's a need for this, it's regulated by the rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32097	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic and Ana Tasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32098	When it comes to the amendment to Article 37, the chairman said they didn't accept it. I don't think they've read this amendment. In fact, this is about one correction that makes a lot of sense, because Article 37 of Article 3 says: "Requalification, in the sense of this law, is considered to be a change of interest so far, which provides new knowledge and skills to theoretical and practical training, for working in the same or lower degree of expertise." Our intervention consists of "providing new knowledge and skills" instead of "providing new knowledge and skills", it should "provide the acquisition of new knowledge and skills". In fact, it cannot be guaranteed in advance that someone by accessing retraining will be trained. There is a possibility, an opportunity to acquire these knowledge is provided, but it is not guaranteed that anyone who accepts that requalification will succeed. In fact, again, it might be better if the MPs read this and thought about it, so that in the Voting Day, we can vote to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32099	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32100	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs on behalf of SPS counterpart Dragan Jovanovic and I have submitted an amendment proposing to amend Article 38(3) and to read: "The costs of additional education and training organised by the National Service at the request of the employer, as well as the costs of additional education and training for the marketing of work carried by the National Service, in accordance with the general act of the National Service and the programme of education and training". The draft law of Article 38, which regulates the area of additional education and training, states that the costs of additional education and training organised by the National Service shall be borne by the employer at the request of the employer. We suggest that these costs be borne by the National Service, because we believe that the employer should not bear these costs. It is enough that it wants to create new jobs, because otherwise it raises the question of what the role and importance of the employment service is. The important measure of this law is the training of the unemployed where their working qualities are raised, thus their territorial, somewhat professional mobility. The training process of the unemployed may be carried out at the request of the employer and for the labour market. The experience of a transition economy suggests that it is extremely important for this process to be as close to employers and their real needs. All requalification programmes organised without the ultimate specific participation of the employer rarely lead to the mass employment of these workers. Only employers can determine how many workers they need and what qualifications they need. But the question arises - without further investment, developing existing companies and creating new companies and new jobs, there is no employment, and this is about the key problem of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32101	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here's a word from MP Toma Busetic, the mandated representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so colleague Jovic mostly said everything about this amendment of ours. We simply believe that when it comes to additional education and training that all costs should be borne by the National Service. Otherwise, I really don't see what the purpose of the National Service is. I'll give you a specific example. For example, a cobbler wants to receive a hundred workers who are a surplus profession, who can hardly be employed, such as textiles, or some other number of professions. So it's essential for the National Service to bear the costs of prequalification, requalification, professional training. Since the privatisation process in Serbia has already moved far away and it is obvious that here will be privatised literally everything, we really do not see how and how many unemployed from large systems will find a job from large companies, if this is not provided. And it is obvious that some perspectives are precisely those small and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises that will receive between 50 and 100 workers. Otherwise, all these distractions, which were also in the previous article, related to professional training, requalification, will not mean anything. How the workers of the cable factories will be employed - 3,000 will be out of work very quickly. The workers of Cementara, 1,500 people, the subsidiary measures of the landlady, have run out of work; of course, they allegedly got some money but that doesn't mean anything because the boss wouldn't give either 15,000 or 20,000 marks on the plain that he doesn't have a big interest. Its great interest is, and those with that money, with that 15,000 or 20,000 marks, literally, hardly have any business to run, simply that money, by my information, has already been spent, someone bought a car, some room, and now they're already on white bread, and they're not going to find any jobs. Here, that's one of our suggestions, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32103	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Here's a word from MP Vladimir Garčević, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32104	Let me say hello to the president after she arrived. We suggested that in Article 38, paragraph 5 be deleted and here's why. We believe that St. 1, 2, 3 and 4 is covered by everything that should be covered by training, retraining, prequalification, prequalification, etc. One basic question arises - what is the role of the agency in training processes? And so far, we've had stock exchanges, and there we've had representatives who've been working on jobs in the institutions so far, and today we call it the labour market, so there's been retraining, retraining, and it's not a newspaper for the labour market. Therefore, if the National Service has a representative, one or more, who is in contact with institutions, and above all with education, then I propose at the request of employers or firms, or individuals, that training be carried out according to this and that programme for this activity. What does that mean? Which is the agency now that's above it. Is the employer crazy, if he is now doing business through the agency, to pay if it is said in point 4. that the National Service can bear the costs of additional education and training for the needs of the employer in accordance with the General Act of the National Service. I hope the employer doesn't care that much, they're not so generous as to give money. The employer won't give up his dinar so easily if he has options. And if it's the interest of the service to hire, which it is, it's her role, then I don't see the reason the employer's agency is going to get to train his people. Who is this agency? What kind of experts are they? Does that mean I can start an agency and show up at a competition to train people? We don't need middlemen. The labour market service has so far had opportunities in contact with certain institutions, which are qualified for that part of the job, to perform requalification, qualification and job creation. Only if we want a new administration now, if we want to hire those we didn't hire and we had to, then some other government will come and shut down that agency. Where's that going?- I'm sorry. If the National Service is humanely strong with one representative, it can organize training. So I think this part should be deleted and everything (up) in these four positions is covered. We're missing the agency and the agency. The agencies did wonders. The Privatisation Agency hired and is located in the province, counselors who could not graduate from high school but were therefore on a course in America for two or three months. Please, are those agency experts? Please, what I'm saying is true, and if I have to, I can name it. So what's this about? National Service - train her, provide her with personnel and she will do this job without any agency, in direct contact with institutions capable of providing additional education, what the employer needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32105	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. Do you want a word? Here you go. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32106	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, after a series of passed laws relating to workers' rights (the Labour Act, the Privatisation Act, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, etc.).), now this law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment comes as a silk gait for workers. As a result, the SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 42, which is closely linked to Article 31, which refers to self-employment. I think it's completely unnecessary in this law. I, to be clear, will have to apply this argument, so that it is clear to those who have passed these previous laws and who will vote for this law. In fact, listening to all these demonstrations and justifiable dissatisfaction of citizens these days, I heard yesterday, among other things, that they were yelling "Dragans, Mustafo" and I didn't know why it seemed. But last night, I was thinking a little bit, and it was clear to me. Namely, the former union leader, the current minister associated with that: when Milos Obilić broke into the tent of Emperor Murat, Milos Obilić asks -- "Milan, what are you doing here," he says, "I am not Milan anymore, I am Mustafa now and I have a silk gaitan". For these reasons, I consider workers to be justifiably negligent. There were other adjectives there. As for this member I submitted the amendment to, I don't think it has anything to do with it, but what I've just said about the minister and the union leader and in the previous 1389 history case, it absolutely has something to do with it. That's why I think business centres, then, agencies, in fact, are a place to hire a smaller number of workers, mostly DOS supporters. For a huge group of workers who are going to lose their jobs, they do not need agencies and centres to help them, especially in terms of employment. They are, you see, ready to organize and bring down the government, let alone find themselves a job. Therefore, I find it unnecessary for a member of 42 to have the assistance of a business centre in accordance with this law, since workers do not need centres and agencies, they need a job. So they need to be able to work and make money.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32107	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? Please, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32108	This amendment was explained by my colleague Kesejić, and I could only add that Article 42(2) provides for the rights that the unemployed can achieve if they are self-employed, that we have provided for the existence of a "business centre" as an organisational unit, I suppose, or the organisational service of the National Service, and in this way we have entered into the decision-making and work of the National Service, because it determines by its statute what all organisational units have. We can't impose a legal obligation on her to have some organisational units within the National Service exist. So it is undeniable that if this "business centre" exists in the National Service, it is available to all and that they can use its services, especially if this is not some benefit. As we have the opportunity to seek advice from certain services on professional orientation or notice of opportunities and conditions for employment, so those who are self-employed will use the help of this "business centre" if they exist. However, it is too high that Article 42 states that, in particular in point 2, points 1, 2) and (3), they are determined to have the right to cash compensation, on subsidies. All of this is materially reflected in an unemployed person who, in this way, resolves his working-law status and has the right, of course, to additional education and training, as well as any other, if he wishes. I think you've been going too far and we've entered the right to decide the National Service, how she's going to have her own internal organization. In our view, it is too high, and that is why we have submitted this amendment, which I believe can absolutely be accepted without touching the rights of the unemployed who, in this way, resolve their working-law status.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32109	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. The mandated representative is MP Milos Lukic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word has been given by MP Milos Lukic, an authorised representative of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32110	The amendment of a group of SSJ MPs to Article 44 is, in fact, just one provision in item 1, which reads: "If the beneficiary of the funds referred to in Article 43 of this Act is not able to use funds or funds for purposeless use, and if within 60 days it does not deliver evidence of the intended use of funds, it is required to return the amount of one-off cash compensation, increased" etc. The Soviet Union, or a group of MPs, has suggested that there be further precision here and that it be said "in 60 days from the date of the conclusion of the contract". In fact, this formulation was also used in Article 43, where it is said "the beneficiary of the funds is obliged to provide, within 60 days of the date of conclusion of the contract, proof of the intended use of the contract to the National Service" etc. This wording "in 60 days", can actually confuse -- whether it is 60 days from the knowledge, whether 60 days from when a competent authority has determined that the funds have been unintendedly determined, etc. So the rules of law are to be exacted. It could have even avoided this excessive formulation here and simply called on Article 43(4) and said "in the time limit laid down in Article 43(4).". In any case, we believe that this amendment does not offend anyone, particularly it does not offend the Government and the Committee, who have not accepted, and I repeat again, have not read this amendment. I appeal to the MPs to adopt this amendment on Vote Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32111	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Do you want a word? Here you go. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is the current situation on Serbia's political and economic scene, I am free to say that I fear this law will not be for the successful recovery of employment or employment. This will be one law that will cause enormous damage to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I call it the law on non-employment. Those who are employed will be exposed to major problems and major pressures from the current authorities, because first of all we hear there are now about a thousand inspectors who need to control the work on black. If that's true, so many inspectors need to control the work on black, so the workers are black-written. Therefore, we think personally, as the Proposer suggested in Article 45 that: "The Minister responsible for Labour and Employment (hereinafter referred to as the Minister) should be closer to regulating the way and procedure for the exercise of the right to grant, as well as the level of the subsidy", that this should be in the power of the Government and that the Government regulates such relations by means of its act, and not to leave it to one resolution, or minister, the current one, who submitted this proposal on behalf of the Government. As a result, we believe that the situation in relation to employment is very difficult, workers will find themselves mostly even more unemployed, because even those who have currently found employment with private persons will now be on the street, because the inspections will now be controlled, there will be no fees to be paid, as much as prescribed. So, no employment, no production, no investment in improving and expanding the work process. I therefore believe that this amendment has been tabled in order to affect the changes and improvement of this text, and, on the other hand, to withdraw this bill. You saw that yesterday, Serbian magistrate Zivanovic spoke of some streets becoming our walking sites and pointed out that it would be in most cities. There are great protests about people being unemployed. There's no work. Therefore, gentlemen, work conditions need to be ensured, the process of production expanded, funds invested in factories, and not now -- now private citizens will finance themselves. How many of those are in Serbia who will be able to finance themselves and open up shops, businesses... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... 'Cause we know all that well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32113	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32114	Article 45 was left to the Minister responsible for employment and employment, with the authority to regulate the way and procedure for the exercise of the right to grant, as well as the amount of the subsidy. The SRS believes that sublaws should be passed by the government and that this should be in the government's jurisdiction. In this regard, we have submitted a proposal to regulate the way and procedure for the exercise of the right to grant, as well as the amount of subsidy provided for in Article 42(2) of this Act by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We think that this is a better solution, given that the Government is bringing in a employment programme, that the National Agency is implementing this programme, if you have not already left it with the possibility that it can determine its own way and process of exercising that right. It may be better this way, given that the government of the Republic of Serbia has the government of Serbia for the implementation of the programme and for the employment policy, and then it is quite logical that the Government of the Republic of Serbia also adopts acts to regulate the way and procedure for the exercise of rights. So it would be a sublegal act compared to this law that determines an area closer and we see no reason not to accept it and to keep this in the power of the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32115	No more logins for the word on this amendment. On Article 45. The amendment was brought together by the MPs of Ljubisa Maravić and others. Here's a word from MP Ljubisa Maravić, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32116	Dear fellow MPs, Mr Minister, a group of SPS MPs submitted an amendment to Article 45 with a proposal to say, "The Minister in charge of Labour and Employment" replaces the words "National Service with his acts". It is our argument and the proposal that this is a more adequate solution - that subsidies, i.e. other rights under Article 42 of this Law, are closer regulated by its acts by the National Service than the proposed solution in Article 45, where the minister is expected to regulate the way and procedure for the exercise of these rights. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this solution: it explains that the active employment policy programmes set out in Article 31(5). The draft laws shall finance from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other funds set out in Article 33. It's a bill of law. Given that the amendments have been submitted to these members by MPs, colleagues from the Soviet Union, the SRS and the SPS, I believe there are opportunities to improve some things in the voting day. It is known, however, that the most significant operational operations in the area of financing and other legal transactions, are carried out by competent authorities, such as in the area of health - the Republic Institute for Wood Protection, and in the area of PIO -Republic Institute for PIO and in the area of employment, presently, the Republic Labour Market Office. Therefore, there is no reason for this procedure to also exercise the right to grant transfers and transfer to the Secretary-General. The minister should deal with significant affairs, policy-making, implementation, and not individual acts. That's why we're proposing that these jobs be arranged by the National Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32117	Please, there is a People's MP Toma Busetic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you heard our proposal, and the minister heard it. We find it unnecessary for the minister to decide on the right to grant. Simply, these are sort of jobs that belong more to the authorities of the National Service. On the other hand, given that Minister Milovanovic is the chairman of the National Service Management Board, it will again be his task. The only reason why we could, in some way, accept this to be the responsibility of Minister Milovanovic, is because it is a much worse solution to be decided by the Director of the Republic Employment Service Svetozar Krstic, a man who has been in all the authorities; in the last year, this man is known for the fact that all workers need to be organised by the labour market, so that employers are ordered to choose these workers for jobs. He recommended that those wearing white socks on black shoes would have no chance of hiring. This solution with the minister is not a good solution. A colleague explained more recently, when it comes to the authorities and organisations in the area of compulsory social security, the sum of these businesses, when it comes to health care, is being carried out by the Republic Health Insurance Office, and in the case of pension and disability insurance operations, and mainly by the Republic Pension Insurance Office. Ministers are mostly figures, and when it comes to the labour market, this job should be left to the National Service or the Republic Labour Market Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32119	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title above the 46th and member be deleted. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32120	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party MPs' club, on a proposal for a law on employment and unemployment insurance, I have submitted an amendment so that the title above article 46 is deleted. The explanation of why it is required to delete this title and article 46 is that it is unnecessary to lay down organisational services within the National Services by law. Otherwise, the amendment itself deals with the subject - a business centre, which reads: "The National Service organises a business centre for self-employment assistance, in line with the General Act of the National Service". A man hires himself, and then, let the National Service or some business center give him, like, some help! I don't know what kind of help it is, whether it'll give him the assurance that he's employed or solved, some reward or premium. Instead of saying that self-employment of this business centre through some loans, it will speed up some programs to get as much self-employment as possible through the lending of these privates and entrepreneurs, and here it says that it will provide assistance to the self-employed. One of the nebuloses that stands and therefore this proposal is to delete the article 46 and the title above the article 46 of this proposal. Otherwise, the reason for the adoption of this law states that, among other things, an affirmation of the active employment policy and the activation of the employment market is being carried out. Employment seekers, as well as the establishment of an economically realistic and socially adequate unemployment insurance system, are the conditions for the adoption of this law. This law is passed because those who have lost their jobs would also be removed from the burden, from the back of the state, by having a condition after nine months: or a job they determine or on the street. Thus, through the application of this law, the government will be able to free one large number of citizens who have remained unemployed and who will not have to worry about it; and what is the worst of such unemployed and social and health insurance, so that in Serbia, after the application of this law, there will probably be many social cases, although even today with this non-national government, there are many, and in perspective this figure will probably be doubled.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32121	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32122	As a consequence of the amendments to Article 42 that we have already explained, and where the concept of a business centre first appears, we have submitted an amendment to Article 46, asking to delete the title above this member and the whole member, for the same reasons, because we do not feel that we should, by law, prejudge the organisational units of the National Service that have been given here in jurisdiction, a clearly defined competence that the business centre provides assistance in employment in accordance with the General Act of the National Service. General acts shall be adopted by the Management Board. What if there is no National Service in that general act, because it is the responsibility of the Management Board to decide on it. So, we said in advance -- you have to have a employment help centre that's going to be called a business center, just for this activity. Article 46 is contrary to Article 64, and for this reason we have submitted an amendment that I believe can be accepted, especially as this business centre is, as you have imagined by law itself - that the unemployed will receive the necessary training in starting their own work, legal and economic professional assistance, adequate self-employment programs and other types of support, a dead letter on paper, if we have in mind how many employees receive a year's work experience at the time they remain unemployed, and I assume that they are the most concerned; it counts that they will be able to start a new job from these funds. So this is some list of beautiful desires, imagined so that someone who has money, and doesn't know, has no idea what he might be doing, comes into this center, so there's an interest in whether there are any programs in which he might be involved. There aren't many of them. There's a lot of ideas. Each of us and every unemployed would certainly know what to do, what is profitable, and what is not, just lacks investment, or just lacks money to start it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32123	There is no more application for word on this amendment. Members of the 46th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs: together Branislav Ivković and others: together Milan Jankovic and others, as well as the MP Išpanovic Istvan. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32124	We have suggested that Article 46 be deleted, because we believe that the National Service should organise its work organisation and needs depending on the territory and the place. The Management Board shall appoint if the selection of directors of the National Service, i.e. the labour market, is organised, they shall be sufficient to assess in each environment what needs to be organised. It's said here that a business aid center is being organised. Does that mean - new officers and whether it's similar to the current so-called so-called. "business plan", which you launched; it's charged if you want help, so eventually through that part comes a big profit, and the question is what can be done. What is it that someone can do right now? I don't see what kind of service he can work in when it's all stopped. Therefore, offering something today to do without favourable loans, with 30,000-40,000 that the labour market will give or 100,000 help, does not open any drive with it. Whoever had the money and got to them, whether legally or illegally, he had already opened his drives. Now those who are out of a job with 100,000, 200,000 or 300,000 severances, there's no way they're gonna open the deal. You say in stories - let them organize, let them join together and make part of the company, or joint venture. What is it that can be found in the labour markets as offered to do today? What is it that the professional service, in any place, has offered at this point to do, and gives it profitable. Until a certain large industry takes place that can absorb smaller businesses, even to home workshops, there is no perspective. Since it's all stopped, there's no way to start that part of self-employment at the store. No production, no creation of new products, no sales of these products, no progress to the industry in this country, no progress in employment either. What is the situation now, no service can help until a strategy on the development and industrial progress of this country is made at the government level, and only then can the services market continue to advance. I'm afraid it's going to be like the Privatisation Agency, who couldn't finish school, go abroad or finish high school so he's doing the privatisation of big firms and we're getting into a situation that has to give a piece of... I would ask the minister one specific question: what is the role of Isaac and the Serbian government in involving athletes in the independent, I don't know which union, it doesn't matter where you from the Serbian government appear as negotiators.? Isn't that the wrong role of the Serbian government? Anyway, he's the vice president, if he were here, I'd ask him to give me an answer, but send him to hear it, you want unions under command -- he won't be able to, the workers will see what's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32125	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. Here you go. The word is made by MP Milan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the SPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the draft law on employment and unemployment insurance, where it proposes that Article 46 be deleted. The Employment Service, or as modernly called the National Service by the nature of its work, is obliged to provide assistance to the unemployed and employers for free of charge. We consider it unnecessary to form some business centers, perhaps modern and modern, but it is obvious that it will serve to take care of unsettled DOS personnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32127	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, the authorised representative of the SPS on this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32128	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Minister Milovanovic, just once to report to all these proposals, business centres, clubs, agencies. We have suggested that all these provisions, these titles, be deleted, that these organizations do not exist, neither from the agency nor from the clubs nor from the business centres. Today, unemployment reaches 30% in Serbia, or the unemployment rate reaches 30 per cent, Minister Milovanovic. In Argentina, with 20% unemployment, there was chaos. Don't you realize that the situation in Serbia is alarming, and there are no more explanations that were understandable. It's sanctions, wars, it's all imposed, for no reason whatsoever, cause or reason to come to power. Those were about your reasons, so that they would do with us whatever they wanted. Yesterday, a Democratic Party MP told one truth about the price of electricity. He says Labus and Dinkic have made a commitment that the electricity price should be 15% higher and must be implemented. I trust MP Marinkovic, Labus and Dinkic are IMF commissioners and they have to implement every decision possible, that is a fact. The fact is that the current government, DOS government, is a prisoner of that concept and that policy, and that IMF policy, here, is working here today. What are the basic provisions of this policy? Shutting down domestic production, it's all shut down today. Here, and "Merima" will shut down, they've fired 1,500 and many other factories at the cement factory already. So, domestic production can't exist. And in Jagodina cable factory, experts come and say -- you can't increase production. The production needs to be even smaller. That's the policy, that concept. Secondly, the reduction of social benefits, it's here in your laws, in all laws, "limits, restrictions" and cash benefits and what was the Labour Act, annual vacations, payments, anything less. The third thing, also very important, the elimination of the public sector in the economy, is this with the EPS. I talked to this Geric this morning, we spoke very correctly, and he doesn't believe that concept is in effect. That's how it's gonna be, unloading, breaking and selling. It's here too. So, get out of these business centers, clubs, agencies, it won't bring anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32129	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above Articles 47 and 47 be deleted. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32130	We have asked this amendment to delete this member for several reasons: the first reason is formally legal and legal-technical nature. It must not in one law in the form of a norm to prescribe something that is an organisational structure of something formed by law, because practically, a job-seeking club becomes a legal category and legal obligation. It would be the same as if the law prescribed that the Law on Electrical Affairs, the EPS should have a machine shop in the mine, it needs firemen, it must have railways, security services, etc. The law cannot go into the organisational structure of something, which I do not want to open up the topic, but the promoter specifically and incorrectly states when he talks about the National Service as a special form of social security organisation. There are some reasons, compared to the PIO funds, in relation to health insurance funds, when it comes above all to the National Service, but I don't talk about it. Where's the mistake? In the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation, opinions, views, conventions, it is written to educate people who seek employment, how in the most effective way to ensure that their right does not mean that we have to put it into the law and prescribe it as some kind of organisational form. We can only state in the law, if a service is formed, which are business in the work of the service and of course, to define the issues of funds, both inflows and use of these funds. This is where you put in as a special legal norm of a job-seeking club, and now you see one aspurd, if you look at article 51, where you talk about public works. It also states that public works are possible in areas of activity: social, humanitarian, cultural. In a job-seeking club, unemployed actors could engage and train them to provide an effective fee, as some filmmaking will be public work. So the theatre performance becomes a work of public work. It's about a container. This amendment should be adopted for one simple reason why this amendment draws attention to Article 4. A bill of law, where you gave the wrong definition of unemployed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32131	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs submitted to the 47th amendment: together Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević and together Radojko Petrovic, Milan Jankovic, Joca Arsic, Đura Lazić and Ljubisa Maravic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Is there a word report? The word is by MP Djura Lazic, on behalf of MPs of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32132	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, and the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group thinks that Article 47 should be deleted from this bill, because we believe that the required obligation to organise clubs for job-seeking is just a new distraction of the unemployed, nothing will serve except an increase in the administration, and at a time when hundreds of thousands of people are out of work. It's a disaster, antisocial law, the Law of Labour that you've passed, the Law of Privatization, that has led to terrible consequences -- hundreds of thousands of workers who are out of work. This antisocial system of laws you try to use this article to somehow insert, to cover, however, this antisocial policy cannot be solved by any member. It's a difficult fate for hundreds of thousands of unemployed people. Here, let me ask you what this means, in the position of 2nd of this Article 47? I'll quote him, "Employed at a job-seeking club, "gets knowledge, skills and job-seeking skills." Don't say that. This kind of formulation goes nowhere, and it's practically inconclusive this role of these clubs to look for a job. How many clubs you're going to need to look for a job in the National Service, when it comes to solving the fate of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of unemployed people. If you stay and you have to play that role in schools, how many clubs like this are you going to need. Isn't this a new increase in the administration and an additional burden on the budget?- I'm sorry. It's not right! If nothing else, we should accept our amendment to Article 28 to delete Article 2. This article 47 is deleted because it does not correspond to what is intended. The essence is much more serious and much more difficult. You explained that the unemployed in the job-seeking clubs would get all the information they needed on free jobs. All kinds of education on how to look for work, expert advice, as well as the possibility of presenting its knowledge and ability to the employer. So you should be unemployed at a particular club, a place to take a test in front of employers. It's practically inconclusive. The workers will turn out to be some sort of slave for sale in front of the employers, and the employer will decide who they will receive. We're in a difficult situation, and I don't think that's possible. Your labour law... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... You have left tens of thousands of workers from the economy of Kosovo and Metohija without a job, without the right to compensation, and this law further eliminates these workers of opportunity to make some compensation to survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32133	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32134	Dear colleagues, we really believe that this provision is completely excessive, regardless of what the promoter has told us that in comparative legal practice it exists and that it has proved to be the most effective programme of active employment policy. But if we start from what these clubs do, and that they have professionals working in them, constantly employed in the National Service, the unemployed need to acquire some skills and skills to look for work. I don't really know what those skills are now. What are those teachers going to teach us? To tell you that the skirt must be two fingers below the knee or above the knee, makeup must be inconspicuous, for men, let's say, a tie mandatory, when it appears in the employer, should not be a broad smile, but a mild smile, to radiate with optimism, a safe step. Make sure you copy the employer. If he gestures with his hands, gesture with you, and in this way he will recognize himself and you will be acceptable to him. We're really making a farce out of this, distracting and humiliating the unemployed. Everyone behaves according to their education, education. I don't believe anyone goes looking for a job without wanting to introduce themselves in the best light. And now some extra education by some that I don't know on what basis will have some certificate that they are able to educate us, which profiles of interest will be. It's obvious that it exists somewhere. Well, come on now, "a frog's foot to cook, too, since she saw a horse lift it up." Don't do that! When we write a law we should first know where we are, what we are, what we want, not to make a farce out of it, because nothing means one norm less or more, but this contributes to the inconclusion of the law itself, and for that reason we have asked for that provision to be erased -- and it would be good for the minister to speak a word on these amendments, to tell us why he can't, why, and to stand at least behind his law, if anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32135	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bratislav Đurić and joint MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić, Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic and Ana Tasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has not delivered an opinion. Parliamentarians Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Have there been any reports of this amendment? The word has been issued by MP Vladimir Garcevic, the mandated representatives of the SNS parliamentary group and the representative of the amendment's applicants, so it is time to present six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32136	The member is told that the unemployed who, by means of the National Service or by other means, gets a job outside the place of residence can, for who knows which time -- can, exercise the right to one-time cash assistance for travel expenses and moving costs. The basic question arises when - "can" will be achieved. What does "can" depend on? Whether any regulation or acts of the National Service will regulate equal rights for all or "can" be treated according to will: for me - "can", for another - "cannot". So everything that is under - "can" is put into a situation to put the unemployed in an unequal position. We'll get some judgments to get a job in the place of residence, two of them asking, one of which we'll approve, and the other one won't. This raises the basic question: if it were said here that the National Service would determine the criteria for who can achieve that right, I would accept it because these criteria are equal for anyone who gets a job. Well, I guess people here need to fight, MPs, to give all citizens equal conditions in looking for a job. But it seems that when a man is in power, then one is in opposition, then another is in opposition, so when the roles change again, the one who is in opposition will complain about the one who is in power. I think the following should be done here: that it is clearly and decadently said to be seen in things that are the right that "can" be achieved by any unemployed. Why run from it? Why are we creating the possibility that in Belgrade it can not be realised, in another place, that it is a free estimate and why we once go to legal acts that would bring all the unemployed into the same position, that they do not depend on the service that should evaluate it. If it had been put here that the National Service would have established the criteria then it would have been clear to me and then I wouldn't have gone out for a pay phone and I wouldn't have submitted the amendment. This way, I suggest that the Serbian government think carefully about this part because tomorrow on the ground it will return to us, but by the time it reaches the government it will be too late because things are getting late, a lot of time on the ground. You should know that dissatisfaction is great and that by this law you will increase it even more and irritate those who do so - it will bear responsibility. I don't think this law and leaving these free estimates will contribute to the stability of Serbia. It won't contribute! Serbia's stability can only contribute to production and equal treatment for all unemployed. This law doesn't give!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32137	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Milan Jankovic, Joca Arsic, Đura Lazic and Ljubisa Maravic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone in the name of the applicant want a word? Here's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32138	As the chairman already said by a group of MPs and I, we have submitted an amendment to Article 48. He's been talked about a lot by my predecessor. The point of the amendment is that the word "have" replaces the word "can" in the text, where it is said that the unemployed can make compensation for travel expenses and one-time assistance, etc. in accordance with the General Act of the National Service if they are employed outside the place of residence. Our understanding that normation has to be precise, to avoid volunteering, not to say - it can be realized, but to say - to make it happen. To be sure, whoever has the right to the cost of moving, the cost of the trip if they are hired outside the place of residence to make those rights come true. So our amendment proposes to delete "can" rather than say "rewards to it". This is an open question, so that we don't go into whether or not someone can do it, whether it can be a privilege for someone by party, one or that line and belonging, there's no need to talk about it. It's essential that this standard is specified. This occurs in several other members, in Article 34, Article 50, etc. We think that if one law wants to be serious, it needs to avoid solutions that are alternative and that give freedom to do something, and it doesn't have to. This is like when they asked our man if it was that and he said "it might be but it doesn't have to be," so here it has to be interpreted one way or another. In order to avoid that "it may be but it doesn't have to mean", I think it's quite logical to adopt this amendment to delete "it can" and to stay "fulfilling", and there's no need to waste too many words on something that's quite logical. If someone thought someone had the right to someone, then the right should be and precise and say that they are the right to do so. Not that it can. That you can leave it to him - if he thinks you need to make it happen, it's his thing, not that it's in the law. So leave it to whoever has the right to do it, to decide whether or not it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32139	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Here's a word for the MP Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32140	Mrs. Komic, Minister Milovanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I welcome you all, of course not, the essence of this amendment has already been explained and when we talked about subsidies today when we talk about this member, and it is not possible to say "can". It needs to be written - it's coming true, because what does that mean?- I'm sorry. Who will decide who will exercise the right to one-time cash aid and who will not exercise that right. But this is an opportunity to remind the DOS Minister and MPs what rights were in our time. Here is the Minister, Article 23, Section - Second Rights, so we are, you read, you see everything, where the unemployed person is said to have the right to compensation for the costs of transport and moving to work outside the place of residence and the right to temporary accommodation. So, we've given accommodation and food up to 30 days. What great rights they were. But the citizens of Serbia and the people of Serbia are increasingly realizing that it was much better by 2000 than it is now. It was hard to live, it survived, but survival is better than instant death. This power all leads to instant death; and production, means economy, and employment and all other areas of social life. That such evidence were and the last elections without any effort, 20% of the SPS was won, so the people say it was good compared to what is being done today and how is being lived.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32141	National MP Vlasimir Budimovic submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing that the title be changed above article 49. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. Are any of the authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlasimir Budimovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. Are any of the authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 49 of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted this amendment. Are any of the authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Vlasimir Budimovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. Are any of the authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Lukic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32142	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 51st define what public works are in terms of this law and contains four points. The SRS proposes that item 1) of Article 51 be deleted because it defines that, public works within the meaning of this law, work in social, humanitarian, cultural and other activities. It is clear and understandable to me that, given the qualifications, education, intellectual skills, the minister does not know what public works can be, and therefore, in this law, this article, includes and defines the public works in these areas that I have listed. That's absolutely impossible. We believe that these actions cannot in any way fall within the scope of public works. We agree with these other points - 2) "to maintain and restore public infrastructure; 3) to maintain and protect the environment and nature"; and point 4), that public works" are of general interest", which do not fall within the regular activity of the public enterprise, i.e. the public enterprise is unable to perform them". We're against this piece of work relating to public works. The SRS programme defines and insists that precisely public works should be the motor force to leave the crisis of our country, to open up opportunities in the field of public works for the employment of a large number of resuscitators, above all, of this building activity, because our construction companies are extremely well known and appreciated in the world and have great opportunities and abilities in these areas. It's been dead since coming to DOS power. Almost nothing in the area of construction is done. It's in the area of construction, but only for the destruction of what's been built so far. Point 1) is a space to manipulate both the Republic of Serbia's budget in this part and this area. That funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are not directed at what they should focus on, above all, on building public infrastructure, but on some humanitarian organisations, namely NGOs, to invest money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, to launder money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that those who, since 5 October, do not receive large and large donations from Western governments, Western intelligence services, Western NGOs, switch to funding from the budget. The essence of this first act in 51st is that those who have so far been on the "jalas of the West" are allowed to now be on the "Grba" of this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32143	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yes, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32144	Dear colleagues, it is true that public works make it possible to employ the most employable categories of unemployed and those who wait longer for employment, as well as those who are in a state of social need. However, we cannot allow public works to be called and intervened in areas that are otherwise on the budget or local self-government or territorial autonomy or the state of Serbia, or in cultural and other activities, it is simply impossible to declare something public. It could be, say, for the Ministry of Culture a job of importance and that it declares it public works, that it finance it, but it's hard to imagine now that we can go to the Bureau and look for actors and directors, and I don't know what the professions of people who would be working on that project, unless (a colleague yells), it won't be necessary to find 500 extras for a movie. It is invaluable for the state and therefore we felt that in these activities, such as social, humanitarian, cultural, we cannot talk about employment in public works. However, I don't know if during this government and one job has been declared public works. Were those Chumet's asphaltings public works? I don't think so. We from the SRS insisted on public works, though not as regulated, but at the time of the reconstruction of the country after the NATO Pact's aggression, on building bridges, repairing infrastructures, raising broken-down factories. And how it was done by the principle of public works, but our companies were getting jobs. In this way they received both salaries and many were paid pension and social security debts, which could not be paid several years back, due to sanctions, due to other economic negative causes and effects. The SRS is for public works, with you here, in one way that is inappropriate, in article 55, to predict it. We will explain that, as part of this amendment, but this time we think that point 1) is too high, we will see in practice how this will happen and whether anything in these areas will be called public work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32145	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32146	I've submitted an amendment to article 54 where I'm asking for Section 3 to be deleted. Reason: The organisation of public works is in exclusive jurisdiction of the Republic or territorial units which do not have to ask for an opinion from anyone. In fact, Article 54(3) says that opinions should be sought, etc. I think this is regulated and that no opinion should be asked of others, especially of this law that's on the agenda. Mr. Minister, I want to tell you, I'm gonna defend you like yesterday. You've proposed this law by the ministers and probably this law will be passed, probably. There's a great danger here. In this assembly when you are elected, the DOS has been elected legally, and legally through the SAA, legal radicals, legal through the SSJ, there is now a great danger that unknown people are voting for it, such as the DSS which did not just go to elections on its own, such as "liberals", some other parties, etc!- I'm sorry. After that, the law is passed and you're sued. They voted people who weren't legally elected. I mean, these uninformed, I don't know what they're looking for in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32147	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 55. The amendment was brought together by the MPs, Hranislav Peric and others. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word has been issued by MP Toma Busetic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32148	I thought this was gonna be the afternoon... And how many more, two minutes?- I'm sorry. It's about public works. We consider these criteria related to public works to be narcissistic. Who is given priority in public works? We need to distinguish what our position is and what your opinion of public works is. We think, at least for these unemployed people, for these unemployed people, this is going to be a punishment, and you think it's a reward. You say the advantage is those who wait longer than two years. The advantage has faces that are over 50 years old. Imagine a 50-year-old man who's lost his job, all depressed, depressed, - and you point him on the way, to some street to work; or a customer of cash compensation, and these are those who are out of work, am out of work, and again all depressed, and you say, "Come on now, and the minister says -- there won't be many roads, there'll be more façades. I listened to him, he was on TV, something's been missing lately, I don't know why. I don't think these criteria are good. We also have to consider the health condition of all these people and the professional prepared - can't a doctor, can't a professor now fuck a stone on the street. It can't. You shouldn't. Do you want to calm this Radosavljevic? So your criteria aren't good and this isn't good, it's just absolutely unacceptable for us. Those who are in a state of social need, they have an advantage. And for what advantage? The most important thing is for ministers to open new factories, to hire these people, but here, in three years, no new factories. Nothing. It's all good and it's all good.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32149	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 55. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32150	The essence of the SRS amendment to Article 55 is the criteria by which the participation of the unemployed in public works is determined, and should primarily be criteria set out in Article 43. However, it is obvious that the government does not really want to install anything like this for the simple reason it stems from the opposition side, especially the SRS. What would be more realistic criteria than these criteria in Article 23 that you yourself stated. However, the legislator says, according to the law, but when something is not defined in the law, and specifically in this article, then when it is left to free interpretation, and especially when it comes to such a sensitive area as unemployment, then there can be so many injustices. We do not see the reason why such stubbornness of the proponents and the non-acceptance of the SRS amendment has clearly defined the criteria in Article 23(1). We don't mind if these criteria stay, but when it comes to public works, the criteria are to be primarily professionally prepared, the ability -- but for which reason we ask that as the main and prevailing criteria be prepared. We can ask, but we have no one to ask from. So we appeal to the promoter to install this into article 55 and to keep all these criteria, but to be some priorities when it comes to criteria. That wouldn't be bad for a simple reason, that way at least, if nothing else, would be a respected school, professionally prepared, when it comes to public works. However, it is in vain to hope that there will be any public works, unless you count painting into public works.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32151	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32152	Thank you for gathering in such numbers. This article 55 is one of the key members of the law. I have to admit, by reading the law, I've had a great deal of pain in how, possibly, we can rephrase this member by estimating the objective of public works. It is clear that the state wants to take off certain obligations and that those who are her burden of employment, which are certainly the users of monetary compensation, are unemployed in a state of social need. The problem is with older than 50 years of life, it is clear and the employer is reluctant to hire such a worker. We were wondering if we should make an observation and a provision that it is possible for all these people to work on public works, by requiring their consent to do so, or by insisting on the way we have amended it and done it - so that it is possible for the unemployed to be sent by the National Service to work on public works, under the conditions laid down in Article 23. And here, first of all, we were referring to the position of Article 23. The rest is unclear, and it could be interpreted that, practically, the National Service can commit the unemployed and say, "You now meet the conditions for public works and you have to go." What if you don't leave? Is there any adverse consequences? There is. That's the conclusion from the whole of this law. We also have to predict cases where someone simply, however much they want, can't for objective reasons: what from health, and what about family obligations. Imagine the mother you refer to as public works or father, however, it's a job that involves field work, and she has a disabled child and has an obligation, say, three times a week or every morning to take the child to rehab; she can't do it no matter how much money she needs, she'll refuse to work, or he, on public works. That's why we brought you back to the terms of Article 23. I don't think that's too high, and that's how we allow the unemployed if there are objective reasons to refuse to work on public works, so that they can do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32153	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 55. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government and the Labour Committee have adopted this amendment. That's what I'd like to end up in the afternoon. We continue at 15.05 p.m. by discussing the amendment to Article 58, which was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. Thank you. [[After break - 15.45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon. Please enter your identification cards into the voting parliamentary units to determine the quorum. I agree that we have a quorum for work and continue the debate in detail on the amendment to Article 58, which was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 58, paragraph 2, in which I request that this position be deleted. For reasons of passing this law, it is said that "the law lays down incentives for the employer and self-employment of the unemployed, as well as measures that create conditions for new employment. "A "significant paper of the law is the introduction of an unemployed concept as an active job seeker with the help of the National Service and private agencies that provide services free of charge to the unemployed. "The obligation and responsibility of the National Employment Service is increasing, in line with the agreed individualisation of knowledge and the ability of the unemployed and the situation in the labour market. What I fear most is that experts from European Union countries, international labour organisations and experts from the World Bank participated in this law. This is just another law in a series of bad laws proposed by this government, and under this law many people will be left without health insurance. In the most difficult situation in the last few years, during NATO aggression, we had working-active, or employees far more than we do now. The government has no vision of employment for the next period. Due to the growing economic and social situation of citizens, it is expected that there will be an exit to the streets and protests of employees and unemployed in the coming period. Thanks to the reforming pro-European DOS government, we may have six-seven circuit services in the future, so the growth of unemployment and the number of services in the coming period, thanks to the winding up of the DOS, would be growing and higher. No one knows where the border is, or the final number of unemployed, as there is no limit to the ignorance of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32156	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 58. The amendment was submitted by MP Ispanovich Istvan. He withdrew the amendment at the session of the Legislative Committee. To article 60. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 62. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 62. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 63. The amendment was brought together by MPs Miomir Ilic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 63. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 63. The draft law on employment and insurance for unemployment, which we proposed that the Management Board and the chairman of the Management Board be appointed for a period of four years and that the other words be deleted. So we are establishing an amendment to the term of office of officials, board members and directors in accordance with the legal provisions. Why did we, in the SRS, do it? We have done above all, taking into account the manipulative tendency of certain or more specifically said majority of the members of the Government of Serbia's DOS government, so it is our real suspicion that your good intentions exist; that you will not exercise the manipulation of the ambiguity of the provisions and of this bill, and especially that it is possible for the National Employment Service to set a mandate for members of the Management Board and the Director, or not, presidents and members of the Management Board. The powers of the National Employment Service are great by law, so they are given the opportunity to be greater by determining the term of office. So we are in advance of expressing a great deal of doubt over the need to exercise control, and above all by legal provisions, and certain state bodies, and the law is proposed to the competent ministry, especially because the supervision of the work of the National Employment Service is such that at least once every two years or so, the control of this national service, which is very little, and with certain provisions it would be really unacceptable, especially when we consider that one member of the Management Board will propose representative trade unions. What are the representative unions? Are those who have luxury business spaces, financial assets that are closer to the government? Is that the union where you are Mr. Minister Dragana Milovanovic or your colleague, provided that he is, Bratislava Djuric, or will be those unions that spend a lot of money. We have an example that you've recently, I'm not personally saying you, but of course someone from the government has managed to get the president of the union at the Colubary Lobby and buy for his wife's apartment and move her to a better place of work so that he's boycotted, blasted the organisation of a legitimate dissatisfaction of the Kolubara workers. It is thus impossible to accept the Act of the National Employment Service to determine the term of office for the president and members of the Management Board of the National Employment Service.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32158	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word is from MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32159	Since most appointed persons, even named, are named for a period of four years, because it is understood that the director, who will be, should be appointed to four years and there is no reason for the board of directors in different environments to decide how long the mandate will take. I think the law should regulate that the board of directors and the chairman of the board of directors should be appointed for a period laid down by law for a period of four years. It's this appointment period, and everything, and I think that when the board starts work, it starts work and the person who's going to run the labour market, which means that a plan should be made together and it should all be for a four-year period. In that sense, I suggest that this member be complemented, that it be specified for four years, which is then for the supervisory board, and for the appointment of a full service. I don't think we should leave. It is that the minister can make instructions, etc., but outside the instructions, it is necessary to regulate that part of the law, as is regulated in education, so it is said that the appointment for a period of four years is in other legal acts, and therefore the elections are four years old and I think that you should accept that the board of directors is appointed for a period of four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32160	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32161	Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to point to one illogicality of this law. When it comes to the duration of the term of office of members of the Board of Directors, Directors or Supervisory Board, the Government leaves it with the draft law of the Statute of the National Service, and when it comes to the organisation of the National Service itself, it interferes with this and already this law determines which organisation units should have the National Service. It's completely out of our minds, and we haven't yet had a proposal not to regulate the duration of the term of office, no matter how long it is. Make it six years, you can put it for life, but it should be regulated by law, not by leaving it to the National Service, or the board of directors, to decide in their statute what mandate they will be, first of all, their mandate. The Management Board shall decide on the duration of the term of office of members of the Management Board. It is totally illusory and regardless of the nature of this management committee, as proposed by the Government, but I don't think anything would bother it and would be desirable, and in any case in accordance with this objective, that when the Government appoints a board of directors it would have to know at what time to appoint it, or at what time the Director or Supervisory Board is appointed. As a result, one gap was left behind, left to those who would be on the board of directors to determine for themselves the duration of the term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32162	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 64 refers to a part-time job. Member of the 64th is defined to adopt: the Statute of the National Service: General Acts of the National Service: the National Service Programme; and the Financial Plan of the National Service. So based on this, you can see that the entire article 64 actually determines the work of the board of directors. The Management Board shall appoint and dismiss the Government. As part of the Management Board, one member shall propose: representative trade unions and representative associations of the Union of employers, as well as organisations of the unemployed, including one member who is proposed from the ranks of employees of the National Service. Now it's a little bit of a problem with this law, that definition at all. First of all, you can see that the definition of unemployed in this bill is consistent with the definition adopted at the 13th International Conference of Statisticalists in the field of work. I guess people who deal with statistics are competent to determine what is the definition of unabsorbed, and then the question is, what is a representative union, or representative association? If we look at Mr. Dragan Milovanovic then he's probably a representative example of the government's representative, and that's what I showed yesterday in my presentation, that he's a real example of the government's representative. We should probably know what representative unions and representative associations are. That is why I am calling for a representative of the Government, or a respected minister, to pay attention to the amendment submitted by the SRS. I'll, no matter what you, Mr. Secretary, pay attention, I'll give you some notes. The amendment of the SRS is given to Article 64 as it is left, but to add after point 4) of point 5) and that the last point reads: "It adopts a report on business and the final account of the National Service". You can see in your explanation that the SRS has defined that the amendment is legally logical, given that this is not being decided, but rather an act being adopted. I would ask you to pay attention to article 65 means the following member, where you will see that point 3 is precisely what I have now defined: "Accepts a report on business and a final account of the National Service". You have to admit that article 65 says the board of directors decides. So, if it already decides there's nothing more to adopt the report, and if the board makes a much more logical legal decision, and in every respect, just as we suggest under new point 5) to put in place to adopt the report on business and the final account of the National Service. I think the amendment is really meaningful and that this is how we try to help you, make the law more acceptable to the citizens of Serbia. I thank you in advance if you realize that our intentions were well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32164	Is anyone else answering for word from the authorized participants? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on employment and unemployment insurance, which I ask to delete in Article 65, paragraph 1. The amendment is due to the amendment to Article 64. - if the Management Board adopts a report on the operation and final account of the National Service, as defined by the SRS amendment to Article 64, then the logical consequence is that this third position of Article 65 is deleted. Therefore, this amendment is in a close relationship or the consequence of the previous amendment, as the report on the business of the final account is not decided but adopted. It's more logical that this attitude is in Article 64. The promoter only has the illusion of possibly starting the reform process, so that instead of creating conditions for employment, the effect of this bill in practice will be a large number of people who will be prevented from working. The promoter seems to be suffering from autism, far from real understanding of the situation in this sphere, theoretically wants reforms, while in practice the situation is catastrophic. 40% of the population is jobless, thanks to changes since October 5th. Did you promise that in the pre-election campaign to Serbian citizens, does the Government of the Republic of Serbia see dozens of strikes, and there is every chance that the coming autumn will be transparent with many banners?- I'm sorry. When we listen to government representatives, we get the impression that we live in paradise conditions. Social policy doesn't exist or is completely defensive. In Serbia, the product of your policy is a major economic crisis and social misery. Your economic policy has failed. Not only are you unable to implement the reforms, but you are unable to establish a dialogue with dissatisfied and deluded workers. In front of the hunger ministry and in front of the minister of "hungry" it's a difficult hot fall and perhaps a huge outcry of labor -- I'd hate to be in your shoes, Mr. Minister, no matter how comfortable you are and how sweet the privileges of the "hungry" ministry are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32166	Is anyone else answering for word from the authorized participants? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32167	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any reason for this and the previous amendment to Article 64 not to be adopted, or not to be accepted, because obviously, in addition to the illiteracy expressed in Articles 64 and 65 and we have to take account of that and since the Management Board decides, well, in point 1) on business; in point 2) on the use of the National Service funds in accordance with the law; in point 3 the Management Board adopts a report on business. It simply cannot stand, especially since the adoption of the Business and Final Account of the National Service is an act. So a decision is made, adopted at a session, that and that, the National Service Management Board -- adopted a business report for both the period. All that constitutes the final account and what is in accordance with the Budgetary System Act shall be attached. This act must be delivered to the Government by the Management Board. He doesn't belong in this article 65. (where all what the board of directors decides on is listed) is already to be transferred to Article 64 where the board of directors is taking some acts, including this act, by asking for a legal and technical order, because it is still not a good formulation to stand - the board of directors "brings" and again "the business report". So without this -- adoption, it would be just -- "brings a report on business and a final account of the National Service". I don't know how to convince you that this is also illiterate and that it violates the practical material law, because it's an act that goes on to verify the government, but it's up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32168	Is anyone else answering for word from the authorized participants? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric, Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Đura Lazić, Hranislav Peric, Milan Jankovic and Golub Rajic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The authorised representative of the applicants is not here. The word has been issued by MP Toma Busetic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment to this article 65 refers to the jurisdiction of the board of directors. In particular, our objection is related to point 4 of this article, which states that, in addition to other competences, the Management Board decides on the operation of the National Service, on the use of the National Service's resources in accordance with the law, adopts the Business Report and the Final Account of the National Service and this 4) the point determines the contribution rates in accordance with this law. We believe that these are too many powers from the National Service or the Republic Labour Market Office. It is simply our suggestion that a decisive word, when it comes to the level of the contribution rate, has a National Assembly. Of course, the most logical thing here would be that the final word on the rate of contribution is the Assembly of users and service providers, as it was before, but it's all unthinkable now, of which there's nothing left, and given above all, that today this ministry and this service are funding 50% through the budget, then there's a lot of reason to put this question, "the rate of contribution", in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Of course, it is said in the proposal's explanation that this is the opposite of the Constitution, because social security organisations, independent organisations with public service status, would be opposed to the Constitution to accepting the proposed amendment. No matter what is not broken when it comes to the Constitution over the past two and a half years: the introduction of an emergency, the extradition of President Milosevic, the adoption of a series of laws that were anti-constitutional, so at least this issue would be contrary to the Constitution. I simply think that this is the most logical solution, and I suggest that the Minister accepts this proposal, or amendment, in the end, I expect it to address it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32170	Is anyone else answering for word from the authorized participants? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked my amendment that the National Service's financial plan be given by the Government and not by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The promoter refused this amendment of mine, I don't know why, I didn't get the government's explanation, so let the minister try to answer that, because it's not hard for me as a MP and that job to do, Mr. Minister, but it's not in my job description. Not to mention that this article in 67 is contrary to the Budget Law and the Budgetary System Act, so you can come into conflict with your colleague Bozidar Djelic. Ask him what he thinks about it. I think the government was supposed to accept this amendment of mine, or are you bringing me into doubt - what is it, so you didn't accept this amendment? Is it perhaps your irresponsibleness or laziness that you make these decisions and that you give consent to one such plan? It's your job, Mr. Minister, not the work of MPs. If we consider your biography that you gave, twice, when you were running for minister and became it, and here's the second time, you didn't have one day of work in your biography, except in union association and union services. So I believe it's your worth, or should I say different laziness, the only reason why you refuse one such amendment. If you had considered a little more and had read the proposals and amendments of the Serbian Radical Party a little bit more, you would probably have accepted one such amendment, but what is there. What else can we expect from an imperfect student?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32172	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32173	Dear colleagues, it is not the first time that the government has committed us to something that does not belong to the congregation. We should not reconcile with this provision of legislation where the National Assembly would be put in charge of granting consent to the National Service's financial plan. The government may think that this is how it implodes us, but we need to stick to what belongs to us under the Constitution. We are here to pass the law, and law enforcement is entrusted according to the Constitution, the Serbian Government, and it exists, and because the adoption of a financial plan is the action of law enforcement, because the financial plan itself, the act itself, is somewhat lower than the law, but it has this power. It's always an act of law enforcement in the power of the executive, so it should be in this case as well. When we make the budget, the government of Serbia implements the budget. I don't see why we should be burdened here by this, especially if it's not in our jurisdiction to give consent to the National Service's financial plan. We should strictly all stick to what we've been put in charge of, and then there'd be a lot less confusion about everything that's been done, especially what the government gives consent to the National Service's work programme. You'd have to, by nature, give consent to the financial plan as well. She left here in Article 27 alone for herself, the obligation to determine the level of services in the field of employment not established by this law. You have seen that on several occasions we intervened with amendments to the members of the law, which obliged either the Minister, or the Government, or the Assembly to something that belonged to neither, nor to the other, nor to the third, or to the prosecution of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32174	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The 68th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic, Zoran Angelkovic, Hranislav Peric and Dragan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Does the authorised representative of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, although in my previous presentation, I said that the legislator of this law was ensnared in some unnecessary provisions, i.e. the proposals of the members who followed at the outset, such as Article 8 where those provisions were laid down in the proposal contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this article, I have to tell you that it's short and relatively clear, but it's unscheduled. As far as the Supervisory Board, president and members are concerned, Article 68(3) says they are elected on the basis of the statutes of the National Service. However, earlier legislative proposals, as regards public enterprises, institutions, schools, we adopted these legal proposals and set mandates there, the number of board members for a four-year period. The explanation given by the applicant in the rejection of our amendments to Article 68(3) where we have proposed that the president and members of the Supervisory Board be elected for a period of four years is incomplete and incomplete; because it is said that, in accordance with the law, the mandate may last for more than four years, and is determined by the founding act, or by the Statute of the National Service. So it could take 100 years. For this reason, I absolutely understand that the refusal of this amendment of the Socialist Party, as well as other amendments, is in the problem of Mr. Minister who apparently has some problems since last year with members of the Socialist Party. This is a very reasoned reason and quite understandable, that both members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board (Art. 63 and 68) They have been elected for a period of four years, and I hope that the Assembly will accept the proposal we made in the amendment on amendments to Article 68(3).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32176	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised the minister didn't accept this amendment. I think he was ready to accept it and he was waiting for this amendment to be submitted. This is about the amendment to Article 68 asking that the term of office of the president and members of the Supervisory Board be determined for four years. Why? The law provides for that to be determined by the statute. However, consent to the statutes is given by the government. It may occur to someone to predict that this mandate lasts 15, 16, 20 years! Now it may seem strange to someone, amazing or they'll say no one's crazy to appoint a board of directors for 20 years. That can't happen, we'll take care of it, etc. But it really did not occur to anyone in Serbia that sugar can be sold for three euros, so it was sold, or that MPs change several political parties during the term of office and retain their mandates. So everything is possible and in this name we want to ensure ourselves; that the law stipulates that the term of office will take four years, and of course, it will be contained in the statutes under the law that is passed. And finally, to give you the last argument, which is acceptable to the minister, which is who believed that one union official, leader, president of a leftist party until three years ago, I know him as he went to work, today he will have a mobile phone with an integrated camera, a camera, and that during the time when MPs present amendments or talk about the law, in principle, he is photographing these same MPs and keeping a memory of the election, as he did yesterday while Serbian Radical Party MP Natasa Jovanovic spoke?- I'm sorry. I understand she's a hot girl, but Minister, you've got to hold on a little bit, and you're in your age.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32178	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32179	Dear colleagues, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have tabled about fifty amendments to the bill's proposal; no amendment has been accepted by the government, nor have we heard today from the proposing representatives a single argument against and why some of the amendments cannot be accepted. I stand on the view that we have submitted amendments to improve the text and that certainly a large number could have been accepted independently of the government policy or the Serbian Radical Party's policy, which we have, when we submit amendments, above all, trying to follow the Serbian Radical Party programme, but some amendments were completely out of the programme, but based solely on the law and to share competences between individual authorities. You have the opportunity to accept these amendments later in the voting day, it's all up to you. Serbian Radical Party MPs will now leave the session, in order to monitor the appearance of Serbian Radical Party President Vojislav Seselj, in front of The Hague tribunal and I advise and recommend that everyone else watch Serbian national interests defend themselves in addition to the small screens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32180	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment to Article 68 was submitted jointly by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Lukic, Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic and Ana Tasic together submitted to the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants for the amendment, the authorised representative of the applicants, MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32181	Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable presidency, a group of MPs of the Serbian Unity Party have tabled an amendment to Article 73 proposing that the member be deleted. The reason for submitting this amendment is the following - since this is a member of the 73rd who says: "Controlling the legality of labour and acts of the National Service is carried out by the Ministry". We have noticed that the identical formulation is contained in section J of Article 147 of this Law, which reads: "Controlling the legality of work and acts as well as professional supervision of the work of the National Service and the Agency is carried out by the Ministry". We believe that this law is too burdened by duplication of formulations, there is a lot of contradiction in the law itself, but when it comes to this proposal, we find it absolutely acceptable to delete Article 73, otherwise it remains Article 147 that regulates this, even something more complete. That is why I propose that Members accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32182	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment to article 74 was submitted by MP Branislav Vakic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The applicant is not present. Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment, by content, is the proposal to delete the title above the 75th and the 75th members, together submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirović, Dragan Jovanovic, Radojko Petrovic, Milan Jankovic, Toma Busetic, Đura Lazic, Zivodarka Dacin, Rajko Baralić and Joca Arsic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ) The unauthorized representative of the applicants is Bora Stanimirovic, according to information provided to the Secretary of the Assembly. National MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32183	I thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain this amendment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the amendment to Article 75 is in agreement with our principled position, that we are against the establishment of the agency and in this sense we have submitted this amendment - that the title (subtitle) and Article 75 are deleted, because we believe that there are many intermediaries in employment: that we have a National Agency; that we have agencies that are set up, that can be set up by other legal and physical persons; the National Service; we have many forms of mediation, self-employment, employment clubs, we now have agencies. We have many more intermediaries in the employment process, and it seems to me that we will have little effect on employment, if we do not create opportunities for the economy and other economic operators, whether it is small, medium or large enterprises, whether it is the opening of new trades - STR, etc., that only this regulation will be out of reach and will not be able to give major effects unless it is business, other business entities, if new jobs are not opened, which would give the opportunity to employ a larger number of people. We now tend to increase the number of unemployed, rather than tend to increase the number of employees. We therefore believe that, in addition to all these intermediaries in employment and creating opportunities for new employment, it is absolutely unnecessary to set up these agencies that are designed so that they can be established by natural and legal persons, and in accordance with this law they carry out the tasks referred to in Article 2 of the Law, points 1) to 6). To conclude, the reason aside from what I've listed, is our principled position that we are against the establishment of the agency, and we think that one of the few laws that is in the procedure, the law on railways, which has been removed from the agenda, is the only one that does not foresee the establishment of the agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32184	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević submitted together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Do any of the authorities want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32185	Article 75, the establishment of agencies, has an impression from the beginning, as it started in all the laws of the minority, there is an agency everywhere. The only condition of all agencies is to hire what can't be done anywhere. That's what we'll see here by the next member who says we should have a mid-skiller and pass some exam that the minister's running. It says here that agencies can establish physical and legal faces. All would be fine, but which legal persons, those who have good money, because in the previous article, it says the minister will monetaryally determine how much the agency will pay, based on the one who will establish, for founding rights in the agency. If more money is said to improve employment, then I ask the question of how much money it will have to be paid to set up an agency, if it can affect employment more significantly. That money, by that, is big. So we automatically determine in advance that those who have become rich can only start an agency and solve problems, for God's sakes, the unemployed. Minister, not all people are equal, and given this in the next article, the middle cook, and above is said to be "not able to deal with the employment of minors, as well as with higher-risk employment". Minister, does this mean that they are not qualified for the jobs they need to do, that they do not have the qualification structure that is necessary for the assessment of these jobs? I don't think they'd be able to work. The agency can work if it can represent anything or can't. On the other hand, you say here that during the strike the agency must not participate in employment, except in jobs for which no minimum work process is provided - we will push to bring workers against workers! It's a nice lesson to protect power, no matter who's in power. Now it's you, and who knows who it's gonna be. (Dragan Milovanovic: Me again.) We'll see about that. If you bring in the athletes and order Peronico to go in there. God forbid time changes things. Therefore, everything that is done in agencies, and the basis is the medium professional prepares - I hope for both high-building and low-building; for health care; and for all, the agency can hire, because there are very capable people with medium professional training as a basis. So either regulate the agency to be professionally represented as the National Service, to have all the qualification structures to do all the jobs or eliminate the agency from this list. Otherwise, half the solutions aren't good.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32186	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Rajko Baralic and others together have submitted an amendment suggesting that the title above members 76 and Article 76 be deleted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Does an authorised representative want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32187	Mrs. Comic, gentlemen of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the typeology you promoted yourself, should have been one of the most significant forms of your authority. You haven't done that in a long time. I guess there is no man in Serbia who doesn't want to hear what the bill looks like, which is now on the agenda, and what amendments the MPs, which they have chosen, are submitted to the proposed law. But there's obviously no help there. We'll see tomorrow on this famous Committee on Culture and Information. (Alexander Radosavljevic: It was a dyspression. ) It is not a recession, it is a precise description of the ambience in which one MP submits amendments and acts in Parliament. If it isn't, it will be. It is unacceptable for private persons to have the right to set up employment agencies, because for the same reasons of the youth cooperative, which by law resolved their existence and existence differently, are no longer able to do so. It may happen that, for example, one director or one minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as it usually happens, enables his brother or his son to open one such agency, and that he is, for example, the director of a mine with a cave exploitation, which is now very interesting, and that in that mine or elsewhere, according to criteria that are obviously not transparent, only hires certain people, say, with certain party books or some other famous qualifications of this type Yes, you've been welcomed by Comrade Tito and he's well, which he wants for you. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] This law, with this member and an agency like this, leaves room for major abuses. Employment should be done by state, state authorities, state institutions, that those in charge are in control of employment and in a way that is known everywhere in the world. If the agencies carry out this way, as predicted here, it will be very difficult to measure who they are and why they hired, what were the criteria that brought them there and what was the general interest of the state and of the largest number of people and of the people of that country to make all of this work the way it works. (President: three minutes. ) That is why I propose that the other members be deleted too, and Mr. Misa Ilic, future president of the municipality in Pozarevec, is very pleased to have been deleted, because this law will not endure the trial of time. We'll have a chance to check it out in the next few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32188	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of Zivodarka Dacin and others together have submitted an amendment suggesting that the title above Articles 77 and 77 be deleted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Does an authorised representative want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Živodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32189	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, I must say that unlike my colleagues from the SRS, I absolutely understand the minister why he does not come out here to defend every amendment and explanation for why the government rejected him. These are really laws, as well as the previous Labour Act, something that is not defensive. I agree that we must follow some of the standards and criteria dictated by the European Union, but it would be much more favourable if we had taken this step by step. I still had the impression since yesterday, when in the opening letter Mr. Minister spoke of a Serbia that I thought was a virtual Serbia or whether you, Mr. Minister and I live in the same country, given the fact that you said, approximately, that job offers are much higher than demand. I'm afraid it's some kind of story that's about to be more and more present, but unfortunately, it's not like that. If this law had to be written, I agree, but first the government had to do something to hire at least 800,000 unemployed, who were out of a job, and only then make some laws like this that could bring it all down. Of course, this member is in line with the principles of the SPS, whose view is that there is no need to set up agencies in this segment, unless, and that is said more than once here, you have also said, I quote "that the agency should affect increased employment". We should, but we don't think that it would, unfortunately, affect increased employment unless we count on vacant seats in all the agencies that have been formed in the current government so far, something that has been passed through the legal acts, and there are many who have gone unknowingly even us MPs in the Serbian Parliament. I only have one specific question for Mr. Minister -- whether it will be the agency that will employ about 55,000 health workers, who will be out of work in some time soon. Why am I saying this? Don't frown, ask around. There are 118,000 employees, and according to European Union standards, and in order for healthcare and health care to be at some level of European standard, the maximum number of employees should be between 63,000 and 65,000. I think it's a very harsh perspective that expects everything, regardless of whether it's a health or an unhealthy person, and that's something that should be ignored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32190	Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 77. Amendments, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others; and by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment, on the content of the proposal, is that the title above Articles 78 and 79 and the members of 78 and 79 be deleted; the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and others, while the Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 78. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 79. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment, by substance, is a proposal to delete the title above Articles 80 and 80, and together by MPs Djura Lazic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 80. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative, a SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32191	Now, let's see what the minister has to offer us here, he says, "The National Service and the Agency are obliged to cooperate." What does that mean? Translation means that the National Service has to transfer all the money into private hands and that they're doing their job, and they're going to sit there and pee a little bit. Therefore, this member does not contribute to anything that means improving employment. He says further, the minister is obliged, even if he's a friend, even if he's from his union, then in that situation to provide full assistance. What does that mean? He doesn't need the Minister's National Service, he needs his union and his private agency. Furthermore, he says, "The National Service and the Agency agree to adopt a code of professional conduct." Since the code is passed by the minister, and his are in private agencies, then there is no problem with being employed illiterate, those who have two years left until the end of some studies, so that they can jump in, those who have no high school and come to places and the president of the municipality. It is all in order to improve Serbia's economic development. If this is the case for ministers to improve Serbia's work and development, I may have lived on the moon and not on Earth, there is no development with what you're offering.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32192	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment is a proposal for Chapter V and Articles 82 to 87 to be deleted and submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 82. The amendment was brought together by MPs Rajko Baralic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32193	Ladies and gentlemen, with my colleagues on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 82 of the Law. He's also in connection with Article 62. It is the constitution of the National Agency's advice, and the committee and the government have not accepted the amendment. We find that unwarranted. I just want a few sentences to say what's the point here. We think that the Chamber of Commerce is still the most important association of economic operators in the country, regardless of what it says in its explanation that it has no function, social or similar. Of course, we know that there are various other associations, foreign chambers, industrialists of Mr. Bogoljub Karic and others for single use. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is and will be the place to be important for business and businesses and should be able to delegate to important institutions of national importance representatives who will oversee or manage important national resources. The explanation offered by the government goes in a different way. I appreciate that this is a mistake and a pity and that the Chamber of Commerce has no alternative when it comes to these matters, and in this way this advice that this is about would be able to represent interests more representatively, primarily employees and those who need to provide conditions to employ new people. Everyone else is involved in employment because of another story. The only serious companies whose association is the chamber's economy are able to provide conditions for new and quality employment. I suggest that colleagues accept this amendment because it improves the law and improves the qualitative structure of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32194	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been issued by MP Toma Busetic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that counterpart Rajko Baralic explained well, but there are always additional explanations that are not intrusive. Here, in this article 82, everything is controversial. The first establishment of the Republic Employment Council is disputed. What's this Republic Employment Council gonna do? Will it be of any use to the Republic Employment Council? The Council should give an opinion and a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for example. related to the organisation of public works. Who are the members of the council? Representatives of the Government, representative trade unions and representative employers' associations. I spoke once, it's true to Micovic, but it's not worth it, you can't get smart. There are no representative unions in Serbia today. Independent unions exist because they are more organized at the level of municipalities. They have some kind of power, but it's all for nothing when that power, these independent unions, cannot be articulated, because the head of the independent union, Mika Smiljanic, the man of this government, was your candidate for MP until yesterday, which he was not. These other trade unions, led by Branislav Canak, have been on the same path since 1992, and when something is launched by those from Canak's own union, it's not the time, it's not the time, etc. This union, spoken of by Minister Dragan Milovanovic, does not exist. I don't know, Minister, how many members there are, maybe 10, maybe 20 members -- this little family, family, but there's really no union. There's nothing from that union. When we talk about representative associations -- what associations are they? It still comes down to Bogoljub Karic! He is now best known at the Association of Industrialists, visits Serbia, has his own association in every city, and now for example. such a one advice should give an opinion, a recommendation to the Government regarding the organisation of public works. Now Bogoljub Karić, Mika Smiljanić, Canak, all that society, and perhaps Željko Mitrović, as the Association of Estradic Artists, will send people to public works. I don't think this member makes sense, and it's best to delete.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32196	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milos Lukic and others submitted together to Article 82 of the amendment. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Lukic and others submitted together to the 84th amendment. The government and the committee in charge have not accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 91st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Jankovic and others. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The 91st Amendment was also jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The word is from MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32197	Like this, the minister should accept something. The amendment we have submitted requires that paragraphs 3 and 4 be deleted in this article. Let's analyze it a little bit. You don't mention the agency here. What if she took the job? Who's gonna hear from that guy, is he just gonna wait for the National Service to call him on the phone?- I'm sorry. You didn't predict whether it was mobile or said it was in a specific place. If our people, without a job, were rich, they'd all have cell phones, so there wouldn't be any problem where you'd find him. Why tie an unabsorbed man up? (Dragan Milovanovic, Minister for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs: He was accepted. Is he accepted? Delete 3rd and 4th? (Dragan Milovanovic, Minister of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs: Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32198	On Article 91 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milos Lukic and others, MP Vlatko Sekulović and MP Zlatan Jovanovic, together submitted. I have to point out about a set of amendments to Article 91. It is about the amendments the motionor has accepted on behalf of the Government, and it is about the reporting of the employee, but we are obliged to read and inform the Assembly in the discussion of the details. The same Article of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. She withdrew the amendment to the Legislative Committee. The 93rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of Zivodarka Dacin and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. (National MP Toma Bushetic seeks word on amendments to Article 91) You haven't answered. I asked who else wants a word. Here you are under Article 93. So you're using two times three minutes. Article 91 in the stenogram and in the shooting of the session was concluded in the discussion in particular. Check the stenogram. For every amendment, do any of the authorized participants want a word? I give you my word. So, two times three minutes per Rules of Procedure. Now it's a debate on Article 93. You will be given the word that you are also talking about the amendment to Article 91 and the amendment to Article 93.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32199	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, these are key members. Articles 91 and 93 are the most important, most important and so on because of these members, this law on employment and insurance of unemployed persons is adopted. What's the matter with this article 91? First, the conditions, or obligations of unemployed persons, are strengthened. I'll parallelize what solutions were before or what the current, valid solutions were. The first point is said: "The unemployed is obliged to report personally to the National Service at least once every three months." So far it's been once in four months. So, these conditions are getting tough. Then, paragraph 2 states that those who have a cash compensation are required to appear every 30 days, and it was 60 days. Through this attitude, it is evident that the conditions are tightening. What is worst and most unacceptable in this article is related and related to points 3 and 4 where it is said that the unemployed is required every working day to be at a specific address. Did you accept that? If you accept that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32200	The applicant for the amendment to Article 93 wants a word. The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32201	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, is indeed a pity that there is no TV transmission and that the public cannot see such a cheerful atmosphere in the building of the Assembly and it would be good to know how happy the atmosphere is and how serious things are. First of all, this article 93 is really the most significant and crucial member that should be changed - and why? First of all, because it provides for the same degree of professional training to be sought in the first three months, and then, by the next nine months, practically, there is the possibility of offering any job for any professional qualification. When this law was in place for the first time a few months ago, Mr. Minister even said in an interview on television that it was really not a shame, so what if someone with a degree in engineering comes to clean the streets, because it's some public job that's going to be offered to him. I agree that there is no shame in doing any work, but that there is a need to appreciate the work, learning, investing society in the completion of colleges and in experts who can only bring this society to a better degree of life. In this way, after nine months, since a surgeon or anyone else for a college will not be expected to accept one of these jobs, he is definitely deleting himself from the census and thus reducing the number of unemployed in the country of Serbia, which is not true. You know, that statistic associated me with what one eats only cabbage, another meat, and on average we all eat charm. That way someone will work by accepting every job, someone will not be able to get to work, but statistics will show that there is no unemployment in the state of Serbia. However, what is even more worrying, and it is very serious, is that there is a loss of the right to health insurance. So, indeed, I wonder if there is anyone in any country, including this one of ours, this kind of Serbia, to abolish the right to health insurance and health care. Please, we'll lose our people without bread, they won't be able to feed their family. In such circumstances, it is, already and now, because of the poor standard of living, there are increased various diseases, will not be treated and will we really allow to die of what is not to die for, because if there is no bread money, then how will they be able to give for the cure and for the treatment. I really think we should think this through very seriously, and don't regret it after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32202	Is anyone else answering for word from the authorized participants? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32203	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Milovanovic, this is a key member and a colleague spoke of it in detail, and I would take the opportunity, in addition to these provisions that are most unfavourable, we have in this whole article both in point 1) and in point 2) solutions that are more rigid than any previous solutions. It is said here that erasing the records is possible if they do not report to the National Service within the time limit set in Article 91, which means suddenly, and there were two consecutive deadlines, and at point 2) if they do not respond to the call of the National Service, there were twice, and now it is once. So you can see all these restrictions and this member as well as the whole of the law. If the National Service does not find an unemployed person at a specific address, it is accepted, but in point 5) - if it rejects the appropriate offered solution. A suitable solution is only in the first three months. It is a solution both in the professional preparation and in the profession. Why has the Ministry here not offered any solution that the National Service is obliged to offer an unemployed person within three months a job that will be adequate when it comes to professional preparation and occupation. Now, according to this solution, we're going to have a situation, nine months later, that a large number of people won't be able to accept a certain job, that they'll lose the cash, but what's the worst is going to lose and health insurance. At least he'll lose three months. I don't know, we talked earlier at several committee meetings where the minister spoke a little differently and that this loss of health insurance won't be exactly like that, but it'll certainly be at least three months, and in those three months, various diseases are possible. That's how it usually works, and today, an open-heart operation costs you 20,000 euros, not as someone said a few thousand. Today, treatment at the hospital costs 30,000 to 40,000 for the most harmless things. So that's the key thing, and this is the most important member, at least this attitude, even though it's questionable to us, this whole member, at least this last position where it's said that after nine months every proposed solution, every job offered, is an appropriate job, it's extremely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32204	Is anyone else answering for word from the authorized participants? No, I don't. ) It is my obligation to refer to the legal and technical editorial of the text because, by adopting amendments, practically, MPs of all MPs, by deleting Articles 3 and 4 from Article 91, it is necessary to delete it in the context of the legal and technical order and point 4 of Article 93, as it calls for a time-limit and is bound as a consequence of the amendment. The same article was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is addressed by MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the SNS group's MP. I ask the service to address the president of the Legislative Committee with this part of the stenogram, to do a legal-technical editorial.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32205	Here, this article of 93 is quite controversial and very much, really normal heads, troublesome. He's a problem for all the unemployed. I think there's a little bit of a sit-down to think about, there's a little bit more to be corrected, it can be redecorated, and there's better solutions that are appropriate both for the moment and for the time and for the process that we're in. We suggested that the position, I didn't bring the amendment with me, but I remember, item 1 point 3) so it says, "at the request of the National Service, does not provide evidence of an active job search". You know, there's a lot of talk about this active employment, but to show up somewhere, you need someone to take you in, and who can see you if a certain person won't take you in, the manager, you don't have the opportunity, you don't have any face, you don't have the opportunity to force someone to sign that form. So, you automatically delete yourself from the records. This, three times, has been cleared. Refuses the appropriate offer of employment or offered participation in the programme of active employment measures. Active employment measures, we've talked a lot about this, active employment measures are also employment that is below all criteria in terms of professional training. Maybe tomorrow somebody tells me, come on, now you're out of work, the active employment measure is to be a molar or a builder or I don't know what, so I need them to put me on. I ask the basic question -- I am for every active measure of that part, but not to humiliate people to the point where I don't know where, maybe for political reasons, somewhere for some other reason, and really that part of the member should be corrected. And this point 7 "refuses further education and training". That's where it's supposed to be. In my opinion, this additional education and training is if it is a lower one in education. It's offered now, it's got higher education for people to work with higher education. But to go to that extreme, I'm really not into it, and I don't think it's appropriate for our Serbia or our people. We all need to imagine when we get back to our midst and say, "Please be an electric engineer, if you don't have a street and a street."
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32206	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic and Ana Tasic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32207	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, by amendment to Article 93. The Serbian Unity Party, in fact, followed its amendment to Article 91, which was adopted, so that it should not be specifically commented on. However, this second part: we have tabled in this amendment and the proposal to delete Article 5 and 6 of this article. This is, paragraph 5, which reads: "At the end of the three-month period, appropriate employment has been offered employment in the profession, taking into account acquired work experience and the situation on the labour market". Item 6 reads: "After nine months on unemployment records, the corresponding employment is every job offered." We are asking to delete these two attitudes, because the consequences are that after this, that is to say, by fulfilling these conditions, the person is deleted from the unemployment records. In addition to the consequences that previous MPs have been talking about, losing certain rights, no one has mentioned one major problem: I would just remind you that it is now a deadline for colleges and higher schools, that many young people with great desire and enthusiasm are entering colleges and hoping to be academic citizens and that they will do something useful for this country that they probably still believe in, given that they are enrolling these universities. Out of respect for these young people and for everything they experience these days and what they will experience in the coming years, we believe that the introduction of such a provision, in fact, is not just about deleting from the record, it's about taking away these young people's diplomas. If anyone has a degree in graduate lawyers, engineers, economists, etc. and you delete it from the record, who will know about it. The possibility of him getting a job with his profession is that I'm personally going from individual to individual, from firm to firm and looking for a job. He's not on record, and no one knows about him. It means his diploma doesn't exist. Still, it's a very serious question. We need to take this seriously. If we eliminate those other reasons, receive compensation, etc., I think that such a drastic measure, erasing from the records, could not be applied, precisely for the reasons I was talking about. Let's respect those people who work, who believe in this country, who hope to contribute to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32208	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The amendment to Article 93 was withdrawn by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic at the session of the Legislative Committee. The 93rd Amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The government and the committee responsible have accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Bratislav Djuric. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. At Article 94, MP Išpanovich Istvan withdrew his amendment at the session of the Legislative Committee. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted the amendment to Article 94. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic, Radojko Petrovic, Milan Jankovic, Toma Busetic, Bora Stanimirović, Đura Lazic, Zivodarka Dacin, Rajko Baralić and Joca Arsic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The 96th Amendment was jointly submitted by the People's MPs Golub Rajic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32209	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law on employment and unemployment insurance, in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, and with my fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 96 of this law. Article 96 provides for the possibility that a person who has been deleted from the register for the reasons referred to in Article 93(1) to (8) may be re-introduced during a certain period of time in the register of the National Service. We have proposed that Article 96 be amended and that it reads: "The unemployed who has been deleted from the register for not fulfilling the obligation under Article 93(1) of this Law, as well as the unemployed who, without an employment contract, performs work with the employer during which the right to cash compensation is imposed, have the right to re-enter the National Service at the end of 30 days". The provisions of Article 96 shall apply. The bill also proposed too long deadlines of nine and six months for the reintroduction of the unemployed -- one which, in accordance with Article 93, failed to comply with the obligation to the National Service, or which had to do a smaller job with the employer without a work contract, to feed the family because the state was unable to provide him with a job. With the amendment, we propose to reduce the deadline for re-enrollment to 30 days, and this is also because of the fact that, after removing from the records, the unemployed not only loses the right to cash compensation, but also basic health care. The government's explanation for not accepting this amendment, which it says -- because it would in turn stimulate the non-acceptability of work, the refusal of requalification, favouring the unemployed and the unemployed well-intentioned who do not need work, but rather "free" health insurance, and destimulating the unemployed who want to work, cannot stand. I think this member, and this repressive law, wants this democratic government to make repressive measures to reduce the number of unemployed, instead of opening new jobs and hiring young and professional personnel. I suggest you accept this amendment in Voting Day and at least protect the unemployed a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32210	A stenogram notice is necessary again. So: if, as a result, legal and technical editorials are deleted, Articles 3 and 4 shall be deleted, point 4) in Article 93(1), in the second row of Article 1(1) to (7). Anybody else answer for a word? The National MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić submitted together to the 100th amendment. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have adopted this amendment. On Article 102, the amendment was withdrawn by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. Parliamentarians Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević submitted the amendment together. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The word is from MP Vladimir Garcevic, the authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32211	Article 108 says that the right to material security has a face if it works 12 months continuously or with interruptions of 18 months. I believe that the period for the exercise of rights should be six and twelve months. I think whoever's looking for a job and he's been working for six months, he's entitled to legal regulations, to make a material profit, and for 18 months, that's two years, some occasional work. It means that we should go to a more favourable variant for a worker and not for a service. That is the motive for submitting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32212	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 108th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Golub Rajic. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has an authorised representative, MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32213	The Honorable Presidency, respected people's associates, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, my colleague, Golub Rajic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 108(1), which we propose to replace the number "12" with the number "9", and the number "18" to replace the number "12". Namely, Article 108. The draft employment and insurance law regulates the right to cash compensation and compulsory insurance of the person referred to in Article 105 of this Act, i.e.: employees who, in accordance with the labour regulations, make a profit; a person who performs temporary and occasional jobs, elected or appointed person; a natural person who performs business and other activity independently; as a primary interest founder or co-founder. Companies have the right to cash compensation if they have been secured for at least 12 months, continuously or with interruptions in the last 18 months. Like I said, we suggest that instead of "12," it's "9" months and instead of "18" to stand "12" months. In all the legal solutions so far, the conditions for obtaining the right to cash compensation were continuous for nine months, i.e. for 12 months with cuts in insurance. The right to cash compensation is a very important category for the unemployed, if it is known that 80,000 unemployed are entitled to cash compensation, and they will be increasingly due to the termination of the need to carry out jobs in accordance with the law, bankruptcy, liquidation of the firm, leaving a job without a job in the privatisation process, etc. The bill subsequently determines the height of 60% of the basis set out in Article 111 of this Act. This determined amount of cash compensation, particularly in view of the position of the 3rd member to whom the cash compensation is reduced to 50% after three months, is unacceptable, as it fully disregards the length of the insurance standings, the time for which insurance is paid. In addition, such a fixed cash compensation on the basis of the six-month average of the unemployment income will be largely determined in the minimum amount, which in a large number of cases will be above minimum earnings, in particular given the amount of the cash compensation will be taken after deduction of the prescribed taxes and contributions to personal income. And that's one of the reasons why we're asking for a change in article 108 that regulates the right to cash compensation, reducing the period of insurance so that cash compensation can be realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32214	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The proposer's representative and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment is based on the proposal to add a new title and member of 109a after Article 109a, and was submitted jointly by MPs Hranislav Peric, Radojko Petric, Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Đura Lazic, Milan Jankovic and Golub Rajic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Živanko Radovanchev and Ljubisa Maravić. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments of the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević and joint MPs Bora Stanimirović and Milos Nesovic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word of the messenger of the people is Vladimir Garčević, and the messenger of the people is Toma Busetic. National MP Vladimir Garcevic, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32215	Some of the rules are that when a new government comes in, it improves the standard of living time, it raises the light, and you're offering to take away the rights that the workers had. In the previous law, it was the last month. So leave it -- the last month that precedes, that it has the right to achieve material goods -- not to go on average for six months. We're automatically going into a more unfavourable position. I think anyone who changes power is obliged to improve in the next government, to be a worker better. If that's the case, or if it stays at least as it was, and you're offering aggravation for the workers here, and I think it's unacceptable for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32216	The word has been issued by MP Toma Busetic, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32217	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should bring this story to an end. I didn't answer the previous one, and I'd ask the chairman to say something about the next article and the amendment, to finish, obviously, without television, without everything, that there's no point. The restrictive of this law shall be examined in this article as well as in the previous. Here are the representatives of the ministry. I'd ask them to listen to me. It's your turn. When it comes to the deadline for submitting requests -- now it's 30 days, it's 42 days. Those 42 days, six weeks, it's according to some international conventions. In many countries of Europe and developed countries of the world, it stands for 42 days. Why is this getting shorter? Is there any particular reason? Or when we talk about the basis for determining the amount of cash compensation, they're now being taken for the last six months. It was -- in the previous month until 2000, then came that change and addition when it was the last three months. Surely the last six months have been a more unfavourable solution for all these faces, and you've even said in your explanation that you did it because a lot of companies have been paying bigger wages, bigger profits in the last three months, and then the rules are higher averages. I think these solutions are unfavourable, as is the next Article 112 when we talk about the amount of cash compensation. Here you take 60% of the base, earlier the solution was 70% and there was 2% for each completed year of insurance. It is clear that this solution compared to some previous solutions is much more unfavourable for all users of these services. Or in some next attitude where there's not even 60% anymore, but it goes at 50%. So, all these solutions are restrictive in this previous article, when it comes to the deadline for submission of applications and in the basis of the determination and the amount of cash compensation. All solutions are more unfavourable than they were before and no matter what, they are often said to be free of such solutions when they cannot be realized. It's always better that these solutions exist, and there's always going to be a way for them to be realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32218	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vlatko Sekulovic. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bratislav Đuric. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević submitted together. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and Hranislav Peric. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments of the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Lukic, Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Jelena Maslovara - Relevic and Ana Tasic and National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vlatko Sekulovic. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Sekulović. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have adopted this amendment. Members of the 113rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Đura Lazic and others. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Djura Lazic, as an authorised representative of the SPS group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32219	The honourable presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group believes that this member of the 113th should suffer certain changes and that the words "from minimum earnings determined under the law" are replaced by the words "from 40% of the average monthly earnings per employed in the Republic according to the latest published data for the month in which the payment of the cash compensation is made". We believe that this amendment achieves a greater degree of balance between social incomes and the social situation of the unemployed, as it is obvious that the provisions of the previous members create this difference and that it is visible, and in particular the text in Article 112 points out that. I read the explanation, as a reason for the refusal of this amendment, by the government's representative -- the resolution ministry, which says: "The minimum amount of cash compensation has been determined at the minimum earnings received by employees. In this way, the level of material security of unemployed users and employees who receive minimum earnings has been fully leveled." You see, it doesn't stand here what the minimum profit is. It's all unclear. Our amendment would specify the amount of the minimum that an unemployed worker should receive; therefore, more precisely and useful for the unemployed who exercise certain rights in the National Employment Service. So I would like to appeal for this amendment to be accepted. In addition, if the aim is to address social problems through various social programmes by the ruling majority, then it should not be deviated. With the solutions you're proposing, I think you're stepping down and just declaring yourself a social programme, and basically, you're making provisions that go to the harm of the unemployed and the harm of the workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32220	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32221	I said I'd look back at article 112. I think the percentage of 60% is small to meet the basic needs of the family. I suggested that this percentage be 75% of what was intended to be, so, from the average salary, and the 2rd and 3rd points are deleted. The basic intensity is that this part would be more favourable for the unemployed, his family, and would probably allow the child to go to school and survive, given that the consumer basket is about 13, 14, or 15,000, who knows, says they've thrown out some products. When we have an amendment to Article 115, with all this I suggested that in point 1), the words "one to five years" be replaced by "six months to two years", and in point 2) the words "five to 15 years" are replaced by "six months to four years". So it's all over the place to ease that restrictiveness that's per-worker-defying. She can't be eliminated, because the one who's out of a job, he's in a very difficult situation. But if these rights are made possible, then those in that situation should still be relieved and allowed to find a new solution, a job, etc. Thus, this law and this in Article 115 significantly worsens solutions compared to previous legal solutions. Once again, we come to the conclusion that the law is restrictive, unfavourable and that something needs to be changed in that part. But since the minister doesn't want to do it by concept, then it should be asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32222	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32223	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, member 115 is restrictive, much worse solutions than they've ever been before. For example, you have seen: the duration of the right to cash compensation, with you three months to 24 months, and in our time three months to nine months of work; six months - three to five years; 12 - 15 to 20; 18 from 20 to 25; 24 from 25 to 30. What was most important, the ultimate achievement of this law -- over 30 years, a cash pension fee or an adequate job. That was the solution. The workers are still complaining about this solution that will disappear as much as tomorrow, when all this is voted out. In order not to report again on this article which speaks of a reduction in cash compensation (Article 118).), it says, "The unemployed are relatively reduced by the amount of income generated on the basis of the author's contract, the carrying out of trade and other jobs." Why is it shrinking? Imagine, a man usually receives a little church based on this cash fee and now he's a plus painter and you find that he's earned so much for that painting and so much now - let's cut his cash fee. I do not think that this solution is correct and that this should be amended and accepted by our amendments to Article 118.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32224	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and others. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 115 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 115. The amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Sekulovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 116. The amendment was brought together by MPs Milos Lukic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 116. The amendment was submitted by MP Bratislav Djuric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 116. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. The next amendment is a proposal to delete the title above the 118th and 118th members, and together by MPs Milos Lukic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 118. The amendment in the same text was brought together by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others; and together by MPs Marko Culibrk and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative, a Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32225	This article in 118 says, "The unemployed are relatively reduced by the amount of income obtained on the basis of the author's contract, the carrying out of trade and other transactions or other income obtained." I would personally be interested in what is another way of obtaining income, and who will determine what inspection will do, if 60% on the labour market is little, if there is no compensation - even less?- I'm sorry. Now, if we take something to do, it means to resolve the question of surviving the family, we're going to reduce it. I'd agree if that's the workshop he's got at home, so he's doing the workshop, and he hasn't been reported, he's got it on the labour market to cut it down. There's no problem. If he goes somewhere to do a diary and is registered, so he needs to be reduced, because he wanted to help the family feed, that part should have been defined in which conditions it is diminished; what is possible to determine adequately on the ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32226	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) To Article120. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 121. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 122. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 124. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32227	We skipped something, we'll be done soon. We said the minister had time. Here, a number of 25 years of work experience and years of insurance training, we suggested that it be replaced by 20. We believe that the training of 20-year-old insurance companies has been spent a lot of time and given to the community through contributions and all that is adequate from work. We think that for these people, it takes years to move the internship to 20 instead of 25 years. Finally, I would like to say, this law has a lot of restrictions and given the unfavourable solutions, the Socialist People's Party will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32228	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 129, the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Rudzic-Trifunovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. On Article 129, the amendment was submitted by MP Bratislav Djuric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 129th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milos Lukic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 132 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 132 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bratislav Đuric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 136 of the amendment, the MPs Milos Lukic and others submitted together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 136 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 137 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. The 137th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Lukic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 138th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Lukic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 138 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. Members of the 151st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Miomir Ilic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 151 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bratislav Đuric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 151 of the amendment, MPs Milos Lukic and others submitted together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment, by content, was submitted by Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, but withdrew the amendment at the session of the Legislative Committee. The proposal to add a new member after article 155 has been added, as an amendment, MP Bratislav Djuric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 155. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. Since we have completed a search of the bill, in particular, I am concluding a search of the bill in particular. I declare that the National Assembly in voting day will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to a joint principled search on: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act; - Proposal for a Law on the granting of counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the Republic Roads Directorate. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on draft laws, as proposed by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, we remind you that it corresponds to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs from members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for a word with the order of MPs in the debate in principle and that, in principle, a joint search on the aforementioned laws. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act; Proposal for a Law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the Republic Roads Directorate. Proposed by the Rules of Procedure, MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32229	Dear Mrs Comic, on the basis of Article 81, given that we have opened a debate on points 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda, I propose that we end the debate and continue on Tuesday, to respect our colleagues' right to submit the lists and that the minister can declare it. I ask the Assembly to make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-03-0.u32230	On the proposal of the People's MP for today, we shorten our work in the afternoon work in 15 minutes and at 17.46 we finish work in the afternoon part of the session. The paper continues on Tuesday, July 8th at 10.00 p.m., with a joint debate in principle. The word will be given by a proposing representative for all three laws, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy.
