ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27098	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, on behalf of the Government, I will temporarily withdraw the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. You know what this refers to, moratorium to the work of the judicial authorities in Kosovo and Metohija. New attempts will be made by the UNMIK Co-ordination Centre, so depending on the outcome of these talks, we will put this proposal back in the process in good time. So we're pulling it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27099	I thank the minister. We are continuing a joint principled search. According to reports for the People's MPs, the word has been given by MP Petar Cvetkovic, and the next reported for the word is MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27100	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard from the Minister of Justice that he is withdrawing the Law on Headquarters and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. I welcome this decision from the Ministry and the Secretary-General. We will welcome this decision, all of us, and why amendments and additions to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors have been proposed, why it has come to be in the assembly procedure, that is to say more about them, will my fellow Members say. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we learned that Serbian citizens were denied the television broadcast of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know whose decision it is. That decision was announced by Mrs. Komic. I don't suppose it's a voluntary decision, Mrs. Comic, that the decision was made elsewhere. This decision could not have been made so far, not even ten years ago, because the entire democratic public, both in Serbia and in Europe and in the world, would have turned against such a decision that denied the right of Serbian citizens to hear arguments about and against the proposed laws, or proposals and criticisms that go towards improving and making the proposals of the law more tolerable, i.e. to make laws that are in the spirit of the reforms that have been declared. I believe that this decision, which, using the state of emergency, entered a small door, without any resistance, is very wrong, that it is not contrary to the state of emergency measures, because I will remind you of statements by the police minister that the state of emergency has been overly seduced due to... (President: National MP, I warn you to return to the agenda topic. You've been talking off topic for almost three minutes. ) Thank you, Mrs Micic, but it is very important when we talk about the very important laws of the domain of the judiciary that these arguments are also known to Serbian citizens, not MPs of which most, especially MPs of the ruling majority, are not interested in arguments and are only ready to vote on the bill's proposals. I find this behavior very rigid and very dangerous for democracy and for the work of this high house and MP in this home. I will remind you, in 2001, at the proposal of the Democratic Party of Serbia, five laws were passed from the domain of the judiciary. The general assessment is that these were essential, democratic, advanced laws that brought our judicial system into line with the judicial system of the European Community and developed countries. This law has been advanced in all its domains and all its ideas and aspirations to raise judicial authority to an adequate and deserved level, i.e. to consistently propagate and implement judicial separation from executive and legislative authority. These laws were adopted in December 2001 to establish a government council for judicial reform shortly after the adoption of the law by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with its decision of 24 January 2002. Such a decision would be commendable if it were not for the special merits of the government's Justice Reform Council experts, at the moment when the Democratic Party of Serbia MPs were not in this parliament in July 2002, proposed amendments and additions to all five laws in the domain of the judiciary. These amendments and additions were adopted in this parliament uncritically, based on the government's proposal and experts from the Justice Reform Council. However, what was bad and what later turned out to be that these amendments and additions had completely changed the spirit of the laws adopted in December 2001, that the solutions had been given to the vast majority contrary to both the spirit of the laws adopted and the Constitution, resulting in the subsequent decision of the Constitutional Court of 13 February this year much of these amendments and additions, adopted in July 2002, being declared unconstitutional. Therefore, it was necessary to resort to these new amendments and additions to the laws of the domain of the judiciary. I will remind you, the July 2002 solutions were not only unconstitutional to the vast majority, but they also introduced some completely new solutions, such as a ban on the President of the Court to deal with the trial, or to act in cases, which directly referred to the proposed, government or ministry's intention, to create from the President of the Court an official of the Government and the Ministry who would likely... I didn't hear you, Mr. Secretary. I apologize, we did not attend, and if it was not an amendment to the Government or the Council for the Reform of Justice, and the Council could not give amendments, or to the board of directors, but it is important that, in that sense, it was done, and it was radically, to amend the existing laws. Thus, the presidents of the courts were practically brought into a situation based on this proposal or amendment to be practically officials, i.e. workers, the transmission of the executive authority and the ministry to the judiciary, making them people who were practically concerned about the implementation of decisions and views of the government. They had no right to act as elected judges in cases, or to participate in judgment. In addition to such a radical solution, there were other anti-constitutional solutions, which were put out of force by the Constitutional Court Decision. Not all anti-constitutional solutions, as of July 2002, are put out of force by the Constitutional Court's decision, and we will consider amendments to these laws that are on the agenda today, but the vast majority of these anti-constitutional solutions are advertised unconstitutional. In this respect, the main reason for the submission of these amendments and the addition of the laws in the domain of the judiciary is that of the Court of Justice. We didn't hear that from Mr. Secretary yesterday. I felt, and so on certain parliamentary rules, that Mr. Minister first had to be critical of stating the laws of the domain of justice, to refer to the amendments adopted in 2002, in July, to point out in practice, or in the theory, which are bad solutions, to point to the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision, which has made a huge part of these solutions unconstitutional and then to tell us why we need it and what the objectives of submitting these amendments and supplementing the law are. We didn't hear that from Mr. Minister; however, he can do it during the debate, of course. We heard something else, we heard individual cases and individual attacks on the prosecution's work or the judiciary. I will not engage in the correctness of the assessment of individual cases, but what I want to point out is that based on individual cases, we cannot fully assess the work of the judiciary. No one says that the judiciary is good, that the judiciary should not be promoted, that the judiciary does not have one burden behind the previous time, since the previous decades, where the office of the judiciary was to be on the line of the ruling party, or on the line of the executive authority. It is dangerous that there are indications that both the current government and the current ministry are acting in a very similar manner to the previous rule of law. The criticism of the judiciary through certain cases, through individual cases, through individual arrests, generalises a general assessment of the alleged very poor state of justice and tries to miss some other authorities, such as the failures of the MUP, shifts to the criticism of the judiciary. I underline, in order to be precisely interpreted about this, that I am not against the criticism of the judiciary and that the criticism of the judiciary is necessary, but this kind of criticism of the judiciary, through individual cases, even during the duration of individual litigation, or proceedings, is both anti-constitutional and illegal. I would remind myself of the multi-stage decision-making in the judiciary, and that until a judicial verdict is reached, no one has the authority to assess the relevance, legality and give similar assessments of first-degree judgments or of the procedure under way. Therefore, the criticism of the judiciary (which was the instance of the law in the domain of the judiciary, which the DSS submitted in December 2002), i.e. poor work, is too much work, the task of judicial authorities, i.e. the judiciary. This was very precise and legally envisaged, that even the disciplinary responsibility of the judge was elaborated in detail. This is how we come into a situation where we have a general criticism of the judiciary, or the judiciary, which, as I say, is not ideal, has its own problems and needs to be further developed. But what is basic must be respected must be the principle of the division of power; it is unacceptable that either the Ministry of Justice, or the Committee on Justice of this Assembly, have any effect on the work, and on making legal, or constitutional decisions within the judiciary. Therefore, this urgency, which is now being passed in these proposals for amending and supplementing the law, is this desire by the executive and legislative authorities to have control over the judiciary, is very dangerous. This desire and that request can slow down very much, if not to prevent the proper functioning of the judiciary and its placing on the Constitution and the law of the established basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27101	According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I warned you yesterday during the afternoon session that you should allow the SRS parliamentary group to work fully, i.e. to count 23 and not 18 MPs, after the resignations of the five MPs were established. We heard the Management Board had a session this morning at 10:00, and there was no reason not to hold a session of the Republic Election Commission in the meantime. I don't see why that's such a problem. Members of the Republic Election Commission were paid better than MPs in the National Assembly, their monthly flat-rate fees are 32,000 dinars. They could gather for 15 minutes in the National Assembly building, hold a session, establish what the law requires, that there are statements by the MPs on acceptance of the candidacy, that they were proposed by the authorised proposal, and that this was directed to the Administrative Committee, which could have done a very easy job on this, to carry out the National Assembly and propose to confirm the mandates of five MPs proposed by the Serbian Radical Party -- Dr Vojislav Seselj -- to be able to work fully. You are continuing the practice that you started earlier on with calculations and with the number of MPs and with the completeness of individual parliamentary groups. I ask you no longer question your credibility. We shouldn't be fighting for him and warning you about that. As president of the National Assembly, you should take care of your reputation. So I'm warning you once again, it's no problem to take a break, to ask the Administrative Board to hold a session with that agenda point, that the Republic Election Commission is doing a job that should be done by law and that we are already here today in full composition. Not to mention the problem you made yesterday about MP Zoran Krasic, who, until the end of the session, during yesterday, did not allow him to get a card and use his parliamentary right to vote on what was voted on yesterday, which is only negligence, or intent to humiliate MPs in the National Assembly, which we cannot accept and agree on.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27103	Since you are not informed, I will inform you that the Management Board has held a session today and that the report has been forwarded to the Republic Election Commission. As soon as we get a report from the Republic Election Commission, I will, of course, realize that new MPs have been elected. Therefore, it is not my responsibility to call on RIK, you can also address the president of RIK. What's my jurisdiction, it's the work of the Administrative Assembly, it's done, and as far as Mr Krasic's concerned, you could have told him as your colleagues, he could have asked for it in the morning. The electronic system was configured so, today it got and the thing was fine. Before I give the word to the next one, I'll just remind you that yesterday I set today's voting day, after the debate is over, we'll approach the vote, just so you know. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. You as an authorised representative? Okay. The word has been issued by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, for the second time you are reporting for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27104	Ladies and gentlemen, for a long time, I have not wanted to believe any warnings, some of the holders of very prominent titles in the area of law, which is that all the measures that have been taken in the area of justice over the past few years have led to a very difficult situation in this area. Today, after withdrawing from the procedures of the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, I really have one more reason to believe in these claims. Namely, the essence of our presentation today and my proposal is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister withdraw all the laws from the procedure, so that we can have a better look at each other, more specifically, so that you can have a better look at all those provisions that are challenged by decisions or solutions. Excuse me, Mrs. Micic, could you remind the minister not to throw it at me again and listen to me? So, the essence of our proposal is to withdraw from the procedure all proposals for amending and supplementing a set of laws from the judiciary, to take a closer look at a solution to suspending all the provisions of the law and of the judges, so that you can see all the negativity of the withdrawal of only one part of the judicial law, means the law on the seats and areas of the courts, and so that you can bring all of this into one legal structure, which will mean how many-so-called closures of legal gaps created by the reconstruction of the appeals courts within the deadline foreseen for 1 March 2003. However, in order to explain all these claims, I have to call on the reasons that you have stated for the submission of the amendment law and the addition of the Law on the regulation of courts, where you say - since the jurisdiction of the Courts of Appeal does not extend throughout the territory of the Republic, the Court of Appeal is not a republican rank, and cannot be established by the Law on the regulation of courts. The rulings of the Courts Regulation Act remain valid. You withdrew the constitution of appeals courts in one proposed way, by the DSS promoter. You have withdrawn the law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. I understand that you've withdrawn because Article 3 of this law was really bad and really made it possible for you to give up sovereignty on the part of our country's territory. However, you must make sure that the withdrawal of the law, in general, creates an additional legal void. That's why it's our advice from the SPS that we should establish appeals courts as soon as possible. The sooner we should fill in the legal gap created from March 1st to this day. As soon as possible, all procedures that have begun to be conducted on the basis of... Unfortunately, you're not filling in, you're just withdrawing the law from the procedure in a very half way. You don't edit, you continue to complicate and create confusion in the area of justice. So, it would be best to withdraw all the laws from the procedure, to rework them, and in particular the Law on Judges, which must take into account the provisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia which have suspended the execution of five members of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges of July 2002; the Minister will go away and not hear, but I will read to you in any case - if the Presidents of the Court were to separate themselves from the exercise of a judicial function, which is the basis for their choice, that would make it impossible in the courts, and especially with a small number of judges, the education of extrajudicial councils that decide on an urgent procedure, i.e., which is the most frustrating thing, the delegation of judges from other courts. This would result in irrevocable adverse consequences in the work of these courts. It would also slow down the implementation of the Constitution of established functions in the area of protection of the freedom and rights of citizens, the law of established rights and the interests of legal entities, and in particular would be an impact on the untimely decision-making in the area of constitutionality and legality. In addition, the contested provisions of the laws which provide that members of the Great personal council are to be elected by the National Assembly, i.e. the competent committee of the National Assembly, shall have the subsidiary right to propose justice rights in relation to the High Council of Justice, may have irrevocable consequences, harmful to achieving the Constitution of the established position and role of the Supreme Court and other bodies of the judicial authority. All these solutions would have to be subject to amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, not to the Law on Judges in one piece of a changed form today in the assembly procedure, by putting them into assembly procedure the day before yesterday, without being able to submit any amendment, without being able to get anyone familiar with the detailed provisions of that law, and this was also established on the Committee on Justice, I do not know whether it is on the Legislative Committee. Today, however, the withdrawal of one from a set of judicial laws will only further complicate the matter and create even greater legal chaos. What consequences will come from that, we'll see. This can be witnessed by a number of lawyers and judicial officials in the country. What's going to happen now, when appeals courts don't build up and still don't work on the possibility of taking legal remedies on first-degree judgments, really no one can predict. Only one thing is certain and only one thing is true: it is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to create stabilisation in the area of the justice system. Apparently, the executive power through the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to achieve a suppression and an even greater degree of control over the judiciary. In addition to the claim, the next item of the agenda, which provides for the resolution of judges on the basis of meeting the conditions for retirement, which could have been done by now, but only today, after the introduction of the emergency situation and the issue is put on the agenda. I will once again expose the essence of our proposal, which is the withdrawal of all these amendments and the addition of the law from the judiciary to further work, so that we will not be brought into a similar situation after a month or two, three days, who knows how the Justice Department went. Yesterday a law was put into practice, and today the third law broke, tomorrow it's going to be the fourth one, and the day after that, who knows which one. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, despite the fact that in November 2001 it discussed and adopted a set of judicial laws, adopted in July 2002 a set of amendments and additions to the law on justice, which was later challenged by the Constitutional Court, today discusses justice again. Guys, does this congregation think it's doing anything else, or are we just going to do justice? I hope that we will not be brought into a situation that we can only conclude that the judiciary is under the full authority of the executive, that we will not have to attend, and we of the SPS certainly will not, if the case of the total supremation of the executive authority is declared against the court, since the subsuppression of the executive authority over the legislative one has already been discussed and much has been confirmed in practice. Once again, I point out, if we want to create a basis for legal stability, a basis for taking our country seriously and in international frameworks, we must not as a legislative authority, and I specifically refer this to representatives of the ruling majority, representatives of the DOS - you must not treat the judiciary in this way and in a non-civilised way. Changes in that system may take place once in 50, 100 years. In a year and six months, you've changed the essence of the justice system three times from the foundation. First, appeals courts were built, i.e. An appeal court at the republican level with three departments, which is the DSS's proposal. Then, on a proposal from the government and Minister Batic, you brought amendments and additions to the establishment of special appeals courts and four of them. You went back to your original solution the day before yesterday, and today you're going back to someone third of whom no one's sure is going to be. Well, therefore, gentlemen, once again I urge you to bear in mind that the area of the judiciary and the judiciary is extremely important and that this game with the judiciary will only contribute to the further destabilising of our country, because when one of the three pillars of each state is destabilised, and that is the judiciary and the judiciary, then very easily the state can fall. I hope we won't be put in a position to be told tomorrow that we're not capable of managing and ruling ourselves and that we need some mentor from abroad. In the hope that you will adopt the proposed SPS resolutions on the withdrawal of all these laws from the procedure, I thank you and I don't think that what I commented today will be true, not God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27105	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27106	Mrs. Micic, Mr. Proticu, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentarians, parliamentaryism in Serbia is entering the unmistakable phase. It's impossible to function normally under these circumstances. We urge that the TV broadcast be returned, to ensure that the journalists are normally followed by a congregation meeting. Three laws, since one decision by the minister has been withdrawn from the procedure, are the subject of a compromise that existed between the DSS and the rest of the DOS. The compromise conditioned that some of the laws that were passed here were unsettled, some unsustainable and some unsustainable. We understand that the compromise is one of the ways that different political wills in parliament are translated into legislation, but it is obvious that today we have a real problem and that this is an attempt to remove this real problem, in a way that is only possible. Minister Batic's decision to welcome the law on amendments to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Prosecutors to the procedure, as well as the effort that makes it possible for international organisations, in accordance with Resolution 1244, to try to maintain the jurisdiction of Serbia's judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija. We welcome that. A few questions that were raised here might have been resolved in some other way, or maybe they should have been. I understand the concept that the Assembly Committee in charge of this area has deprived some of the rights that it had previously had, that it proposes judges on a proposal from the prosecutor, that the Assembly chooses prosecutors; we should not have fear of what a committee does because the committee makes up the MPs elected by the citizens of Serbia, because they are presented with political will in parliament and because they have responsibility to their voters, towards the environments from which they come and towards the citizens in total. The argument that different political influences cannot be avoided in the functioning of the relevant assembly committee is unsustainable because the political influence of different political parties or parliamentary groups or coalitions cannot be avoided either in the so-called ". to the independent bodies chosen by this assembly, such as the one who was tasked with proposing judges, and today we are talking here about that that is not effective. The National MP and the Assembly Committees should be given the place they have in all normal countries in the world. No one should fear the actions of the MPs, nor of the congregation bodies, because the only thing they do is measure in a way worth supporting or denying support in the first election to come. That kind of risk should be left to individuals and political parties, coalitions and parliamentary clubs and that we have no trouble with it. It is a simple reflection on the position and role of the MP today in Serbia, and I would say, unfortunately, tomorrow in Serbia, since we are obviously denied the elemental right that what we say here is measurable in the way it is measurable everywhere in the world. It is not good news in Serbia today to ban newspapers and it is not good news in Serbia today to get out of parliament... I listen very carefully to everyone who speaks from this pay phone, Mr. Sutanovac, when you have already called, please, (I was saying yesterday, you were not present) to schedule a session of the Security Committee because the opportunities require it. [[Sagar.]] On the list of people who are proposed for discharge under regular number 35, there is a judge of the Municipal Court in Cačka, Mr. Šojjevic, and with that I have done...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27107	That's not the point, Mr. Baralic. That's a special agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27108	I just wanted to say that the man meets all the conditions and that I have nothing against it and don't, Mrs. Micic, be the keeper of the fire in my case. I answer for what I say here, and I don't violate the Rules of Procedure. I speak politely and stick to the subject and agenda. Or maybe you want us not to talk at all?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27109	I'm just saying that the resolution is a special item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27110	I appreciate the information. I wanted to say hello to the retirement of someone who deserved it, and I guess it's nothing to worry about hiring someone who deserved to get a job. Order him a song. I don't order songs, gentlemen, and I don't throw them to you, and I ask you to behave in accordance with the condition you have declared. Elemental dignity requires that you don't throw, even if you do. As for changing the concept of appeals courts, I spoke last time we formed them and there were four. I would simply like to bring you closer to the ambience in which I live, Cachak must get some political, cultural and any other importance in the Republic, because he has it, regardless of what you do not give him that importance today. It is Serbia's third largest city, as it would say, outside the province. For a whole one Gornji Milanovac is bigger than Užica, for 25,000 is bigger than Kraljeva, Kruševac, Smedereva, for 3,000 business entities is larger than Kraljev, Kruševac, for 4,000 entities than Užica, etc. A more efficient full budget than the largest number of cities in Serbia, except for Novi Sad and Belgrade. If the concept were to change and if there were more appeals courts today, then it is proposed to be just one, and if this concept were to change, delegated to you something that can be thought about and for several districts in Serbia, the seat of the Court of Appeal should be in Chačka. Since it's not a strict topic today, I wouldn't be talking about it anymore today. Once again, I ask you to do the work of the Serbian Parliament in public, absolutely and without the rest, because we are probably no threat to anyone in Serbia from this pay phone. Please make sure that what we're saying is seen and evaluated, don't be afraid of it. Each of us is responsible for what he says and what he does in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27111	The People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and the next sent down for the word is the Messenger of the people Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27112	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposal for a set of laws relating to the work and functioning of the judiciary and the judicial authorities, specifically related to the start of the operation of the appeals courts, their organisation, that is, the point related to the territorial position of the judges, is a technical question, and I don't think it distinguishes when a more serious debate is being held, not a debate that has some other course, because that is a purely technical issue. It is a matter that primarily concerns decision-making when these courts will start to function - not in March 2003, as it was the original proposal, but delayed for 2004. The minister gave an explanation, in any case acceptable - material conditions, i.e. space was one of the main and basic reasons. There's not much to discuss and there's nothing man can blame the ministry that's essentially just one technical logistics to the judiciary and the judicial authorities. What the minister pointed out as a problem is the problem of functioning courts, i.e. the work of individual courts. With us Serbian radicals, it causes suspicion and a reserve of the fact that a set of these laws is passed by emergency procedure. Why? Is it such a need to bring all this to an urgent procedure, right at this meeting, in the very state of Serbia, when the state of emergency was introduced in Serbia? This could also be done in a more normal and better time, as it will take effect, when it comes to the functioning of appeals courts, only in 2004. It simply concludes to all of us, radicals, that you wanted or someone wanted us not to sin against those who had no such intention, to use this for propaganda purposes, because when a simple citizen hears a report on television, especially a report from the conferences that some hold, which are pro-European-oriented, then the impression -- here, these are really going into a fierce fight, you see that they take care of the courts, and the essence is well known. This is a purely one issue of functioning, the technological functioning of this assembly; this issue is being resolved within five minutes and by making a decision by the assembly majority that has never been questioned. But to go back to what the minister put out as a major problem. We Serbian radicals told you, we warned you when you chose the president of the Supreme Court for whom the person was involved, and you did not want to listen. Then you had a deal, a trade with a coalition partner of the DSS, I think of you from the rest of the DOS, as you already call yourselves - reformists, with those from the rest of the DOS, or as they are already called - the original DOS. You didn't take care of it. So, human policy was the product of your political agreements. Whether these were far-reaching interests or some short-term -- time has shown that these others were at stake. In addition, when it comes to the functioning of judicial authorities and all those bodies which and how they mean to this State for the exercise of rights, you are using the same or similar methods. First of all, here's an example of the resolution of the Public Prosecutor from Backa Palanka: a man has been resolved, his name is Trosic Milorad, and that because a false document was delivered to the authorities, that Trosic Milorad (there were no essential objections to his work), participated in the poaching. Who delivered it? He delivered the President of the Municipality of Bac called, by accident or intention, Bozinović, and why? Because this same public prosecutor has initiated some proceedings against Bozinovic. Bozinovic is the president of the municipality, a local powermaker, a local kabadiah, who would stand in his way, he uses his political power, or rather abuses it, and simply solves a man on false charges through his political party. It's something that's the essence of the problems we're facing. It's something that the government can't solve, but it can solve this parliament. How does Parliament handle it? First, unlike the Government that is obliged to create technical and material conditions for the functioning of courts and judicial authorities, we here in the Assembly are making decisions on the resolution of individual courts through the parent committees. Now we have a problem, the minister cited an example of people who are 65 years old and are due to resolve their functions because they are to retire under the law. Wait, gentlemen, we set an example in parliament to those organs. With all due respect to personality, without evil intentions, we have a secretary who meets these conditions, a 65-year-old border, and needs to retire. Now we resent the people of the Supreme Court who give an explanation -- it's by the Law on the Authorities of the Administration, and what this is but the same. We must, in our example, let these judges and these institutions know that they are working under the Constitution, by law, to respect justice, because if we don't, we can't expect them to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27113	I apologize to MP Budisin, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's time for me to look back at what Mr Batic told us yesterday at the end of the session, as a representative of the promoter, the Government, about the reasons for the amendments and the addition of the set of judicial laws. It was the impression that Minister Batic had opened up to the MPs of the National Assembly, that he wanted to share all his troubles with us, maintaining a poor situation in the judiciary and seeking amnesty for himself as someone who could not bear part of the blame for it. He openly told us that these amendments and amendments to the law, above all the Law on Court Order, are required to move the time limit for the work of the appeals courts on 1 January 2004. We have to remind ourselves here that these laws were passed in 2001, that we already had two amendments to those laws and that we are now moving the deadline again and making changes to the existing laws. One basic question arises when Minister Batic speaks of reasons, quite frankly, why it is required to postpone those deadlines, that this is a lack of financial resources and a lack of accommodation capacity, is it possible that we did not know in 2001, nor in 2002, when we went back to changes and additions to these laws. We should remind ourselves of the moment when these laws were first passed in 2001. The situation in parliament was such that the adoption of a set of these laws, as proposed by the DSS, was conditioned by the rest of the DOS by the adoption of the Labour Act. It was a kind of store -- we'll vote for a set of judicial laws, you'll vote for the Labour Act. No one was seriously involved in what kind of repercussion would be and whether anything proposed by these laws on justice could be realized. Furthermore, everything is somehow conditioned to something. This was conditioned, according to Minister Batic, by adopting and establishing a new state community that should have conditions for finding accommodation facilities to start the work of specialised courts, against which the SRS was in principle and in particular when we discussed these laws and tried to convince you with amendments that it was not appropriate to introduce specialised courts, that we should advocate a single legal system, a uniformly regulated legal order, because of the unique legal practice and that we should not resort to anything in the world that is in this form and does not exist. We somehow have everything conditioned to some events, and even the election of the President of the Republic is now conditioned by the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's either terms or blackmail. As far as we're concerned, we can't accept such conditions, and we don't intend to accept such blackmail. We regret further that only three judges were allowed to do so earlier in the general session, and later on, if it does not, it should be done by a general session of the Supreme Court, and if it does not do so, then someone particularly larger must be formed to do so. Who will form this special body, and by which law it is foreseen, the minister did not tell us. However, these may be some short-circuited courts, especially in a state of emergency. Anything's possible. Today, we received a discharge from individual courts, and we see that there was no greater personal involvement. That's what you can see from the explanation. What cannot be clear to us, regardless of the obvious conditions for individual judges to cease office on October 18, 2002, January 10, 2003, June 7, 2002, August 28, 2001, etc., what of what these judges have been doing since these dates? I think the minister would have to explain this to us. It's highly precedentd with this government, so it's possible that this is also one of the precedents that will obviously have certain harmful consequences, and who will be responsible for these adverse consequences, that's what we don't know. I must remind you, when it comes to one of the conditions for stopping the judge's office, which is that the conditions for retirement of individual judges were obtained, at a discussion which was led here by the president of the Serbian Radical Party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who then warned you about it, and only after two years did you do what he told you to do immediately. So I'm going to read you that part from the stenogram. "Before discussing amendments to the law, it is necessary to assess why the Law, i.e. Article 52(1), has not been applied. The law, which provides for the judge to stop working time when he is 65 years old or 40 years of insurance. The position of the 2nd member provides for the court president's obligation to inform the President of the Supreme Court that judges end their working lives and when. Article 53(1) provides that the working life of the judge cannot be extended. Judges of the Supreme Court (these judges you read about today in the paper to stop their function) Zoran Ivosevic, Mileva Gajinov, Nikola Milosevic, Aleksandar Rankovic, Vladimir Danilovic, Milovan Dedijer, Tomislav Šekularac, aged 67, had to be retired in 1.1.2002, on the day of the entry into force of this law, since the previous provisions of the law did not provide for any exceptions. "The question arises why the President of the Supreme Court has not applied to the Assembly for their resolution. The reason is simple: half of the members of the Grand Personal Council decide on the resolution of judges in Serbia. They all meet the conditions for retirement and they're here to finish the dirty discharge business. The Supreme Court president established a working relationship with Sava Mandic, a former judge as a consultant, who is the chief consultant, a man who is on the court payroll and has over 80 years of life. For the further normal work of the Supreme Court, in the entire judiciary to which the Supreme Court gives its reputation, it is urgently necessary to relieve those judges and that the President of the Supreme Court resign, as he postpones the legal work of the court. This was told to you in 2001, and you are only now realizing that Dr Vojislav Seselj was right and that this was well-intentioned here and sent to the minister of justice, for the sake of the general good and the state of justice. Yesterday, the minister of justice also told us that people who commit crimes could be prosecuted would be required to have competent and credible legal holders. We couldn't agree more on that. If that were the case, Dragoljub Milanovic would not have been released from custody, says the minister of justice. He mentioned the case of Bagzi, Limar, Strikovic, Zabunovic, and I just want to remind you that in the case of Dragoljub Milanovic, Judge Radmila Dragicevic, who was suspended from the judge's office and who, after the arrival of the new government, was re-appointed as the judge of the District Court. Their cadre, those who whistled at the whistle, are at the office of the President of the Court, and if, gentlemen, the ones you brought here are no good to you, I don't know what kind of judges you need. In the end, you say yesterday that you need young people, those who know how to get on the Internet, who know languages, who study international legal practice. It's all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27115	Do you want to use the next ten minutes? Yeah. ) Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27116	I'm talking about courts, the general state, the principle debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27117	It's not a free topic of courts and the general state of the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27118	This is what Mr. Minister was saying yesterday and I'm just expressing my agreement in one piece with his debate and I'm getting attached to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27119	It's not about the agenda report from the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27120	No, you can't understand that. Please, Madam Chairman, you didn't know yesterday that voting through the electronic system was the way of a secret vote, but you said it was a public vote. Don't let us discuss the courts now, that's not your thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27121	No, it's yours. Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27122	Please don't yell at me. I'm not yelling at all, I'm speaking a perfectly calm tone, I'm trying to reason with you, and if you don't interrupt me, I'll be done before the 20 minutes are up. I'm talking to Mr. Secretary, and he can come out later, deny me and answer my questions. First of all, I want answers to some questions and nothing else. The Zabunovic case. Please, who is Mr. Zabunovic? We all know that's the man who got into the federal customs administration with the long pipes. We know that the Democratic Party's finance officer has been on several occasions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27123	The second time I warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27124	You know that, too. I know it hurts right now. Obviously, many things have happened that have shown the lack of justice or the police. It's a problem that needs to be solved within the government, which requires legal projects to create such an atmosphere that the state, the judiciary and the police function. Without each other, it absolutely doesn't work right. If the police make an appointment, they'll make an appointment. And if he makes an appointment, there's nothing the police can do. I'd like to refer to the general climate in which the judicial authorities work. The minister also said that the President of the Supreme Court, Leposava Karamarkovic, confirmed that no one has ever pressed against what verdicts will be made, that no one from the government has turned the phone and said - do so and do so, lead such or such a criminal policy. I want to believe that it is, but we have to admit, and now we see that it is so, that the criminal part of society, the mafia that existed in Serbia, which had to be undeniable and was related to certain people of power and government, had its instruments to directly or indirectly influence these same judges. We can all put fire to judges here and say they're not good, they don't know they're corrupt and they're under pressure, but they're probably under pressure, which is under the pressure of those who can really get out of the government institutions, with the position they're in the state, that they're possibly pressing the judges, if not directly then, through public texts, by calling ahead or presupposing that something should happen or prejudge the court's decisions, and on the other hand, that mob had the opportunity to pressure those people. And the judges are just people who look out for themselves, for their families, and who are likely to be subjected to such pressures, and who had no one to protect them. We shouldn't be surprised then that we're in a situation like this that we're in. I say once again that I want to believe that the minister is right when he says that no one has pressed the judges, but I have to remind him of one piece of information, which he submitted to the government of the Republic of Serbia in the form of a report entitled "Court Reform", where he says Serbia's citizens' expectations, as far as the judiciary is concerned, were moving in three directions. First, the resolution of the compromised judges and prosecutors. Second, the launch, running and quick completion of proceedings against former regime leaders and local powers. Third, more efficient, more up-to-date and quality work in the usual procedures. Since these expectations are not practically met at all, emergency response is necessary in order to restore confidence in the local judiciary, which means the following measures. Resolution of 50-100 judges, and by the initiative of the Minister of Justice since October 2001 - a deadline of 15 days. Ending proceedings against 50-100 former regime leaders and local powers -- a two-month deadline. The initiation of proceedings against the same category of persons following criminal charges - a period of two months. Radicalization of detentions, since in the detention of detention the greatest corruption in the judiciary - is due immediately. The change in the relatively comfortable and family relationship of judges - prosecutor - attorney, because for the court they are a prosecutor and defence attorney, i.e. a power of attorney, a party in the process - immediately. Consideration of the ethical category regarding the possibility that the presidents of the courts and judges, members of their closest family, should be lawyers or prosecutors in the areas of the same court. The maximum limit of all travel for seminars, co-operation and the like until the judiciary is consolidated - the deadline immediately. Here, Minister, I see, you have understood the dangers of the Society of Judges as an NGO. Only judges who willingly or under duress had to be members of the Society of Judges go to various seminars around the world. We know how the Society of Judges is financed, and we know who's holding the order. Rigorous discipline regarding coming and going to work. I agree with you that some of these items should be introduced. Not this way how you imagined it, but by creating a general environment in society. It is obvious that in some paragraphs you wanted to directly order the courts and judges to rule, how to work and what decisions to make, especially as the last view of the minister of justice says he will oversee the achievement of these objectives, with the authority to take all necessary measures to implement them, and all these necessary measures should be exclusively in accordance with his legal powers. Once again, I must say that life in Serbia is not normal and I suppose it is clear to all of you, but if they can work schools, cultural institutions, if they can hold sports competitions, is it possible that only the Serbian Parliament, where the voice of the people should be heard, is the danger of the security of this country and that we must maintain this session without the possibility of Serbian citizens following what their representatives in parliament say?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27125	People's MP Bojan Pajtic, right to replication, spoke of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27126	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't think I'd ever have to replicate the statements that turned out to be completely pointless and completely false in the past week's events. Connecting the Democratic Party, or anyone from DOS, at times when they were opposition parties, with anyone who could have been rich in the previous regime, is completely pointless. Such statements, such lies were political inspiration, political coverage and political initiative for the crime that took place a week ago. In that sense, I expect, on behalf of both the Democratic Party and the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, an apology. Who is and which political organisation is connected to the mafia, which political organisation is linked to long pipes, will show the results of the investigation. Perhaps for you the results of the investigation will be surprising, not for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27127	The Minister of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27128	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few remarks on the presentation of the MPs. I explained this territorial organization, concerning Kosovo and the moratorium, that is, another attempt to eventually see if there is any chance, but not to be illusory; I was in Kosovo, with judges from Kosovo, we are doing everything we can to bring their extremely difficult situation into order. Unfortunately, by the lack of a justice minister, by the lack of the current government, there was an international protectorate established and there it came to life and it started to work so-called. UNMIK's justice system. I wish it wasn't like that, but it's a cruel reality. Furthermore, there was a finding that a set of judicial laws was proposed by one party, and then adopted, probably October 2001, something most advanced, etc. Well, it would be so that the creator of that set of judicial laws was not a prominent member of JUL, now a legal or judicial expert of the party who proposed a set of these judicial laws, Deputy Minister Markicevic and Minister Dragoljub Jankovic. The bill of law was in the Justice Department drawer. He took it out of the drawer and just stamped the party that proposed those laws. Because that's what they were at the beginning, which is why we're trying so hard to get them in line. Furthermore, the Council for Justice Reform is being ignored, and it is speculatively speaking of alleged experts at the Justice Reform Council. I do not know what you mean by experts, there were: the President of the Supreme Court, the Vice-President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Federal Constitutional Court, the Republic Constitutional Court, the Dean of the Faculty of Law, the Republic Prosecutor, the President of the Society of Judges, the President of the Association of Prosecutors, the Minister of Justice. They've proposed amendments to the law. Therefore, it is not necessary to say as a matter of urgency that some experts and not the government - the government was against amendments to the MPs. There has been a change and, let me put it this way, a deviation has taken place with amendments to the MPs. The government was against these amendments and these amendments conditioned the constitutional court's intervention. Let's be honest when we say something to say it all the way. Furthermore, it is mentioned that in these new proposals there is a tendency for the executive authority to interfere in the work of the judicial authorities. Find any jurisdiction of the executive authority in these amendments and additions - it just doesn't exist. It was asked, with the right, by Mrs Pop-Lazic - why has it not been proposed before to suspend the function of judicial officials, in order to meet the conditions for retirement? Because by law, that's not the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. So, the President of the Supreme Court is obliged to inform parliament about this, even in advance, when certain judges will get conditions for retirement. There's been ignoring for days, weeks, months; I just don't see what needs to be discussed. If a man is 65 years old, he is, and he should retire. If he's 40 years old, there's no debate. He does, and he needs to retire. But we simply expected whoever had to do it under the law to do it. It wasn't done at this point, and it came to what had happened. As for some alleged instructions or government reports, with the measures Mrs Pop-Lazic read, there were many polemics about one such paper, it is absolutely unknown to me who made up such paper. It is simply not a document behind which the Ministry of Justice stands, so I would like to ask Mrs Pop-Lazic - is there any memorandum of the Ministry of Justice, the signature of the minister, the seal of the Ministry of Justice? Although, in principle, I agree intimately with 90% of what it says and where it is fortunate to be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27129	Right on line, MP Dejan Mihajlov, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27130	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would not look back on this, since Mr Batic mentioned that a former member of JUL had written bill proposals, or whatever he was doing. I think at this point it's completely irrelevant, because it's not true. Secondly, as we see it, the most responsible prosecutor in Serbia is the man who was a Juvenile and who was a legal adviser in JUL, and that's true, it's proven, and we've had the opportunity to see it. If anyone's talking about a relationship with the juries, they should first see if the special prosecutor is a member of JUL. And why did he, as a member of JUL, come where he came from, why was he brought here? So probably because of the various pressure options, he would be politically abused for political purposes. That's what's true, and I wouldn't argue anymore about who's doing what and who's the laws and suggestions, and how, write. It's important whether the proposals are good or bad. We are at the beginning of the construction of an independent judiciary and the draft laws proposed by the DSS are the proposals of a modern judiciary and certainly the practice itself will show to what extent they should be complemented and some provisions changed. We never, not now, insisted that this is something that is incorrigible, which is ideal. On the contrary, we believe that alllaws should respect one social reality and relations in society and that they must adapt, to one extent, and to another, the laws themselves must be the ones to predict how society will develop. That's exactly what we suggested. And, let's say, the draft DSS contained, unlike the previous Law on Courts, that the working century cannot be extended to the judge, and that is now Article 53(1). The law on judges, and that's exactly what the DSS bill predicted. But, according to the law before that, the law of the SPS era was foreseen that according to the Labour Relations Act, a working relationship could be extended to 67, in this case by President of the Supreme Court of Serbia. When it comes to that, we need to be precise and see who suggested it and how he proposed it, and when we discuss the resolution of the judges, we will make all our remarks, but this is one truth, that the DSS bill's proposals were not written by any juries, or anyone else. I would ask you to warn Mr. Micovic, who obviously appreciates the situation, or follows what's on the agenda, to take a look at his ranks, and to see where the Julyers and all the others sit; then it will be clear to him why this is happening today and why there was no fight against smuggling, organised crime, why the Extraprofit Act was not implemented and why only 10% of the funds planned by the Extraprofit Act were collected and why the people who robbed this country were amnestied, only because they moved to one side, ladies and gentlemen, which is on your side. [[Tossing out of the O.R.: Yes, they are.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27131	The Minister of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27132	I didn't mention a set of judicial laws in their original form because they were sent by a member of JUL, but as they date back to a previous time, since I found entirely identical texts in the archives of the Justice Department. Otherwise, a man who wrote for you has a name and a name, named Zoran Balinovac, was a member of JUL and Deputy Minister Arangel Markicevic. That's how much truth she's doing. As for respecting, I don't know, I guess to me, or to the Government, or to whom, the election of a special prosecutor, whom you said was a member of the JUL, although I read by the press - the hour is, the hour is not, it's just the choice of a special prosecutor, by a republican prosecutor, the best confirmation that the executive authority doesn't interfere with the work of the judicial authorities. If that's true, it bothers me, and I called in public. It is the exclusive legal ingenuity of the republican public prosecutor and the special prosecutor is his choice. Best confirmation that the minister of justice didn't get involved in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27133	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27134	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going out for this pay phone, advertising Article 100 and Article 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I tried to be reasonable in my presentation. I noticed the minister agreed greatly with what I was saying. Only Mr. Pajtic, who apparently did not prepare well for this role that his MP club had assigned him, found himself called to go out for a pay phone and to threaten SRS and SRS MPs in general with some investigations that could bring the SRS into contact with long pipes. You're conducting an investigation, we don't mind, we're sure and we know that no connection between any long pipes, crime and the SRS will be found. Everything I said is in the book of Mr. Dragan Vujosevic, Tim Marshall. Here, read it. Besides, Belgrade is a very small town. We all know each other very well. We know each other personally. We know who's doing what. The investigation, if it is as prescribed by the law, will clearly show who he was in a relationship with, who he was hanging out with, who he financed, who he knew he would be brought to justice and who he would be responsible for. We, in that, warmly support you, for justice to finally come to their door.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27135	Replication rights, MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27136	Yes, but I've been called and I have the right to reply, since I'm called by name and misread. I advertised Article 97. It's offensive to us when you connect us to criminals, when you connect us to long pipes. If that's not offensive to you, that's your problem. I'm surprised. I didn't connect the SRS with one word when I was talking about the investigation. The fact that you recognized yourself in that, that's probably going to help the investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27137	The People's Messenger Dusan Budishin has the word, and the following is the declared Messenger Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27138	Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't be interested in who wrote the law, but if we're going to be true to the will, Mr. Minister, and I witnessed when I was in the Committee of Justice, I proposed to the President of the Court members of the Electoral Commission and members of the JUL. I don't think that's gonna be controversial. But let's get back to the law. In November 2001, the DSS launched its proposals for a set of laws from the judiciary from several basic postulates: firstly, that legal certainty should be the ultimate value of one legal order; secondly, it is necessary to create such instruments in order to level the case law and thus create conditions for citizens to be really equal before the law. Finally, we've been trying in this bill a set of laws to address the state of legal order of the court system. That's a fact. Finally, this same National Assembly adopted those laws. If they were not good, then the question arises: Why did the congregation’s majority of these laws then accept it? The same laws change after only a year, in July 2002, and that is illegal, because there was no DSS MPs in this assembly. The new bill of law makes the revision of the rules that have literally proved to be bad in practice. What's so bad about practice? When making changes in 2002, as now, I think three characteristics can be adorn the government's actions. The first hasty, the second laziness and the third, certainly, the expressed desire to put the judicial authority under the control of the executive authority. It's very dangerous. I'll give concrete examples. That it was hasty, it was best seen by the Constitutional Court’s reaction and some of the provisions of that law being annulled. One of the pearls has to agree with me, every lawyer, is a provision that the presidents of the courts can't judge. I'll remind you, that someone would be elected president of the court must be a judge. There can't be anyone outside the court. So it has to be a judge. If it's meant to be a judge, then such a provision simply makes it impossible for him to do what he's qualified to do. Because there's something else we need to consider -- until now, practice has shown in all the hard cases, especially if it's complicated criminal cases, in the first degree it was just the President of the Court. That's a fact. No one will be able to say it isn't. Why did I say it was a lack of thought? Here, you can see by the fact that, apart from the Constitutional Court's reaction and some of the provisions being annulled, the government is now returning the solutions that were set up by the DSS. Example: Serbia's Supreme Court still decides on legal medicines. And how serious the government and the one who wrote the bill of law came up with the reform also shows that in July 2002, instead of an appeal court based in Belgrade and four departments, so, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad, they practically hit legal security. Why? The inequality of court practice is directly at the heart of citizens' rights. I'll give you an example from practice. In time, when a law was passed that envisioned form as a basic condition for the validity of legal work, there were many abuses. So then it could also happen in cases where the legal work was done, when the handover of the property in question was made, the purchase price paid, that the seller's unconsciousness to sign everything in the water, because the law was unsettled. What did the court practice do then? She intervened urgently, and such cases were prevented by introducing a rule that in the event that the unconscious party called for no law of the intended form, it would simply not be possible. In short, the real estate could not be transferred to the conservator, nor could an illegal restitution be carried out, or one who was conscious, by hiding behind such an unarranged law, wanted to exercise that right, was disabled. So that's the principle of court practice. What happened when we proposed in 2001 that there be an appeal court with seats? That's exactly what we wanted, to make practice unique in the whole country, and that's what was missing in our republic. Free Milosevic can blame a thousand things and I will blame him a thousand and one, but one thing I must confess to him. He made of three states one, or prevented the provinces from being a constituent element of the Federation, which was devastating. Even today, some try to do so, and it will again lead not only to legal chaos but also to much more serious consequences. But it's got nothing to do with this, so I'm not gonna be reminded of it. In his speech yesterday, Mr. Minister said that some changes were necessary, because, behold, not only this tragic event that happened, but he set two examples where the judicial authorities were resented, or judges, that they did not act in the sense of the law, so knowingly allowed serious violations of the law. He's listed two examples. An example of the convicted former director of Radio-Television Milanovic, and in another example, I don't know the name of this man, I think his name is Milenkovic, and I remember him more by the nickname that came from Chicago during the mafia. So that's where you add two things that you can't add up. Here's why. I would agree that Mr Milanovic, who received ten years in prison, when the verdict became a forceful one, really should not have been released from custody. That's where I'll agree. It's one of the few things that should have been accepted from earlier solutions. In fact, the earlier law stipulated that detention is mandatory if it comes to sentences that are stricter than five years, and that makes sense. That's exactly what this example showed. If a man is sentenced to 10 years, it's a long period of time and he will, of course, risk and try to back down, which happened this time. The other thing is completely unfounded to the judges and it's not correct. Mr. Minister did not mention that the judge, i.e. the President of the Court, gave an explanation why the other one was not detained in custody. Well, you know, there are cases that are clean, as we lawyers say, clean, but it screws up the police and they turn out to be unclean. This man was really supposed to be in custody. He was to be ordered in custody, however, not under suspicion of committing a crime that turned out to have been attempted after all, but were being talked about forgeries and other crimes, and these two crimes do not foresee detention. Therefore, let us not burden judges with what they are not guilty of. And I'm going to give another example of practice...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27139	Please return to the subject, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27140	Mrs. Micic, if this isn't a topic, then I really don't know what the subject is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27141	We have concrete bill proposals and you can talk about it, not individual examples. I can't see at all... You're talking about justice at all, like we're discussing a report from the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27142	No, we're discussing amendments to the law that are in the area of the judiciary, and I'm putting on quite certain and concrete objections, and why do you mind cases I don't know? Finally, if the examples bother anyone, let them tell me that I made it up. It's just not right. Finally, there's no TV transmission, don't be afraid, it won't go any further. It's not about who's afraid of who, don't throw it away, you know... [[You can't hear a comment from the gym.]] We weren't afraid before, so we won't now. There's something else I'd like to say when it comes to the trial and the Justice Act. You see, we've seen, and from today's proposal, that some judges are resolved in full accordance with the law, but that's how it touches acquired rights. Among the judges to be resolved today, there are judges who, before the 2001 set of laws came into force, had a great right under the applicable law, to extend it for another two years from 65 to 67 years, and this was done in accordance with the law. Now he's touching his acquired rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27143	Please return to the agenda theme. This is a special item of the agenda, and you can then answer and conduct a discussion on the matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27144	It's about knowingly breaking the law, Mrs. Micic. But if that bothers you, then I won't talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27145	I don't mind. You can talk about it when it's on the agenda, and that's the next item on the agenda. I guess that's how much we can distinguish things.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27146	I just want to point one more out. When we passed a set of laws, I said which ones we had been running; and yet it is not as Mr. Justice said it is seen by what now, after a year since 2002, when it has been illegally changed, some of the solutions given by the DSS and which are now in the legislative proposal are again accepted. That says something in itself. I won't say no more so I won't bother you, Mrs. Micic, but what I said is the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27147	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27148	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, I have only a few brief remarks on the proposed legislative projects. It is good that these legal projects were held here in the sense that they were good, high-quality, no matter who suggested them, and adopted by this assembly, and it is obvious that it is only technical questions that certain provisions of the laws adopted should take effect. They were scheduled to enter into force on 1 March of this year. As we have witnessed, March 1st has passed, today is the 19th day, and that no law has been passed that would suspend that decision or the provision of the Law to appeal, cassation and other courts, commercially, for the realm of the King is being transferred to Novi Pazar; this has not been suspended and practically created one legal void, because the act, since the law is in force, can lead to certain proceedings and solutions to a legal void, legal inconsistencies and can cause certain legal consequences. One of the possible and, let's say, the jurisdiction of the district court under this new law to conduct discussions, that is, to judge matters of divorce, which was the jurisdiction of the municipal court; from March 1st, here to this day these things cannot be carried out. The minister explained here that this was done in time in the government by saying that the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law was established on February 14th and delivered to the Assembly on February 18th. There are only 10 days between February 18th and March 1st. There were already certain laws on the agenda, and the majority of the assembly, the presidency or who was already in charge could put these laws on the agenda of the session, or this new parliament, and make a quality decision to move this deadline, February 28th, or March 1st, to the deadline proposed by the solution, means 31st, or 1.1.2004. I don't think we can take any responsibility here, we MPs in this assembly, because the government could have done it before, and the reasons why this couldn't be implemented are listed in the explanation of the minister -- that there were no financial resources, that we had a problem creating a common state of Serbia-Montenegro, that there was no adequate space, that there was not enough funds, that there were, in the meantime, increased judges' salaries, that there was an organised training, and that there was not enough funding, that there were some 20m euros missing to complete this job. I doubt that for this job, if necessary, we will be able to ensure everything and be able to do quality by the end of this year as foreseen in the amendments and additions of these two laws. As far as this second law is concerned, it only changes that part, that certain jurisdictions of certain courts are being moved by 1.1.2004. The SPS parliamentary group also submitted a number of amendments trying to amend these proposed solutions that are inconsistencies, as they interfere with the jurisdiction and rights of the courts, and they are talking about the jurisdiction of the appeals courts, that they are not a republican rank, but are trying to do something else with this bill, to create four appeals courts. I think a better-quality solution is this which has been discussed today, and I think we could support such a solution -- to set up a court with departments, as planned, for more efficient work, at these centers as planned, means to be one court with departments that would have that republican rank. I think in practice, it already lives -- the Supreme Court has a department in Novi Sad, and it is headquartered in Belgrade. Therefore, such an organisation for one court covering the whole territory of the Republic would be able to provide a uniform practice in the trial in that second degree or for some matters in the first degree in the territory of the whole Republic, which would be partially resolved from court to court, because they would not exercise special practice, but would already respect one unique and have jurisdiction in the territory of the whole Republic. Here it is proposed that these laws enter into force on the day of publication, I think that the deadline has already been delayed, that we are in breach of the Constitution, because the Constitution clearly states that the law is in effect on the eighth day of publication, unless there is any particular interest. This special interest has already passed, a period of 19 days has passed, here the members of the government have sworn before this assembly that they will respect the law and the Constitution. I'm asking that we predict what the Constitution provides, and I think it's Article 120. The constitution, to honour this deadline, means, eight days from the day of publication, if these legal projects, as they are given, are adopted in this assembly, by the fact that this is some of our general remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27149	The word has a folk MP Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Sladjan Mijalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the state of emergency in the country, a set of laws in the field of justice has been put on the agenda according to an emergency procedure. It is not good that we are in this situation, which there is no television transmission, because the whole Serbian public, and especially those in the judicial role, all the employees in the judiciary are interested in the conclusion of the obvious dispute that has arisen between the judicial and executive authorities in recent months and the dispute over who is right; and the employees have put an end to the account, above all, Minister Vladan Batic. However, I must repeat again what Gordana Pop-Lazic said, we remind you of the fact that we, representatives of the SRS, were explicitly against the formation of specialised courts in Serbia. We clearly said that, we brought a lot of amendments only on, and this was repeated further with other laws, the High Council of Justice, and there we had 50 amendments. It has been shown that we were right and that the negative selection in the judiciary was carried out by DOS authorities, primarily by all of you, I mean both the rest of DOS and the Democratic Party of Serbia, which has nominated such a choice, but since this is a special point of the agenda -- the resolution of judges, we will talk about this later. However, when it comes to the Law on Judges, we have one quite conflicting provision of Article 7. The law on judges, and it's about the termination of the judge's office. It can't be regulated like this at all. We believe that this is another violation of the Constitution for the simple reason that the Justice and Administration Committee of the Serbian Parliament is not without a previous decision at all, as well as the National Assembly, in an opportunity to dismiss the judge from office under the applicable laws, because he is a member of 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clearly stated that the judge's office is permanent, the judge ceases to be a judge when he asks for it or when he fulfils the conditions for retirement, and that the Supreme Court, in accordance with the law, determines the existence of reasons for the termination of the judge's office, i.e. the resolution and informs the National Assembly. In this case, we have no such decision of the Supreme Court at all. What is indicative is the increase and much higher level of criminality in the area of justice. Prof. Vojislav Seselj, as much as you wanted to challenge the political or not, that's your personal matter, I mean first of all the representatives of the government, has been very well-intentioned in the past months and in recent years exposed to all the criminal affairs in our society, the murders that happened, with concrete evidence, with his personal information which he had and gave to the public, printed publications, books, and we gave them insight; many of you wanted and bought books that were printed for this purpose with concrete data. But when it comes to these specialised courts, I must warn you that one of the numerous affairs is still pending, with all the information being made public through the president of our party, however many information was not available. It is an affair that is under the auspices of, above all, the Trade Court, the Fourth Municipal Prosecutor's Office and the municipal public prosecutor of the Fourth Municipal Court Biljana Radovanovic, and this is the Mercedes benz affair. It is that the "mercedes" are second and third-class, and were intended for Kazakhstan and India, imported into our country as first-class Mercedes, for them the company that was authorised, so the representative, did not pay the state more than 20 million marks (and that is just an indicative figure) of customs. It is that the very top of our judiciary, started by Biljana Radovanovic, through the President of the Fourth Municipal Court of Belgrade, Djordž Mirkovic, via Dusan Simic, who in the meantime has been advent, through Vojikan Simic, who has become the leader of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, Vladan Stefanovic, then lawyer Slobodan Milivojevic, and now the company Mercedes benz is represented by a prominent member of the group G-17 plus Emilija Šarevic, through former Pajkovic, former director of Ineks, Slobodan Sarenza, Mihalj Kertes, all of whom are ultimately involved in the affair "Mercedes benz". He is also familiar with the current special state prosecutor, who was deputy member of the republic's public prosecutor, Mr. Jovan Prijic; he received a criminal report on the record more than six months ago, and we as a parliamentary group asked the Justice and Administration Committee to get rid of the town's public prosecutor Biljan Radovanovic. Even the German state's attorney's office is familiar with all this, but where does it stop? It stood on the Serbian Republic's MUP, with the clumsy one, that's the easiest word, Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. All of this is also familiar with General Lukic. These are just some of the exact and only credible information about one of the leading criminal affairs in our country. As far as we're concerned, I mean the entire SRS and our MPs, we'll continue to argue with concrete data -- not fearing for ourselves personally, for our integrity without reservation we travel across Serbia, because we don't need anyone to protect us -- to talk about organised crime. We will stand up to this and that is the basic point of the programme and the operation of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27151	The word has a folk MP, Sladjan Mijlovic, and after that, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27152	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not speak at first about whether the proposed solutions are good or bad. That's a lot of words here. I'll point out that some of them are simply not constitutional, or impossible. Yesterday we heard from the minister that the proposed changes were necessary, i.e. useful, that, as always, the necessity of the law changed, but little was taken into account whether this was possible under the Constitution. For example, in Article 10(2). The draft law on judges provides that the Supreme Court judges can, firstly, be placed in the Court of Appeal and, secondly, in the Administrative Court, and so on their will, essentially, in lower courts. Whether this is necessary or useful, it is not possible under the present Constitution. In Article 5. The bill also unconstitutional supervision of the National Assembly Justice Committee over the work of the courts is being introduced. It may be good and useful, but I don't think it's possible right now. In Article 7. Serbia's Supreme Court also opposes the right to decide whether there are reasons for stopping the judicial post based on the completion of the working century. The National Assembly cannot determine the fulfillment of such reasons unless it has previously received an act of the Supreme Court under Article 101(4). The Constitution of Serbia. What is prescribed by the Constitution cannot be changed except that the Constitution is violated. What does this matter now? All these changes can happen, that they justify the need for the current state of justice in Serbia, that they are useful, necessary etc., but if the Constitutional Court repeals these provisions, then all actions and all legal acts will be annulled on the basis of them as well. Then we come into a situation where what is considered useful and needed here for some time, for example in a year, can turn out to be a waste of time. As far as appeals courts are concerned, only one Court of Appeal can even a criminal policy in the state of Serbia, which we need so much at least in these times. This also achieves legal certainty, i.e. the equality of citizens with courts. We had an earlier situation when there were 30 district courts, that the maltenes each had a criminal policy for themselves, and even if even in an organisational sense the presidents introduced some newspapers. The existence of four appeals courts in these times and in such a Serbia, it is, in fact, a return to the legal uncertainty that existed during self-government socialism, especially because the legal rules of the Republic of Serbia are still filled with uncertainty and legal voids. As for the existence of our courts in Kosovo and Metohija, I think it is good that Minister Batic has withdrawn the law from the procedure, but I am also afraid that soon, when better reasons are obtained in terms of justification, he will come back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27153	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People's Party Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27154	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am pleased that Justice Minister Batic put his hand on the heart and presented the situation in which our judiciary is located. I agree with him, in part, that it is the legacy of the past. However, the current government is also responsible for this situation in the judiciary. Vladan Batic had at least tried to disrupt judges with a 500-euro salary at least before. However, all the time for these past two years, the legislative, i.e. the executive, has been constantly involved in the work of the judicial authority and thus led the judges to be demoted in their work. It has been repeatedly suggested here that he did not personally suggest to a single judge, and we have several examples in practice that if it wasn't personal, then it is the government and the government's institution. I will remind you only of the case of Social Democracy and Vuk Obradovic, when exactly the Ministry of Justice put a temporary out-of-force judicial verdict. Let me also remind you that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, under whose pressure, whether or not the West, whether these governments, and I think of one and the other, annuled the judicial verdicts for material injury to the proceedings and let the Ship's terrorists go free. He also let a man who confessed publicly, both in the trial, and in the investigation, and in the investigation procedure, that he raped and killed a nine-year-old girl just because she's a Serbian! You have raised the hajku here as judges allowed Milanovic to flee, although he was sentenced to 10 years in prison, and this government, again under someone's pressure, whether the West, whether of its own interests, has annulled and suspended criminal acts not against those who caused the deaths, but those who killed RTS workers. This government has been dividing organised crime for two years now into good and bad. The SRS has repeatedly accused the current assassins, which you have accused, of behind many murders in Serbia. It took you two years to start fighting them, and only when they put you at risk. Then how do you expect judges to start judging by the law and motivated, when you cannot guarantee the security of either the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, let alone the judges who are ordinary people, who fear for their lives and the lives of their family members. All these reforms you're trying in the judiciary and you're trying to say that our judiciary is independent, and on these examples, we see that, it's more like a hickey to me, not to judges of good and bad, not to judges of fair and corrupt, but to judges of obedience and disobedience.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27155	The People's Messenger, Slobodan Adzic, has the word. After him, the Messenger of Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27156	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, speaks for this speaker should have more effect. One of the effects is that the draft act points to some of the wrong proposals, which will be of an impact on the possible change of the proposal. However, there is no representative of the promoter here. As far as fellow MPs are concerned, since they always vote for what the promoter says in the Assembly, speech will hardly be effective on that side. Third, since there is no transmission, it is difficult for citizens to see a difference in attitudes between representatives of various parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament. If we return to the agenda of today's session and read it from the second to sixth, we will see that there are amendments to the law, and at point two, we have a proposal to amend the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and which has a major part of the provisions on the postponement of some of the provisions provided for in the basic law. Under point three, we have a bill that has been withdrawn from the assembly procedure. Under point four, we also have a law where the essential provision is to postpone the application of the provisions of the law. Then, we have the fifth item of the agenda, which is quickly given in the assembly procedure and it is extended to the agenda, and if we link it to the sixth item of the agenda, on proposals for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of the function of the holders of judicial functions, and we see the intensity, then we will conclude that the primary goal is just to control the judicial authority. So the amendments to the Law on Judges and the resolution of a number of judges and prosecutors are actually directly controlled by this assembly, but unfortunately it is not done in the right way but in the wrong way. If we deal in this assembly with questions of dispensing judges in order to meet the conditions for retirement, we will spend a terrible amount of time at this meeting dealing with these very resolutions. The essence of all these changes is that the executive authority is in control of the judicial authority. Mr. Minister just said that this is not true, that the executive authority is not in control of the judicial authority. However, if we have a situation that the minister is also the president of a party that has six MPs here and, thanks to these MPs, it is perfectly normal for him, as someone in the executive power, while also controlling part of the MPs in the legislative authority, to be directly controlled by the legislative authority, and that legislative authority is controlling the judicial authority and we are still coming to the conclusion that the executive authority controls the judicial authority. This is not good and is not an advocate for the democratic system that we all advocate, which is that we have the independence of the judicial authority, i.e. to divide the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial. I would also like to comment on the remarks addressed here on the draft law that the DSS has given in the assembly procedure, which this parliament has adopted. The aim of the law was to keep the judiciary alone in relation to the legislative and executive authority. The parliament passed the set of laws, but later there was a conflict between the judiciary and the executive authorities, precisely because judges wanted to apply the very laws the assembly had passed, which bothered the executive authorities. That's why we have those changes in July 2002, and we're not actually going to have any effect on these changes and we're not going to achieve the basic goal we have today, which is to prevent confusion in the judiciary. That there was confusion in the judiciary was admitted by the minister yesterday in his speech. So we have judges who are again in fear of individual politicians, as well as lawyers who occupy political functions. Subjects continue to walk from one court to another without final judgment, etc. Therefore, the essence should be that we go in the direction of the adoption of provisions and a set of laws in the field of justice which will clearly distinguish the function of the judicial authority in relation to legislative and enforcement. These changes essentially do not contribute to this objective and function.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27157	The president of the DSS parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27158	To go back to the law withdrawn from the procedure, means the law on the seats of the courts. We made remarks yesterday that the law is bad and that it is not in line with the policy that the state of Serbia needs to lead and that the abolition of the courts in northern Kosovo is contrary to the state's interest that the institutions of Serbia function in Kosovo as well, especially if it is in the light that Resolution 1244 does not contain a provision on courts, as it does not contain a provision on education, on education in Kosovo and is thus left to be regulated by the laws of the Serbian state. The very intention that is present here, that through this law, the courts of the Serbian state in Kosovo are abolished and that UNMIK's administration for us has been quite controversial, completely unacceptable and totally inconsistencies with the interest of the Serbian state to move through the presence of its institutions in Kosovo into a process of Kosovo's full integration into Serbia. It will certainly take years, dozens of years, but we must certainly start with it, not take a step back and leave UNMIK's administration to judge it there, and we know that UNMIK is judging Serbs and we know what happens when there is no control over Serbia's state. The adoption of Kosovo's constitution, although this assembly unanimously adopted a resolution on the non-acceptation of Kosovo's constitution, and especially in subsequent talks with Steiner, has accepted it, is a major problem for this country and the consequences of such an irresponsible political act will prove to be. On the one hand, we had the adoption of the Kosovo Constitution, and on the other hand alleged support for Kosovo municipalities to form an alliance of municipalities. All this is about trying to make an impression that someone here is running a national policy, but there is simply no room for it, and such concrete moves show that no responsible national policy is being conducted, and I must say that I am quite pleased that the minister will withdraw from the court-seat procedure laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27159	National MP, the law you've been talking about for two minutes and 30 seconds has been withdrawn from the procedure and is not the subject of debate at this session of the Assembly. I ask you to discuss the laws that are under discussion in a united debate, not the law that has been withdrawn from the proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27160	Madam Chairman, the law has been withdrawn in the course of the debate. Unlike some other MPs, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia are preparing for the assembly sessions, and we have also prepared a debate on this point. We should say that we are very glad that the law has been withdrawn from the procedure and that the suggestions of the Democratic Party of Serbia have been accepted that this is bad for the state. I can characterise that as a very good move by the minister of justice, which the law has drawn from the procedure. Let's go back to what's not good. The July amendments to the law on justice found that the president of the court should not judge and thus the judge's right to judge was deeply violated. We have appointed the President of the Courts to those places, in most cases, appointed good and best-quality judges in order to make the courts good and good, and that is exactly what this assembly has done. By taking this jurisdiction or by empowering the judges to judge, we have left the courts without the best judges. This provision has, fortunately, been annulled by the Constitutional Court of Serbia and we believe it is very good. It also provides for these amendments to the law to make a proposal for a judge a competent assembly committee, not as set out in the law. That provision is also anti-constitutional and it has been annulled. It is something that is good, that finally the courts themselves gave the right to protect their integrity and their position and told the Assembly that as much as she tried to take over the jurisdiction of the judiciary and to come to confusion in the division of power, it is simply not possible. The election of the Great Personal Council was also made by those laws that were annulled in the Constitutional Court from the jurisdiction of the courts themselves, which again became a serious blow to an independent judiciary. This shows the obvious intention of one part or the entire government, that the division of power, which has been established on the legislative, judicial and executive basis, is harshly disrupting the damages of the judicial authority and that the legislative authority is affected by the judicial authority, so that that authority would not, on the one hand, be free to carry out its duty, and on the other hand, attacks against the judicial authority would always be used as an excuse for its incompetence of its own inadequacy. The DSS thinks it's best to help the judiciary stay out of their business and act like it from day one. We think that the judges mostly want to deal with those who are corrupt and bad in their ranks, because a small number of those who are corrupt are throwing away at the entire judiciary and the whole system. I think it's in our best interest that we let them say what they think and that they deal with the courts themselves, because this is about professional things, which the Great is personally bigger and more involved. It is a good thing that the congregation itself will not have an impact on the composition and choice of the Great Personal Council. It is also bad that the oversight of the Assembly of the work of the courts is in place. It shall be placed in the power of the Assembly Committee to control the work of the courts, to monitor the implementation of certain decisions under the laws governing the justice system. I think it is very bad and it is not good for the Assembly to have any right of supervision; this violates the system of division of power, violates the principles of independence of the judiciary in performing its duties and introduces a system of political control of the judiciary. It's something that's bad and completely unacceptable to us. We have serious failures in these laws, and in such a changed one, where it is said (I also spoke yesterday) about the particular reasons for the termination of the mandate, which are predicted as much more severe than the general conditions for the termination of the term of office, where it is said that these were judges who participated in the end of the electoral will of citizens, political and mounted trials, or were cruelly violated by human rights, guaranteed by the Constitution, the law and the international treaty. A large personal council decides and these are the specific reasons for the end of the term of office. So we're talking about particularly dangerous violations of citizens' rights. And for the resolution and termination of the term of office of the judges who have committed this serious injury, it is envisaged that the Greater Personality, within six months, lays down the grounds for termination, and there is no sanction for disbanding the Great personal council unless this is determined. The proposals for these laws now provide that the Greater Personality for infringements of judicial duties are less dangerous to society, meaning these are general criteria or general reasons for the termination of office, can and must within 30 days establish the reasons for the termination. So it's not even possible for the Great personal council to say, there's no reason to stop, it's the norm that the Great personal council determines the reasons for stopping. The intention of the Great personal council to determine the reason for the termination is immediately shown here. I don't know if this is an editorial error or a mistake by those who wrote this article, but it's about a clear intention that the Great personal council has to determine the reasons for stopping and that, if it doesn't determine it within 30 days, it's more disbanding by law. Here we are talking about two completely different things, where you have for those conditions for ending the mandates which are much more dangerous for the social order, for the Constitution and for the Constitution guaranteed the rights of citizens for a period of six months to determine whether there are reasons for ending those rights by these grounds, and for those who are much less dangerous you have predicted for 30 days, provided that the Greater Personally Greater Dissolves, and with another additional condition, that the Greater Personally Greater determines the reasons for stopping. That's what the law says, if you look at it. It doesn't seem that it can or doesn't have to determine, or that it is one way or another, but that it determines the reasons for stopping. It's an imperial norm. In my opinion, it's probably a mistake that's been subdued, but it's obvious that the Greater Personality is looking at and determining whether or not there's any reason. I believe that through the revision of the very text of the law, before publication, it will be corrected, but for us, this provision is disputed -- that unless it decides within 30 days, the mandate ends, and that is where we find this inconsistencies for much more dangerous acts. It would be like saying about a crime of murder, which has a great social danger -- an investigation is being conducted for a year, and a small theft investigation has to be completed within five days, and if the judge doesn't finish, everything else. So we have one complete discrepancy in these two provisions, and I think it should be harmonised, in order to get one coherent bill, where there wouldn't be this discrepancy, because that simply breaks one system that's been established; this is a well-intentioned remark, which goes only in the direction of improving the bill. I expect the Assembly Committee to correct it or find a way to correct it, in order to get a better bill. The DSS will vote selectively on the bill's proposals, some we will not support, but certainly the construction of the judicial system must be very careful, given that the construction of an independent, independent and above all responsible judiciary is a process; there is nothing that can be "break over the knee" and there is no need to prevent judges from working through various political influences. We will always fight for this, and that is why the draft laws that we have given in the 2001 assembly procedure have just gone in the direction of building a judicial apparatus that would be independent of political influence and that would have power and opportunities, if such a climate were in society and in this assembly, that elections with corrupt and irresponsible judges would contribute to the construction of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27161	The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27162	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday when I listened to Mr. Minister's presentation, I thought of a situation where Thomas Karlaj, in a similar position, said that, with good justice, the most rare things in the world were pearls and diamonds. Approximately, in such a negatively and pessimisticly defined position of the judiciary, unfortunately, the Serbian judiciary is probably one of the worst in Europe. It has not been remembered in any European judiciary that 52% of the convictions relating to drug dealers, so drug trafficking, arms trafficking, are conditional convictions. Any paroleal conviction to a drug dealer is a conviction for a young man whose drug dealers sell drugs in schoolyards, cafes, on the street. It has not been remembered in any European judicial system that there are 18 conditional convictions for one person. The second one has to be judgmental, but the second one can't be conditional. It has not been remembered that some drug dealer is selling drugs in the school yard and that immediately after being caught on the scene in the middle of the act, he is released from the execution of the crime. It has not been remembered that the assassin of the prime minister was released, not to be detained, to be sentenced by one of the Greater Second Municipal Court eight days in custody, the second-largest of the Fourth Municipal Court freed him of the detention. This has not been remembered in any European judiciary. There are several good solutions and several good directions in which this set of judicial laws is going. First, establishing a better and more efficient functioning of the judiciary. The great personal council, no one can argue anymore, in this way will be completely unblocked and no one will be able to call for a more difficult circumstance or judgment of the Constitutional Court. Only by the rules of procedure, only at the level of the Supreme Court, is the establishment of a large personal higher. This large personal higher on the basis of the criteria of expertise, without political interference, with a strict division of legislative, executive and judicial authority will be a body that will bear responsibility and have an obligation to settle matters in Serbia's judiciary. It will no longer be possible for pensions and for the termination of employment to be decided by the persons whose work experience has long ceased, and for the Grand Personal Council to be dominated by persons 67 years old and who need someone to retire. Of course they won't send anyone out to retire and of course the judiciary will look what it looks like. The next quality of this set of laws is the fact that Serbia's judiciary is in line with the highest European standards. The High Council of Justice, a depolitised body, a body exclusively based on the profession, whose criteria are exclusively based on the professionality and integrity of judges, will be solely responsible for proposing judges to the National Assembly. This is one of the highest European standards that we have in the area of justice at the moment. Next, what's also important is that this set of laws doesn't make Podokin's villages of justice. This set of laws harmonizes the judiciary, harmonizes the start of a new judicial system with objective circumstances, with financial circumstances. You don't have to be hypocritical and you don't have to dramatize that much. It's just that what happened happened happened, and this situation needs to be tackled by accommodation capacity. We know very well - the idea was to place some new judicial authorities in some former federal institutions. Those who were constantly tired of making the Constitutional Charter and why the Constitutional Charter was brought so long, those who kept their positions in the federal state best know why it didn't happen. It doesn't matter at this point. We must support this set of laws for the functioning of the judiciary. The debate on this set of judicial laws was very often coming out of the context of the topic, very often we had the thesis there that in no way could stand, it was that the Constitutional Court annulled some laws. So if you follow the Constitutional Court practice, you will see that certain provisions have been declared unconstitutional, classified parts of these provisions, but never happened with one whole law, in the history of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the stories of this debate being closed to the public are completely incorrect. There is no direct transmission, but journalists and how they can monitor what is happening in the Serbian Parliament. The nature of the state of emergency is exactly like that, and I'm sure my esteemed fellow MPs know very well, that I can't get information about the reasons for introducing an emergency to the public and that it's impossible to control in the course of regular TV transmissions such a situation. I think it's in the general interest and it's not right to talk about it that way. The stories that courts have not acted for two weeks or three weeks and that it is a complete disaster -- it is a disaster that courts do not act, but it is a disaster that courts do not act for 50 years, it is a disaster. If we have come to this position that we need to extend the validity of the law for a few days and that there has been a situation for several days that there is no legal possibility for courts to act on certain cases, it is the least of the problems when we know that the efficiency of the courts is 10-15 years in a particular court case. We must, therefore, talk seriously and responsibly about this area, because it is an area that is most sensitive to the existence, both personal and any other integrity of man. That is why the DOS parliamentary club will vote in favour of this bill. I also call on other MPs to be friends, not Justice Minister, not DOS MPs, not their political parties, but to be friends with their children first. Well, in order to protect Serbian youth from drug dealers, we have to have a healthy judiciary. So vote for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27163	The People's MP Lazar Marjanski has the word, followed by the MP Dragisa Djokovic, and this is the last registered speaker. The SRS parliamentary group is available for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27164	Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister Batic, I address you the most. Everything pretends to make the people better. Whether the laws are good or not, I'm not getting into it. Whether they're constitutional or not, they'll solve some expert group, etc. Is there a crime in the Justice Department - I'll give an example that it exists. Should any judges who violate basic judicial rights be changed? Yeah. It's all good, but an ordinary man, an ordinary citizen, cares about everything we say. He wants results. He doesn't care if it's constitutional or unconstitutional. Do you know, Minister, who's to blame? It's your fault. In the people, the minister of justice is a god and a beating and you can justify that Karamarkkovic is not, that you have no right to order it, etc., in the ordinary people, the minister of justice is guilty of everything. If it's your fault, that's your answer. Ask us - give us concrete examples of crime in the judiciary. Here, I'm giving you a concrete example. Judge Kurdic Jovan, judge of the Trade Court in Belgrade, has committed a number of violations, has documentation, complete. He brought some crazy solutions where everyone laughed. If you need it, I'll deliver it to you, just tell me when. One more thing about the people you're looking for, looking for names, if you need names, I'll give you names and what they did. Anyway, you're probably right, you're probably right to be changing some judges. That's not what I'm getting into. Whoever changes those judges, that's up to you. You have a majority in the Assembly. Who's stopping you from passing the laws that work? Who kept you from having the judges you're taking off now? Nobody. One thing I am interested in as an MP and as an ordinary citizen: when will there be order in the judiciary? I'm not saying it's a mess, but probably there's a part of the court that's a big mess. Deal with the mob -- who's stopping you from doing that? As an ordinary citizen, as an MP, I can't forgive the police, the police minister that he didn't have a single tip that he was going to kill the president; it's a lie, and he knew it, as an ordinary citizen, he knew it. What if he didn't know? Why didn't he resign, why didn't the minister resign immediately? Mr. Batic, if you can't solve this, resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27165	Dragisa Djokovic, a folk MP, has the word, and this is the last registered speaker in the principle debate after the hearing's applications. The time available for the DSS parliamentary group is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27166	Ladies and gentlemen, what I am the last speaker today is probably a random coincidence with yesterday's candidate for prime minister, i.e. the prime minister, now prime minister, who put Kosovo as the last priority, i.e. under point seven. I'm counting on it to be an accident and it was seven and I happen to be the last speaker today. But what I'm saying is that this judicial situation is not good at all. The assembly decisions of this assembly, some before us, established a judicial system of the Serbian state. The bill, for example, which has been withdrawn, did not have to come, because as it is done in this government that has never honored this assembly to file a report on its work, as it is, seriously or unseriously, when a proposal comes to the Assembly, so it retreats. I knew what was coming, and in the context of that, I was looking for a conversation with Mr. Minister on this subject and on a similar subject, because otherwise I am a member of the Coordination Centre, but only a member; we meet once in three months, and there others are wondering. I sent a memo to Mr. Secretary, which I will brief you on, as an election quote for the Federal Assembly in 1996. He says that according to the election commission's report on the SPS, JUL and New Democracy in the village of Gornja Prekaza, 605 voters voted (one of those 605 voters, respected gentlemen, was Adem Jasari); in the infamous Likovac 125, etc. The president of the election commission was then Mr. Blagoja Jaksic, whom the assembly dismissed from the seat of the municipal court president in Kosovo Mitrovica. Now, Blagoje Jaksic, by the Serbian government's decision, has come out as "the official messenger", appointed high-ranking Serbian government official who is to be the undertaker of the Serbian judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija. Gentlemen, please, if we're already talking about who was in JUL or where, I don't know where Prijic was, I know that Mr. Blagoje Jaksic is the man who served all the regimes, who has done all the dishonesty, and on this topic I asked for a conversation with the representative of the government; Mr. Batić knows well, because he has come to us many times in Kosovo Mitrovica, I have pictures and other things, and he tells me that he is not in charge, that the maltenes are not informed. Turns out, there are now many uninformed, as Mr Batic said yesterday that people in Kosovo and Metohija should not be given false hope. I don't know if people are given false hope when they are promised a return from the army and police or given false hope when Minister of Social Affairs Gordana Matkovic suspends payment of parental and child benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27167	People's MP, please return to the agenda. Three minutes on a withdrawn proposal and a problem that we know very well exists. I remind you that there is a united debate on the laws in the field of justice and I ask you to return to the topic of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27168	I understand your nervousness. Dear Master Pajtic also said a lot of things that are not at all related to the agenda, including drug traffickers, etc. It's probably a matter he knows better than I do. I'm not a lawyer, and I don't know that, but it wasn't on the agenda either, so you weren't that observant. I'm not talking about this because of television, because unfortunately, to put it that way, my landscape can't watch the RTS program thanks to this government, the RTS program can't be seen down there, but I'm just saying to show you the essence of the problem that I couldn't bring to anyone from the government because they didn't want to hear it. So it is a false hope when you tell the people that you are even asking for the return of the army and police to seek out a Serb entity in Kosovo, and on the other hand you are giving Rada Trajkovic four million dinars for the renovation of the Belgrade apartment, on the other hand, you are abolishing one Serbian institution at a time. It is a false hope for you, respected Mrs. Komic and respected Parliament. Otherwise, if that man is already like this and the Serbian government has appointed such people to such responsible functions, we can only expect that the regulation will make this real, which is unfortunate, gentlemen. Such people, with such files, with such a past, need to resolve the issue of Kosovo's judiciary, and this assembly of such people has resolved it is clear why, here is the evidence and everything else. For example, they may state that there are 48 designated persons in the judiciary of northern Kosovo, that even 78 criminal cases, 210 litigation cases, etc. have been resolved so far in the past year. Even the US bank in Kosovo, the Micro-enterprise Bank recognises guarantees and certificates from the Serbian court. There's no UNMIK justice - forget about it. It's an Albanian judiciary, gentlemen dear. Here's my notebook, but I'm not going to quote it now, when Mr. Batic was in a meeting with Kadiya, when he performed very well, but what happened behind that. I won't remind the Honorable Minister of what he said then and what was said then, that it wasn't just the appointment of one judge, one notary, but also the court interns and administrative and technical staff, the return and security and everything. What obligation, respected friends, has UNMIK respected, that the international community has respected towards the Serbs so that we have to run, which would be said -- like roaches before the ore, so that we can abolish our institutions? Come on, let's stop that, please don't let this go through the regulation or anything else. I once again appeal to the minister and to the government, to all those who listen, that this criminal whom the government has appointed to arrange for the judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija is eliminated from all this, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27169	National MP, you have shown clear disrespect for this assembly for six minutes speaking of an issue that is not on the agenda. Taking into account the reasons and seriousness of the subject, it is only my duty to warn you, because you are warning every chairman to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and the speeches within the agenda. The word is made by Minister Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27170	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have heard the presentation of a number of MPs. We're back to square one again. Most people, on the one hand, plead to the maximum affirmation of a free, independent, independent judiciary, while, on the other hand, for some of the decisions of that same judiciary accuses the executive authority or specifically of me as a representative of the executive authority for this portfolio. So you have to deal with yourself who's who and who's what. It's just one detail. And part of the argument Mr. Djokovic made can simply be accepted. I think Mr. Djokovic knows what the position of the minister of justice is on the subject of the Kosovo judiciary and what performances were in Zvecan and in the fields, not to say a fight with Steiner; but, Mr. Djokovic, you yourself said you were a member of the Coordination Centre, the Coordination Centre is responsible for what the Government should do in Kosovo and Metohija, so bring these remarks to the Coordination Centre itself. What I want to say is this: there will be the next item of the agenda, the proposal of the Justice Committee, and I won't settle it, it's about the retirement of a number of judges, and there's no will and there's no selection, no hajka, no haranga, no anything else, no lustration, so the aim of the judiciary is to establish the principle of responsibility as in all other public functions. Responsibility must be the ultimate axia of a democratic, serious and responsible authority, the paradigm of one such authority, everywhere; and here it doesn't matter who he proposes, who he is, who he is, or the judge, but he has to make an account. Under some syntagmic of an independent judiciary or free judicial conviction, you can't do something that encourages, bold, disturbing criminals. That's why I'm saying it. I've got a report here on the criminal charges filed and the procedures against the public contractors, members of the so-called members of the so-called state. The Zemun clan. If you could just listen for a second. So, a large number of murders, kidnappings, extortion, illicit carrying of weapons, drug trafficking, for 20 and several members of the Zemun clan -- none of them were in prison, no convictions have been found. So, if it's expected to keep quiet and it's going to be a non-interference in the work of the judicial authorities, it's a mistake. Every day I will speak and repeat once again - this is a crucial moment for Serbia, for its survival and for its future. We'll deal with crime. And I repeat again -- there will be justice in Serbia even if the world fails.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27171	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Regulation of Courts (Seconds) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragor Hiber, Djordje Mamula and together Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Peric, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. The National Assembly conducted a joint principled search under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Orders was discussed. Is anyone looking for a word, the secretary warning me, or not? So, we have concluded a principled search and we are passing the law, given that the debate was united. So, the bill on amendments and additions to the Courts' Law, as the first in a row, and I ask you to follow. I have read the amendments you have received, the reports of the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, and I would also remind you that we have conducted a joint principle search. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The word is by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, so the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27172	Dear Mrs Comic, honourable fellow Members of the People, on the basis of Article 137. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I propose that the debate should take up to three minutes, and I suggest that the Assembly declare it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27173	I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Sinisha Mitrovica, deputy president of the Doss-Reform Serbia's parliamentary club, to hold the debate in detail for three minutes and ask the MPs to plead. For 106, against 73, the abstentions, did not vote 21, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of Parliament MP Sinisha Mitrovica's proposal that the debate in particular lasts three minutes after the amendment. We move on to a review of the draft law in particular, to Article 1. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? I apologize to the applicant for the amendment, the minister asked for a word, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27174	On behalf of the Government, as a representative of the proposer of this item of the agenda, we accept amendments to Mr George Mamula's 5th People's MP and to Professor Drago Hiber's 9th People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27175	With the finding of amendments accepted by the motionor, I ask again if the applicant of the amendment to Article 1 wants a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27176	It is proposed that Article 2 be deleted, which is the consequence of the first amendment, which we proposed to establish an appeal court based in Belgrade and departments outside the seat of Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is governed by a special law. The essence of the proposal is that it is not four appeals, but one with departments, because we believe it fits the budget, regardless of what the proposal points out is that there is no need to allocate specific funds. The conversation with Mr. Djelic, as I understand it, still requires certain means and therefore a simpler solution is proposed. So, in a certain way, this is a technical question, but we believe that on the other hand, an appeal court with several departments would contribute to a level playing field. Judicial practice is not a source of law, according to theory, but in practice it is a source of law, so it would be uninvited for four appeals courts to have four different case-laws on some issues. We already have a situation now that some district courts as second-degrees in the same legal matters take different views, so this causes confusion in the application of rights. That's why it's important to level court practice and that there's an appeal court with departments. We believe that this would ensure a uniform application of rights, as many laws as to how they have been passed over the last two years, and so before, have no good solutions. When it comes to detention, I refer to it as an example, you have different solutions regarding the interpretation of the provisions on detention that have been very relevant lately, and the point is, when it comes to detention, that they are not good legal solutions. Laici in the Serbian government who are calling for judges to sin -- I tell the layman, because there is no competent expert in the Serbian government on the issue of detention -- say judges are wrong, and that is not true. We suggested, when it comes to detention, in 2001 German solutions, 16 amendments were made to the Code of Criminal Procedure, and none was adopted. Therefore, bad solutions are in laws. That is why I believe that this amendment of ours should be accepted, because it would be in line with what has already been adopted. Let me remind you, these solutions were already adopted once, so there was an amendment to the law on July 18th last year and we got what we have now and therefore the amendment to Article 2 is the logical consequence of the adoption of the first amendment, so I took the opportunity to explain this first amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27177	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27178	These amendments, the DSS primarily wanted the principle of equal decision-making in all matters and citizens' equality to be fully implemented. Uniting of court practice is only possible if a second-degree court, and in this case it is an appeal court, is a republican court, where opinions will be taken at special sessions in judgment in certain matters. In this way, we are not improving the situation, on the contrary, we are only making it worse -- silencing, sharing of courts, not the seat of an appeal court, if it were in Belgrade, but the formation of four appeals courts, as one said, of a republican rank. You cannot have four courts of republican rank in one republic, but only one, as originally predicted, of appeals courts with seats, and the formation of four appeals courts is in favour of those who advocate the federalisation of Serbia, or those who dream of Serbia's division dream. Achieving such a principle would just have disastrous political consequences for Serbia, as this would give rise to those who write the Vojvodina Constitution, which bring various constitutional acts, in various ways, to get their own court to decide and contribute to the independence of these regions, not to say the statehood of those regions. We as DSS have therefore suggested that we have an appeal court based in Belgrade, a republican rank, and four departments. This solution is both cheaper and more economical, and I think it's better for the state, for the integrity of the state. That is why it is very good to accept this amendment and show the intention of equating judicial practice and to preserve judicial integrity in one court of the Republic, that is to say, to prevent the clumping of courts, court practice and to open the door to various constitutions of the Vojvodina and what kind of constitutions someone does not dream of. That's one thing. Another thing, why is it in someone's interest to have more smaller continents? Because then it's easier to put political pressure on smaller continents. It is much more difficult for a single court of appeals in Serbia, a republican rank, to exert political pressure. This is how local powers in these cities where the seat of the appeals courts will be able to exert political pressures, politically end and create judicial practice. That is why this solution is the opposite of the interest of Serbian citizens, the interest of Serbia's integrity and the principle of justice and justice, which I sincerely believe we are all truly handling. That is why the DSS will be against this and in another assembly, it will advocate one judiciary that will paint the unity of the state, the case law and that will be defended by the split of Serbia, and this is just opening up these possibilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27179	Do any of the other participants want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the date foreseen for the entry into force of this law and for the formation of appeals courts, it seems to me a little bit and that it is essential that we now engage so much in the debate on whether there will be an appeal court at the level of the Republic of Serbia, as it has been regulated so far, or whether there will be more appeals courts, since by 1 January 2004, elections in Serbia will certainly be called and that some other assembly in some different assembly here will edit the judiciary in a completely different way. One's pushing for regionalization, the other's pushing for federalization, and this is all about preparing for us not to have to after that imaginary constitution, which we can assume is going to have to re-change this law. We won't have to change it. A whole new law will be passed to treat the issue of justice. As far as we SRS MPs are concerned, we are completely indifferent to the fate of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27181	The word has the People's Messenger Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27182	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for taking your time, but I would like to comment on some arguments in favour of this amendment, expressed from this pay phone. It is equally acceptable to me that there are four appeals courts and that there are one and three departments. Whichever solution is better, will be shown in future practice. There are theoretical or advance arguments both for one and the other solution, but hardly in these arguments, at least not in this way, is an argument of equating judicial practice. I don't want to get the impression that only one person thinks about good jurisprudence, and the other one ignores it, especially when those who allegedly think about it ignore certain circumstances. Courts of appeals are second-degree courts and their role in no judicial system is evening the case law. They solve legal drugs, most often deal with facts, and by applying the law only to some extent. The role of unifying court practice is in every judicial system, so it will also play in ours, courts that have a cassation role, which is the Supreme Court of Serbia. He will be casasions in relation to the decisions of the appeals courts. This argument, which has been made, is legally very little. With that in mind, I would say that there was a confusion here in the debate over the meaning of the provisions that the Supreme Court also solves regular legal remedies, and the idea of moving away from earlier solutions. No, the legislators of the basic set of laws overlooked that the Supreme Court was second-degreed in relation to administrative and therefore also resolved on regular legal remedies. It's about the failure of the original proposed set of laws. So I suggest that this amendment not be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27183	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Replication to the presentation of the Chairman of the Justice Committee. The basis for the replica is wrong interpretation. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27184	I must say, I don't know what it's like when it comes to appeals courts in other countries. Our amendment was managed by our opportunities. It is true that in the theory of judicial practice is not a source of law. In practice, it is. Once the district court's position on some issues becomes binding. The judges of municipal courts take care of how many verdicts they will have, as far as they don't. The district court ruled that way and it remains an example of reputation for the following cases. The judge takes care of what his outcome will be in each case, and that has affected the subsequent choice. Therefore, court practice is a source of law. I know the books were written about not being, however, we were just handling that this solution would be practical. So the argument is not from the sphere of politics, but, if I may say so, from the sphere of the profession, and the practitioner.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27185	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Peric, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27186	Dear People's MPs, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulating of Courts, which is a matter of intertwining jurisdiction between district and municipal courts for criminal offences, first of all, according to the economy and to minors. We are proposing, since, according to the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter - Article 20, the alignment of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Criminal Code of the SRJ should be carried out, until it remains as it has been. So, the district court should be in charge of crimes against the economy, because it's still more serious crimes. We suggest that minors still have the jurisdiction of the district court, since it is nevertheless a specific form of legislation and criminal acts and that the efficiency, expertise and experience of the district courts give priority over the availability of municipal courts to minors. Since minor crime is even on the rise, it is even considered in several European countries to establish some new courts for minors. I think this should be adopted, first of all, so that there is no interference between jurisdiction, until it is harmonised between federal criminal law and the Republic legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27187	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27188	Ladies and gentlemen, just a reminder, in July 2002, there were several amendments that envisioned changing the jurisdiction of district courts to conduct proceedings against minors. I believe that the proposal was presented by the Association of Judges or by some other company, and several MPs explained the amendments that proposed the transfer of the jurisdiction to conduct criminal proceedings against minors to municipal courts. Two intensities were opposed at the time. It is one of the facilities available to conduct a procedure or to defend the availability of courts to minors, since a large number of criminal proceedings are being conducted towards minors and since, due to the poor economic situation, minors are not able to represent their interests in an adequate manner in front of the district courts, and this is opposed to the tendency to conduct quality proceedings against minors. Since it is a specific legal area and a specific section of the population, therefore, for minors who have committed crimes, the majority of the population rejected the existing amendments that proposed the transfer of the proceedings to municipal courts after July 2002. Now, in March 2003, the government, supported by the assembly majority, proposes to translate the proceedings against minors into municipal courts. So it's about discontinuity. I think it is really necessary to ensure that more quality procedures are conducted towards minors than the availability of judges, more specifically the availability of minors to these courts, but it is really difficult to explain why such discontinuity is being made, and in this case it is confirmed that the Government has no clear views on the judiciary and that it is changing them from case to case. Also, as far as jurisdiction is concerned with the conduct of proceedings in the area of economy, we think that, given the severity of the crimes that can be committed in the area, it is still better for the district courts to have jurisdiction in the area as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27189	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27190	According to the amendment to Article 3. The bill is amended and it reads: "Article 22, paragraph 1 (2), the words "criminal acts of corruption" are added before the words "the federal law" and the words "the federal law" are replaced by the words "criminal law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia". What federal law? More specifically, it should stand - the criminal law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Therefore, this amendment aims to specify the provision for better application. You haven't read the Constitutional Charter to the end. The Academy of Science is looking for the president. Come in. So, in March 2002, after the adoption of the Law on Court Order, a special type of crime, called - criminal acts of corruption, has been introduced into our legal system, sanctioning the phenomenon that has taken place with us and which poses a major threat to the state, freedom and rights of citizens. It was a really good change of criminal law that everyone supported here. The dangers of corruption and social efforts to contain it are appropriate to judge the basic forms of criminal acts of corruption in the first degree better equipped and more professional, environmental, courts. Finally, in these courts there are still more experienced judges who have more knowledge. I must say, otherwise, these crimes of corruption did not significantly increase the fight against corruption. So it wasn't just about changing the law, it was about helping to apply it; but to remind you that the Anti-Corruption Commission has stopped working, so the change of the law itself means nothing. The importance of juvenile delinquency and the danger of it is such that special courts are established in the world for young people who, among other things, are trying to reduce juvenile delinquency. It is therefore completely inappropriate to use modern flows to combat the juvenile delinquency of the idea of legislators to transfer the conduct of first-degree criminal proceedings against minors from the level of the district court to the municipal court. Why would it be better to keep it within the district court? The judges of the district court are, in addition to being good law-knowers, better known to life. Just knowing the law isn't enough if the judge isn't a good lifesaver. That's what we used to run.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27191	The word is made by the president of the DSS parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27192	I'd only stick to the question of minors. We also believe it is of paramount importance that the interest of the state to have a juvenile delinquency before the district courts and that the intensity of us as legislators should go in the direction of setting up special courts, because it is obvious that it is in a society such as Serbia, in a period of transition, where we have an inherited crisis of the system of values, has grown enormously. We see with all the arrests, these last arrests, and I hope some future ones will follow, that a large number of very young people, at the age line, people who were like juvenile delinquents, are being punished. That's why the interest, primarily because of the experience of district court judges, as mentioned by fellow Mamula, is that the district court judge must also have a life experience, that he has a certain age. It's not a legal condition, but it's always taken care of and that they just have professional experience so that they can deal with it. Therefore, because of special social concern and importance, it is important for me to have the juvenile delinquency in the ranks of district courts as first-degrees. Secondly, it should certainly be considered, and perhaps it is one of the ideas for the Council formed by the Ministry and which works, and the DSS will certainly prepare a proposal for these laws, to form special courts for minors, precisely because of the concerns of the state towards that part of the population and because of the crisis of the system of values that is behind us and due to the period of transition in which we should enter. It is simply necessary to stabilize opportunities, circumstances, and to overcome what we are now in, and that is one hopelessness. A large number of juvenile delinquents, drug addicts among young people, are also drug addicts, and it is therefore important that the district courts are first-degreed, not that we go to municipal courts that may be buried in other cases and will not be able to pay enough attention to this kind of criminal activity and protect the minors who are caught in committing a criminal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27193	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27194	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think that Mr. Mamula and Mr. Michael's suggestions are useful, but this is a systemic and strategic issue, and more or less of these amendments and additions to the law are of an interventional or urgent nature. As you know, the Council for Justice Reform has been formed, by representatives of the most important judicial institutions and institutions of another kind, which deal with legal theory, legal science. The Council formed working groups; it went into a project of judicial reform -- a strategy for judicial reform. We have many innovations ahead of us. I remind you that a whole set of laws in the area of justice should be done, as this matter is no longer in the jurisdiction of the federal state, or what is today called the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, so there will be changes to all procedural laws. A new criminal law of the Republic of Serbia will have to be passed, which will in itself incorporate those provisions that so far existed in federal Criminal Law, etc. This matter and the question of minors and juvenile delinquency is something which is a strategic issue and which must find a special place in the laws of which we are about to adopt. So much for that. Since I have been announced a session of the National Security Council, and in this time I have to be present, I would take advantage of the opportunity, without wishing to use this speaker and to violate the Rules of Procedure, to just say that the Government is consensual and accepts the amendment of the MP Dr Predrag Stojanovic to Article 9. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges and Amendments of the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dragor Hiber, to Article 2. The Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, since it is procedurally necessary to accept it in the debate itself, so as not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27195	A representative of the SPS parliamentary group also came forward. Do you want us to listen to him and then take a break so we can round up the amendment debate? Approval. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27196	If it's possible, since we're in a hurry to take a break, I'd just say something. So, the Law on the Application of the Charter says in Article 20(4): "Member States are obliged to comply with their laws and other regulations with the Constitutional Charter, ratified by the contracts of the Serbia-Montenegro state union, since 31 December 2003." That is why we have proposed such a formulation, therefore, to remain the intended solution, that the district courts be competent to judge the federal law and the law of the Republic of Serbia provided for cases, because the abolition of the Criminal Law of the SRJ is also foreseen. We think that this is one of the main intensities and that this is a better solution, until the harmonisation of the republican and former federal legislation is carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27197	Is there anyone else reporting for participation in the debate? No, I don't. If not, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours and I'm asking you to be here at 15.00 hours. The debate continues with the amendment to Article 4 submitted jointly by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravić, Hranislav Perić, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. Thank you. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Peric, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has an amendment bearer, People's MP George Mamula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27199	In the light of the proposal for a law, it states that Articles 4. The draft law lays down the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court more precisely. When the Serbian Government changed the same article in July 2002. The Law on the Regulation of Courts, in its reasoning, stated - the bill provides for a way of deciding in the Supreme Court and deletes excess words in relation to the procedure from the current text. Apparently, governments were then overstated that Serbia's Supreme Court was also deciding on regular remedies. The government is now no longer superfluous, and yet the proposed change does not eliminate all government failures from July 2002. Since the Legislative Committee has said that this amendment is in accordance with the law, I do not understand why the Ministry of Justice did not want to accept the amendment, because there are procedural cases where the Serbian Supreme Court is not competent to decide on emergency legal medicines. It missed the government. This is the case with a request, for example, for repetitive criminal proceedings as an emergency legal remedy. The Court of Justice shall decide on this emergency remedy which has reached its verdict in the first degree, therefore, the municipal or district court, Article 409(1). The law on criminal proceedings. The same shall apply to the request to repeat proceedings in a litigation procedure, which has been decided by the court before which the case has arisen, therefore, by a municipal or county court as a first-degree court or by an appeal court as second-degrees. This is especially because of Article 428. Law on litigation. The request to repeat the procedure is therefore an emergency legal remedy on which Serbia's Supreme Court does not decide. The exception applies in a litigation procedure when Serbia's Supreme Court can decide on a complaint against the court's decision if the reason for the retrial was brought before the appeal court. There are, however, procedural cases when Serbia's Supreme Court is competent to deal with regular legal medicines, which should have been taken into account. Serbia's Supreme Court decides on a second-degree appeal court appeal, which has been sentenced to 40 years in prison. Then, if, on the basis of the investigation, the Court of Appeal found that it was in a different situation than that of the district court and in such a factual situation, it based its judgment, and if the Court of Appeal had altered the first-degree verdict of the district court, by which the accused was acquitted and delivered a verdict declaring the defendant guilty. I'm talking about Article 395. The law on criminal proceedings. Since the draft new criminal code is under way, we have also taken care of it. On the other hand, the conflict of jurisdiction between courts of the same kind resolves a common directly higher court. The conflict of jurisdiction between courts of a variety of species from the territory of the same republic, other than the conflict of jurisdiction between military courts and other courts, shall be resolved by the Supreme Court and by the Republic, Article 23. Law on litigation. So the Serbian Supreme Court in criminal matters is in charge of solving almost impossible...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27200	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27201	I'm out of time?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27202	Yeah, here's the fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27203	Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27204	Thank you. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to point to Article 69's injury. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, given that we received at the end of the morning part of the session of the rulings of the Administrative Committee, which said in the explanation that the Chair of the National Assembly, on the basis of written statements by Members of Parliaments who attended the incident between MPs, reportedly Tomislav Nikolic and Branislav Pomoriška, could have had full insight into the incident that took place in the hall during the meeting of the National Assembly on 13 February 2003 and did not hurt the Rules of Procedure when, on the basis of Article 101(2) and Article 104(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly gave a warning measure, or a distance from the meeting of MP Tomislav Nikolic. I have to point to Article 69, according to which the Administrative Board cannot be either a proposing or an initiator for making decisions concerning the pronunciation of any measure of warning, word-absorbing or distance from the session. The Rules of Procedure have been harshly violated by the Administrative Committee, and respect for the Rules of Procedure must first and foremost be taken care of by the President of the National Assembly. This is where the question arises - who was conducting the investigation? Who's making statements here? The report I read said that the president of the National Assembly received statements from certain MPs, and yesterday, Mrs Gordana Comic, who chaired this session, said that the Administrative Board had received statements and watched the video, allegedly on the basis of which he concluded what was happening at the session. Someone here isn't telling the truth. And who? Obviously, we will not be able to determine us here in the National Assembly, but some other competent state body outside this congregation, because we will surely file criminal charges against the responsible persons for the situation that took place in the National Assembly. And if the judicial system were to work, if the Constitutional Court were to do the job it was to do, he would have long discussed, on the initiative of the SRS, on the constitutionality and legality of these business provisions concerning the punishment of MPs. Therefore, the SRS has submitted nine initiatives to the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutionality and legality of certain provisions of the laws adopted in this assembly. Two initiatives concern business provisions. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court doesn't work, like many other institutions in this country, but I came out here first to show you how powerless we are, unless the Administrative Board is doing its job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the President of the National Assembly won't do anything to take care of it... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... to respect the Rules of Procedure by those bodies chosen by this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27206	The decision on the measure has been made. There is the responsibility of the Committee and, pursuant to Article 41 (and these are the general provisions on committees), committees and committees shall be responsible for considering and reviewing matters in the responsibilities of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 69, which states that the Committee shall carry out other tasks with certain acts and requirements of the National Assembly. If you are not satisfied, the Administrative Board may give you an answer again. Okay, the Management Board will respond to this advertising violation of the Rules of Procedure. The 5th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government's representative at the National Assembly session, as well as by the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Peric, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomovic, Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone sign up for a word? Here's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27207	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the SPS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 5 of the proposed law, which reads: Article 5 is amended and reads: The title above Article 81 is amended and reads as follows: "The beginning of the work of the Court of Appeals, the Administrative Court and the Commercial Court". Article 81 adds Article 2 which reads: "The trade court in Novi Pazar begins working on 1 June 2003." The other parts of the proposed member shall remain in force. This is one small intervention because it is inappropriate for the title above this article to stand - and the Trade Court in Novi Pazar should only stand - the Trade Court; the addition of a new position in this article where it is regulated since it will practically begin with the work of the Trade Court in Novi Pazar is a more quality solution, more appropriate, and I see no reason why such a proposal is not accepted by the promoter, or by the Government or the board of directors, because it essentially does not change anything but only specifies the provisions as we believe it is necessary. It does not mean that we are absolutely right, but we think that the Assembly could accept this amendment because it is more precise and better defined by what the legislator wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27208	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravić, Hranislav Perić, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović, Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Regulating Courts will not help much to better work in courts. We've passed laws on courts that haven't been put into office yet. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 120 provides for a deadline for entry into force of the law and is eight days from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger". This means that we should keep in mind when we propose laws not only propose them for the sake of order, but that they can also function in practice. We have suggested that Article 6 paragraph 1 be deleted. The deadline for establishing the Court of Appeal was March 1st. It is now proposed to extend this until January 2004. We Socialists suggest that appeals courts be built up as quickly as possible and that they start working without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27210	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravić, Hranislav Perić, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović, Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravić, Hranislav Perić, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović, Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravić, Hranislav Perić, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović, Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? Here's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27211	I've already spoken in principle of this law and the illogicalness of this law to come into effect immediately after the publication of the Official Messenger, because otherwise the deadlines have already passed. So, March 1st has been behind us for 19 days and we don't see any reason to break the Constitution that says the laws take effect on the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger. Nothing will bother leaving this provision, i.e. our proposal, that the law enters into force on the eighth day of the day of publication, and not as provided for by the proposal, immediately after publication. As I have already said in my reasoning and in the principle debate, and I repeat now - I see no reason, since the deadline has already expired and will have no subsequent consequences for the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27212	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragore Hiber. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government's representative at the National Assembly session, as well as by the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular and since the proposing representative is not present and cannot give the final word, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organies in the Subsidisation of Organized Criminal You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragor Hiber and together Zarko Obradovic, Slobodan Tomovic, Dragan Todorovic and Ljubisa Maravic. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the prevention of organised crime has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Slobodan Tomovic, Dragan Todorovic and Ljubisa Maravic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? Please, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27213	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the proposed text of amendments and the addition of the Law is that the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal, which is competent to judge in the second-degree proceedings in the cases of criminal offences provided for in this law, is delayed because of the non-constitution, failure, more accurately and responsibility of the Executive Authority's representatives, as well as the representatives of the legislative authority due to the expiry of the time limit foreseen for the establishment of the appeals courts, leading to the application and second-degree protection of those people who have been struck by the law on the repression of organised crime. This is for the rule of law and for the legal system is extremely bad, but the solution should not be required in delaying the time limit for the Court of Appeal's work, but in the soon-to-be constitution of the Court of Appeal and giving the possibility for people who have possibly been hit by these laws to complain about first-degree decisions. That is why our amendment proposes that this article be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27214	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zarko Obradović, Slobodan Tomovic, Dragan Todorovic and Ljubisa Maravic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragore Hiber. Since the Government's representative and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, and the proposing's representative is not present to give the final word, I conclude the review of the bill's proposal in particular. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judges You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: together with Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic and Slobodan Adzic and MP Predrag Stojanovic. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since we have conducted a joint principled search within which this bill has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic and Slobodan Adzic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27215	The amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia to article 5 reads as Article 5. The bill is deleted. I will remind you, the government's proposal states that Article 52, paragraph 2, after the word "the Supreme Court of Serbia", adds the words "and the competent committee of the National Assembly", to add, after Article 2 of Article 3 which reads: "The President of the Supreme Court of Serbia no later than 30 days before the day of completion of the working age of the judge informs the committee of the National Assembly". The draft law obliges the President of the Court to inform the National Assembly's committee by 1 October at the end of the working day, and the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, at the latest, 30 days before the judge's day of completion. The existence of reasons for the termination of the judicial post, where the completion of the working century is also established by the Supreme Court of Serbia and is informed of this by the National Assembly. I underline that under Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Serbia's constitution is established by the Supreme Court of Serbia, which informs the National Assembly. The National Assembly cannot decide on the end of the judge's duties due to the completion of the working century until it receives notice from the Supreme Court of Serbia. Until receiving a notice from the Supreme Court of Serbia, no provision of the Serbian Constitution allows the National Assembly to participate in the process of determining the reason for the judge's stay, but rather the procedure is in the jurisdiction of the judicial authority. The proposed provision, without any constitutional resistance, creates the obligation of the president of the Serbian Supreme Court to inform the Assembly's Committee on Justice and Administration when the judge ends his working life and thus establish the supervisory powers of the National Assembly over the work of the courts. The supervisory powers of the Assembly over the work of the courts have been opposed to the system divided by the authorities, which is provided for in Article 9. The Constitution of Serbia. Therefore, the solution given by the amendment and the addition of the law on judges is contrary to Article 101(4). The Constitution of Serbia, therefore, is proposed to delete Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27216	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic and Slobodan Adzic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Free Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27217	Article 56 of the basic law regulates the completion of the working century and the reasons for the resolution that determines the Great Personal Greater. The amendments provide for - if, within 30 days of the date of the initiation of the procedure, the Great personal council does not decide on the basis of the resolution, the General Session will take place in the next 30 days, and members of the Great Personal Council will be suspended from office. We think it is much better to regulate this amendment differently, so that the Great personal council will be obliged to decide within 30 days of the date of the initiation of the procedure whether there are reasons for the resolution. We think this is more rational and that this solution would be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27218	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic and Slobodan Adzic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27219	The DSS proposal says to delete Article 7. It's a bill of law. The National Assembly, on a proposal from the National Assembly’s competent committee, shall be empowered to establish the end of the judge’s duties for the completion of the working century. If the High Court of Justice of Serbia does not inform the National Assembly in good time that there are reasons for the termination of the judicial duty due to the completion of the working century, the National Assembly cannot determine the termination of the judicial duty without a previous act of the Supreme Court of Serbia. The constitutional norm protects the division of power and independence and independence of courts, by presupposing that the judge may cease his duty only after the existence of reasons for the termination of his duties, thus and the completion of the working age determines the judicial authority itself. First, the Serbian Supreme Court act comes only after the National Assembly act. No one, nor the Assembly Committee on Justice and Administration, can make any decision before the Serbian Supreme Court decides that the judge has completed his working time and on the content of that decision does not notify the National Assembly. This law cannot be changed without prejudice to the Constitution of Serbia, Article 101(4). In addition, the proposed provision contains so much as the rules set out in Articles 63 and 3 have been left out. The Law on Judges, under which a decision to suspend the office of the judge is allowed to appeal to the Constitutional Court within 15 days of the publication of the decision in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The Constitutional Court shall apply the rules on decision-making in electoral disputes accordingly, Article 63(3). The law on judges. Omaška is so much more difficult that this right under the applicable Law on Public Prosecutors has public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors, and the decision to resolve is allowed to appeal to the Constitutional Court within 15 days of the publication of the decision in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", which is regulated by Article 78(2). Public prosecutor's law. The consequences of the failure could be for judges to come to an unequal legal position in relation to public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors in a very important issue, which is the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court. There is no reason to be a difference in the position of judges in relation to the position of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27220	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27221	The still in force Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has defined a way of ending the judicial post. The member of the law that you have proposed is the opposite of the Constitution. Mr. Cvetkovic suggested this amendment to delete this member. This is a provision that will surely be annulled by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, because of Article 101(4) of the Constitution. The Serbian Constitution says that a judge can stop acting only on the basis of an act, or a proposal from the Supreme Court of Serbia; it is a matter and cannot be done besides that, it cannot be done what you are going to do today under the next item of the agenda -- the resolution of the judicial functions, which you are going to do a great deal of embarrassment and damage to this country, which you are going to do against the constitutional thing; but obviously you are not interested, because you are all talking. You don't care about anything, you don't care about anything. You don't care about anything. You don't care about anything but political will and abuse of state of emergency. What we're saying now, since the citizens can't hear, they're going to stay on record here. I truly believe that those who will find themselves affected by this precisely all who feel that the Constitution, however bad, has to be respected, will do everything to get your decisions annulled and the facts of the anti-constitutional decisions removed. Our amendment is only in accordance with the Constitution and I think we should support it and finally return this assembly to constitutional flows.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27222	There are no more applications for a word about this amendment. The 9th amendment, with corrections, was filed by MP Predrag Stojanovic. The Government's representative and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted this amendment, with corrections. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with a correction, legally possible, so I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic and Slobodan Adzic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Free Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27223	Amendment to Article 10. The law amending the Law on Judges reads -- the words of "appellate courts" are replaced by the words "appellate court". The amendment follows an amendment to the amendment to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regulating Courts, which proposes a single appeals court for Serbia's territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27224	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, and the proposing's representative is not present to give the final word, I conclude the review of the bill's proposal in particular. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – SUPPOSES FOR THE CHOICE, NAMES, DEFINITIONS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE FUNCTION OF THE AUTHORITIES OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF 19 March 2003, which was tabled by the Committee on Justice and Administration, - Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the Judges of the Judges of the General Prosecutors, which was submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, - a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the district attorney’s office in the County, which was submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, - a proposal for a decision to electing a public prosecutor, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3), the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours and that it is allocated to the relative number of MPs that this parliamentary group has. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists of MPs applying for a word. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Professor Dr. Dragor Hiber, chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27225	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of us, on the one hand, a number of motions for the resolution of judicial functions, in particular the prosecutorial functions, which were laid down by the National Assembly of Justice and which, according to the procedure, was further forwarded by the Justice Committee. The legal and factual questions relating to these resolutions are set out in the appropriate procedure. I could only add one fact to these suggestions. One of the holders of judicial functions whose resolution was proposed later, and beyond the procedure before the High Council of Justice, referred the complaint to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Justice Committee found that the National Assembly could not consider the complaint, as it was a matter of which the High Council of Justice was responsible. Vanovova, the Committee on Justice has proposed to the National Assembly, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, to adopt a decision on the termination of the judicial duty to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts who have met the conditions for retirement. Article 101(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to stop the judge's office when he meets the conditions for an age pension established by law. This principle is in the form of imperial norms passed and confirmed in the Law on Judges. Article 51. The Law on Judges says, "The judge ceases his duties when he ends his workday," and Article 52 sets out and says, "The judge stops working time when he turns 65 years of life or 40 years of insurance training." Article 53. The law on judges predicted that the working age of the judge could not be extended under any circumstances. The constitution and the law are clear. A judge who has completed the necessary conditions for retirement must cease to perform his duties without exception. Among the judges in the Republic of Serbia, according to personal papers conducted at the Ministry of Justice, 35 judges are currently performing a judicial duty and no proceedings for the termination of the duties have been initiated despite the need to be subject to the termination of the judicial duty due to the completion of the working age. The Law on Judges, pursuant to Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall apply. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for a special procedure in which the procedure for the termination of the court's duty is to meet the conditions for retirement. The President of the Supreme Court or the President of the Court of Justice is scheduled to make an appropriate proposal to the Great Personal Council, and he finds that a particular judge has met the requirements laid down by law. For almost a year, this procedure has not been implemented because, in the opinion of the Supreme Court, this procedure should not have been implemented. Serbia's Supreme Court held that the provision of a law, which, I repeat, is imperative and which does not allow exceptions, is not good, which is why it has proposed that this provision should be amended and that the working century be extended to certain judges. This National Assembly has both rejected this amendment. It was launched, as part of this concept, and this idea that the judge could remain a judge -- although the constitution and the law provide for imperative conditions to stop him from acting as judge -- proceedings before Serbia's Constitutional Court. It was claimed that this solution was unconstitutional. Just by coincidence yesterday, the Constitutional Court of Serbia found that the initiative was unwarranted and that, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, every judge, when he turns 65 years of life or 40 years of insurance training, must cease his duties as judge. On the contrary, the presidents of individual courts made decisions by referring to the former Labour Relations Act, and the Law on the Labour Relations of Workers in the State Administration, and not to regulate it and decide to extend the judges until the end of 2003 the working and judicial age. There's a true principle of back specialis derogat generals. There's a true principle of the back of the posteriori derogat Priori. The special law derogates the general, the late law dictates the previous law. This extension of the working century is not based on any legal provision but on the free will of the President of the Courts. The presidents of the courts also concluded that the appropriate procedures cannot be initiated, as the Greater Personality has ceased to work. The large personal council has been educated in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure on the Great Personal Council, adopted by the Supreme Court of Serbia and made up by three judges from each of the three departments, the oldest judges. I'm undermining this -- the oldest judges, because it's just about judges who have to retire under the Constitution and the law. When the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Judges, on how to form a personal council, were challenged, the person council decided to self-taught. It's educated under one law, it was brought in by another who predicted a different education. It was not abolished because of the second law, but because of the dispute of the second law, although it could continue to work when it was educated. As a result, the High Court has not submitted an appropriate proposal in the courts of the Republic of Serbia to 35 judges who had to lose their office two years ago or somewhat shorter under the law and the Constitution. In the framework of judicial oversight, this was found by the Ministry of Justice and sent a proposal to the Committee on Justice to propose to the National Assembly that it apply the constitutional and legal provisions on the termination of the judicial office directly. The Justice Committee is facing two legal and constitutional provisions. One is that the judge's office cannot perform the one to whom the Constitution required it to stop, and the other is the procedure for stopping the judge's office. Indeed, it is two important and valuable principles. It's not easy to resist in such a dilemma. The Justice Committee has concluded that it should accept the Justice Ministry's proposal for one reason. No rule of law, no rule of law if the court decides not to apply the law to itself. If the Supreme Court judges in the form of a personal council and the College of the Supreme Court decide to exempt themselves from constitutional and legal provisions, believing that they can, then the rule of law remains few and the citizens of Serbia cannot expect that the law will be equally applied to all when it is not applied to those who need to apply it. The silent image and rem suam is as old as the right one. It's based on law. No one can be a judge in their own affairs. I can't have judges who had to retire and need to stop their judicial duty to decide on their own remainder in the line of duty. As a result, the Committee on Justice, in the light of constitutional and legal constraints, decided to propose to the National Assembly and to leave the conscience of the MPs to decide to apply the Constitution and the law directly. I have to answer one question that's being asked - why right now. This is the subject of correspondence and controversy between the Supreme Court and the relevant authorities for a long time. It is the College of the Supreme Court, I repeat, that the judges who are subject to the termination of the judicial office have taken legal views that they should not apply the provisions which are unquestionably and who say that anyone who is 65 must leave the court office. Right now, if we have decided to fight for the rule of law, we must also fight for the rule of law in the judiciary. It is not about lustration or punishment, however, nor about suspicion of these judges. The majority of these judges honourably fulfilled their judicial work century, and some of them fall within the very top of the Serbian judiciary, including today. Some of them are free to say that it would be precious if they could remain in the court office, but the law must be equal for everyone, including them. Therefore, gentlemen and ladies of the People's Parliament, we propose to the National Assembly to make a decision on the termination of the judge's office, at the same time thanks to the honorary judges for what they did and did for 65 years of life and 40 years of employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27226	I would like to thank Mr. Drago Hiber's proposing representative. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, applied for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27227	It's a poor country where lawlessness and violation of the Constitution are applauded. I passed my exam with Professor Hiber, and he taught me a lot of things. That's why I'm going to stick to what he taught me today, not what he's saying about this pay phone today. I'll stick to procedures, formalities, the Constitution and the law. I will not reach for political means to suspend the law and to carry out my political will. Being moral and honorable means sticking to procedures and laws and when it is not in favor of you, not respecting the Constitution and the law only when it comes to you. It's a legal state, it's a procedure and it's democracy. We have to ask today if the judges are responsible for drug dealers in schools, truck killers on the road and everything else that's going on in this country? Are the judges responsible for the state of consciousness in this country, for a broken system of values, and for the political subjugation of the judiciary for the last 50 years, which has continued and which, apparently, will continue? Whether the judges are guilty or perhaps guilty politicians who needed not a professional, independent and responsible judiciary, but a beating to deal with their political indifferences. Do they need judges who, in time, prosecuted dissidents, accused of reaction, nationalised, and everything else. Such judges were once needed, such judges are still needed to be used for political accounts, not for the implementation of the Constitution and the law. The democratic party of Serbia is deeply convinced of an independent, independent and above all responsible judiciary that will be held accountable to citizens, not politicians who will answer to the state, not to anyone else who is in power at the moment. That judiciary needs to be made strong, so it doesn't bend before every political change. We need institutions, not rags from people who will judge as we say. We don't need judges under any pressure to end the election will, to arrest, to accuse, to ban the papers, and to do everything we've witnessed in recent years. The DSS believes that this proposal is anti-constitutional and deeply affecting the principles of an independent and independent judiciary. The DSS proposed by the proposal for a law on judges in Article 53(1) that judges cannot extend their working lives when they are 65 years old, and we stand behind it. But what we are still standing behind are rights acquired; if the Committee on Justice and Administration in November 2001 is aware that one number of judges, in accordance with then existing laws, is extended working age for two years, to 67 years, and that is Judge Milosevic, Dedier, Ivosevic and Mrs Gajinov, can we now (if, at one point, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, some extended working century) be intruded into those acquired rights; whether we can do so without previous opinions, as defined by Article 101. The Serbian Constitution, and without the request of the Supreme Court of Serbia, can this be done? Obviously, no one is interested in the Constitution, no law, no rights acquired, or anything else, which in every democratic, legal, European, so here in the country that today, I believe in our happiness, would be guaranteed in the Council of Europe? Whether in countries, look at a little, which are members of the Council of Europe, it can get in the way of acquired rights -- it can't. Why it is good that we have become a member of the Council of Europe, because it is our endurance in a democratic struggle, although, if we are admitted to the Council of Europe, it does not mean that we are a democratic state, because Albania's time of unrest has been admitted into the Council of Europe. But it certainly is a good incentive to build democracy and the rule of law. It is good for one more reason, because in the Member States of the Council of Europe, the state of emergency controls the Council of Europe and controls whether everything is in line with the standards of the Council of Europe. We also expect the Council of Europe to assess whether what you are doing is in line with the principles that exist in democratic states, which are members of the Council of Europe. Judge Ivosevic, current deputy president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, openly, with a number of other judges, opposed the depotism of Slobodan Milosevic and was founder of the Association of Judges of Serbia at the time we were all fighting for democracy; it was then a significant incentive that judges, as one very important group in the life of a state, rebelled and said -- we want a free and independent judiciary. Then Mr. Ivosevic was removed from the Supreme Court of Serbia by Balša Govedarica and the company, in the same way that it is now being done, without the views of the Supreme Court of Serbia. Remember that we annulled such decisions in 2001 and that we returned Mr Ivosevic and Mr Vučetic, just as victims of Milosevic's authority. We now have the same -- the Justice and Administration Committee, at the initiative of the Justice Minister, proposes the removal of these judges. Most in this assembly are likely to accept Slobodan Milosevic's methods and the assembly at the time and do the same thing that Milosevic did, as well, relieve those judges of their duties. Leposava Karamarkovic, as president of Serbia's Supreme Court, suggested and informed the assembly more than a year ago that she extended their working life by two years. How come that decision was not against the constitution then and was not the subject of the debate, if it is known that it has come to this congregation? Someone will say -- there will be some argument, a tense intense interpretation will be found to cover what is now being done, the opposite of the Constitution and the law. You will cover everything, as you have covered other things, but it will not distinguish you from your predecessors, who have also sat hanged in those benches and raised their hands to dictate the political will of the judges, and it will not be an extensive interpretation of you amnesty from your responsibility and guilt that our judiciary, which is in turn, will be in construction (and we have to start building an independent, independent and responsible judiciary), brought to the extent that it was on 5 October and January 2001, when we moved to these parliamentary benches. Is it the judiciary that needs to be helped to solve problems, or is it the judiciary that needs to be helped by not being helped by the legislative or executive authority to solve its problems? Who do you think is the most disturbed by the thesis that the judiciary is corrupt, that there are irresponsible people sitting there; who is burdened more by this thesis than by the judges themselves, the largest number of judges, who are honest people, who honorably do their jobs, who accuse and condemn people to 20 or more years in prison for large wages. You think it's easy to make a decision like that and it's easy to charge someone, get them to jail for 40 years, as envisaged now? It's not easy for them to find it the hardest thing to do is to let them all down, to be corrupt, to be connected to organized crime, to work against the state. All you have to do is let the judiciary deal with all those who mess with them. They would have done so if there weren't those from the executive and legislative authorities who protect the judges, if there weren't those who called on the phone and said -- let this one go, let go, that there is no legal lobby that passed the Law on criminal proceedings, contrary to European standards, which went far beyond European standards and which the DSS has submitted 16 amendments, where police rights to police detention are not left, where detention is reduced. Is it possible that the judiciary can work, whether it helps build a responsible, independent judiciary -- no, ladies and gentlemen, what we're doing today, this is all just not it. But let's see how the big personal council worked. (President: People's Parliament, it's been five minutes, do you continue? Yes, I'll use the other ten minutes. Let's see how the big personal council worked. By changing judicial laws, last July, the way the Great Personal Council was elected was also changed. This parliamentary majority has decided that the Assembly is choosing a large personal council. From September 25th to February 13th, the election of the Great Personal Council was put out of force, and it was done by the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Is it possible, then, to comment on the work of the Grand Personal Council? Someone will say -- that's the composition, that's not the composition, we heard those arguments. Are the provisions of the laws laid down outside the law, which the Constitutional Court has examined, considered, used, and then who is responsible for the fact that this assembly has changed the law against the constitution, whether the judges are responsible or are the MPs responsible? Well, it's not the judges in this assembly who are pushing the tasters, it's the MPs who, in most cases, are not even familiar with what they're voting on. And that is the responsible authority, which is concerned with building an independent, independent and responsible judiciary. The DSS MPs will eventually vote against the resolution of these judges, because there is no relevant act by the Supreme Court of Serbia and there is no appropriate procedure that must be respected for a judge to be dismissed. I can't do political cleanups, break laws, break acquired rights. This should not be done in this congregation, unfortunately, but it will obviously be done. The DSS will not support the draft decision of the Justice and Administration Committee. Unfortunately, I honestly believe that there are more undertakers in this room than those who want this judiciary built as free, independent and responsible. I expect you to expect, too, when the DSS comes to an opportunity after the next elections, that we will pass laws, help build an independent, responsible and free judiciary, which will allow judges not to be extended hands of various MPs, ministers, MPs' majority, but to work according to the Constitution and the law, as also in Dusan Serbia, and how not known in Serbia that has entered the JJI century and becomes a member of the Council of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen of the grave of the judiciary, it's your honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27228	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27229	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to repeat what has been said many times here. I'll just say a few notes. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, Prime Minister Vladan Batic and the Ministry of Justice were submitted to the Justice and Administration Committee, with a list of judges whose judicial office was suspended by law enforcement due to the completion of the working century in accordance with Article 52. The Law on Judges, which provides for the judge to stop working time when he is 65 years old, or 40 years of employment or 40 years of insurance. It is also noted that the conditions for the termination of the judicial post are laid down in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Remembrances for the sake of these same judges, so the judges of the Supreme Court, in 2001, the DOS, returned your authority and enabled them to extend their working life. For what reason? I really don't know. The principled position of the SPS is that there should be no excess in any category of persons employed in terms of retirement conditions, whether it is years of life or years of insurance. However, you who, by your decision of the majority, not to say the terror of the majority, gave the opportunity to extend the working century by a certain number of judges, including Judge Ivosevic, I think Rankovic, Didier. It was done in 2001. They remained judges of the Supreme Court, more specifically set up in place, so that the Law on Judges and a set of judicial laws would be amended in July 2002. Someone will say, when they were appointed judges or when their working life was extended, there was no law. All right, but the laws were passed later on by you. Why didn't you look ahead a little, why did you extend or give these people the opportunity to be judges again, so that later, two years later, in a very fast and inappropriate way, you would put them in a position that practically they themselves said they felt changed. I'm saying again, it's the same authority, it's the same judges, but it's two arches. Did something happen in the meantime that led to a discrepancy between a group of judges you have extended your working life and you as representatives of the authorities that you were in 2001 for, and today you're against it. The answer is easy, and you don't have to ask for it too much. The bottom line is that the political will of the majority in this House is decisive, and your will on these issues has changed in the meantime. Why? The answer will best give time, because time is the best judge, always has been and always will be. As a result, I cannot mention the fact that this is another example of overcoming the independence of the judiciary and creating uncertainty about the position of the holders of judicial functions. The fact is that a set of laws was suspended in July 2002 (and published in the "Official Messenger" on 25 September), therefore, by the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision. And the same Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia later decided to lay down that the provisions of Article 7 of Articles 10(2) and (3) of Articles 13, Articles 15, 3rd and 16, 18 and 19 are not in agreement with the Constitution. Where you will have major confirmations, the parliamentary majority in this House does not care, neither when the law is passed nor when amendments to the law are passed, and obviously not today, to protect the independent position of judges, to the basis on which the judicial system will rest. The Constitutional Court's explanation goes on to say (I apologize for taking some time, probably all of you want to leave the hall quickly, but be patient) that the Constitutional Court has decided at its meeting on 3 October 2002 to submit proposals for the assessment of constitutionality to the National Assembly of Serbia for an answer. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not submit a reply to the Constitutional Court within 45 days. The procedure is, pursuant to Article 16(3). The Law on Procedure before the Constitutional Court, and the legal fact of its decisions, continued without the reply of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen, when you knew that a large number of laws on amendments and additions to the law on justice, or the Law on Judges, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, specifically the Law on Judges, were unconstitutional, why there was no timely approach to the process of harmonising a set of judicial laws with the provisions of the Constitution, in order to thus warn us of what is happening to us today. Today we are discussing, and who knows how many times after this we will discuss such situations, something that should not be the subject of our attention. And not to say we're wasting our time, because it's really too heavy a word for an area that's the most important thing in every country. In order for the matter to be even more difficult, the material we have seen here has been subject to procedural failures, it has been given the guidance of the Justice and Administration Committee according to the provisions which have been challenged by most of the opinion of legal experts, and I have not heard that the Constitutional Court has decided that they are in accordance with the Constitution and with the provisions relating to the jurisdiction of the Justice Committee. I express my confidence that what Professor Hiber said from this pay phone was correct, if I understood him correctly. Regardless of all this, it is odd that these lustrations, as most people in the judiciary call them, take place at a time when a state of emergency has been declared in our country. And if it wasn't, this would be reason enough for us all to ask ourselves how we're making a situation for stabilising the justice system. Will all those words that were negatively addressed to the judiciary in the last 50 years be justified today, when after three years of DOS or reform forces we have total chaos in the judiciary. I'd like to remind you, earlier amendments to the law on courts have been made very rarely. Previously, the judges had laws, stability, continuity of judicial functions, the Constitution guaranteed rights. Today, you don't know when the parliamentary majority -- here for a year and a half already for the third time, in three years your government will also come up with the idea of standing behind the judges' neck, their independence, their independence, and who knows what else. For this reason, I urge you to really think again about this proposed material, so that we do not come into a situation that within a month, two months, or who knows how many decisions this Parliament has made again in the Constitutional Court. It is a shame for any parliament, but it is the biggest shame for those people who voted in favour of such legal solutions. Therefore, the SPS will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27230	The word is by MP Gordana Pop - Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when Professor Hiber comes out for this pay phone, either as a member of the DOS, or as president of the Justice Committee, I open my ears well, but I open my eyes well and look at the papers that I have in the MPs' benches, and I need a lot of time to reconstruct the event and see what Professor Hiber wanted to correct in the process of passing all these laws that we had on the agenda today and this part of the agenda that is currently under consideration. The motion for a decision on the termination of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts was briefly commented in the afternoon debate, wishing to draw attention to the fact that we already pointed out two years ago the need for certain Supreme Court judges to retire, i.e. not to meet the conditions to be judges. Then Professor Hiber realized that, in the light of this proposal, there was no reason for the retroactiveness of these provisions of the decision, and then in the afternoon part of the session, we received a new act from the Committee on Justice. It doesn't say what time it is, but today's date means afternoon; it says that corrections to the failures made by Professor Hiber are being made, I am potential - the chairman of the Justice Committee, as these judges have met the conditions for the termination of the judge's office of those dates, their judicial duty has ceased since the date of entry into force of this decision. And, now, aside from the fact that the President of the National Assembly had to dismiss this motion as messy, to leave a subsequent deadline for the motion to be arranged in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, let's not do so, but what will we do, Professor Hiber, when, besides what I said this morning - that some people were suspended by the judicial duty in July last year, and they were making decisions in the meantime, what will we do with those in which it is written - the day of this decision, and you are asking to complete this act with some new subsection 2, and some other chapter, and to take effect on the day of its entry into force of this decision. And it takes effect eight days after the announcement. You've totally been mixed up here now, and now these people who have a judge's office stopped won't absolutely know when they're going to have a judge's office. I don't know if anyone else has noticed what's been going on today, but here's to accepting what Mr. Hiber delivered to us today during the afternoon session, up to number 25 in the proposal of this decision somehow, but what we're going to do with these 25 and beyond where it says "day of this decision," I really don't know. Someone would have to deal with it, and we here as if we had come from the street, but if all of us here aren't professional about this, and we don't have to thank God, to be professional, this Justice Committee has to be professional and it has to be the professional service of the National Assembly and it suggests to the president of the National Assembly that there is a chapter missing in some act or that it doesn't contain everything that's written in the Rules of Procedure in Article 132 that some act should contain, that it is in a certain way and implemented. When I noticed this, believe me, I came back to these laws that we had this afternoon in our review, on the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Organisation and jurisdiction of the State Authorities in countering organised crime, and I'm not going to debate it, but I just want to draw attention to Professor Hiber, as MP of the DOS, trying to correct the government's mistake again. There's a lot of ignorance with the government. You see, when they delayed the start, that is, the entry into force of this law on appeals courts and other specialised courts, and they said - on 1 January 2004, Dragor Hiber noticed that there was also something wrong, so he tabled the amendment, cited the reasons for the return fact, but the reasons for the return fact of one member solved by the amendment are not at the same time the reasoning that should contain the bill and must contain it if the return fact is concerned. Chuck, Mr. Hiber's amendment doesn't explain the feedback. He gives the amendment and says that, just a moment to find out, since the Legislative Committee has considered both of them and considered this possible on Article 2. The bill, in its explanation, says Dragor Hiber that the application of these provisions has been delayed but the law did not enter into force on 1 March 2003, so the proposed amendment in the general interest avoids the consequences of the untimely entry into force of the law on amendments and amendments to the law and then complements its amendment because it understands that it has practically introduced the bill into retroactiveness and gives an explanation, complementing the reasons for retroactiveness. Is it possible that no one in the government has taken care of that too -- as these laws are being prepared; as we have seen this morning when the Administrative Board worked, and yesterday the president of the Assembly, on sanctioning certain MPs and dissuading and disabling the further work of the head of the SRS Parliament Club. It seems that someone really needs to put a state of emergency into this congregation or temporary measures. There is no longer any knowledge of what the government is doing or what committees are doing or what the president of the National Assembly is doing or what MPs are doing. I really hope to find out soon that the elections will be called in Serbia, that the President of the Republic will be elected, that a new parliament will be elected to know what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27232	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27233	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is probably one of the most missed debates in the last few months in this House, as there is always talk of sanctioning certain judges, punishing and suffocating the judiciary. It is about constitutional powers that all citizens have and protect constitutional powers that all citizens have, and so are the judges of the Supreme Court and other courts. In Article 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to be equal in rights and duties, have equal protection against state and other bodies, regardless of race, gender, birth, language, property, etc. In Article 22. - everyone has the right to all equal protection of their rights in court proceedings, other state or any body or organisation. In this sense, if constitutional or legal reasons for retirement have occurred, there is no basis for any citizen of the Republic of Serbia to tolerate such a thing. Here I have Mrs Karamarkovic's memo, Mr Batic, where it is said (it is from 1st letter). 8. 2002): "Dear Mr Batic, members of the Great Personal Council elected on the basis of Article 37. The law on judges by changing that member has ceased to function. That's why earlier members of the Great Personal Council are unable to respond to your demand from 29. Seven. 2002." It's simply not true, if you look at the law, that nothing of that law is abolished. Of course there are transitional and final provisions and, of course, that body itself has abolished itself. That body could've worked any further. What I would particularly point out is, if we are talking about the category of rights acquired, that at least we are different from the public legal categories. The category of rights acquired is dominant, exclusively a private legal category and there is no right to perform public functions. If there was a right to exercise public office, then Mr Kostunica, after being elected for four years, would still be the president of the federal state, then the previous parliament would still function as the federal parliament, or the SRJ parliament, because it was elected for four years. The category of rights acquired can never be used in that area. The only right acquired in the exercise of public office we have in the monarchy, the monarch in the monarchy has acquired the right to be born and this right acquired refers to the position of the head of state. So it's a category that absolutely cannot be applied in this case. Please return to the topic of the agenda, and the topic of the agenda is the application of the Constitution and the application of the law relating to the duration of the working relationship, the Law on Judges; these provisions are explicit, no one can, nor can the judge work for more than 65 years or 40 years of work. In that sense, there is no talking about sanctioning, and there is no point in saying that this is any way to retaliate against the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27234	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27235	Just for a little while, I know that what I'm about to say won't absolutely reach you, but you'll make a decision of coffee you'll make, but I want to say and save my soul: all that you, Mr. Pajtić, read was valid in 2001, when you were able to retire those people, who met the conditions for retirement after the perfect years of life and work experience, to retire. Why didn't you do it then, and you're doing it now? It's about legal volunteerism and the terror of the majority. It didn't do anybody any good, so it won't do you any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27236	Are any of the other presidents or authorized representatives... The replica, the basis for the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27237	I've been called. Dear Mr. Todorovic, the decision was a gesture towards people who were victims of the terror of Slobodan Milosevic, and now we see that because of the failure of the Grand Personal Council, 35 judges from the district courts, from the Supreme Court, the situation has gone beyond that year of employment. If we were to carry out positive discrimination against these several judges who have been extended, this would be a violation of the Constitution and, in that sense, I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27238	Since the president and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups... Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, second report.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27239	I apologize for reporting again, but in the criticism of Drago Hiber and the Justice Committee, I forgot to refer to the decision on the election of a public prosecutor on the agenda today and what is practically the follow-up to justice policy, here's the third year. You know, we had suggestions to name people on high judicial functions, and that's also this new law that was passed in 2001, without any practice in judicial authorities; so we had judges elected who were before that the secretaries of agricultural cooperatives, I don't know either, dealt with personal issues, were never in the judiciary. This has proved to be something that is not good, and today the minister said that he wants young, educated people, it all stands, but these young and educated people have to have some internship and some of the practice in work, in judicial authorities, and also in prosecutorial authorities. Here we see from the proposal for this decision that the candidates for the district attorney are six people: one is the judge of the municipal court, one is the official of the district attorney in Kosovo Mitrovica, one is the deputy district attorney right in the Kingdom, and two are lawyers from Cacca, and one is from Belgrade. It is proposed that Velimir Golubovic, a lawyer from the Kingdom, be elected as district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom. I don't know anything about Mr. Golubovic of the Royals, he was reported at the Bar Bar Bar, but in an explanation that is common, opinions are said to have been obtained from the prosecution's colleges for which candidates are elected. I don't even know how it's possible for the D.A.'s College to know something about this lawyer in terms of his similarity to be a public prosecutor, how capable he really is of that function, and it's said that, starting with high labour and professional requirements and speciality to perform a public prosecutor's office, and in accordance with the powers laid down in Article 56. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the High Council of Justice, established a draft decision. Now, that's how you run the human policy, between the lines you can read for yourself, you have enough political experience. It is quite clear who these people are who come to certain functions and no one can convince me that so many deputy public prosecutors, as many expert associates who can never get to these calls, or to call judges, are not more professional, qualified for such functions. After what your condition is, don't complain to us, we don't have a minister to tell him, let him never open up to us again, never complain, we're not a shoulder to cry on and we don't have a lot of stake in this. Let the parliamentary majority conduct a policy that the government, the ministry of justice, the High Council of Justice and all other judicial authorities have imagined, and the consequences will be suffered by all of us and all of Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27240	We're moving on to a discussion in a unique search for word applications. The first registered speaker is the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, and after him is the People's Messenger Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27241	I haven't been able to see Professor Hiber from this pay phone so passionately or scarred, full of bullets, defend the proposal of the Committee on Justice and the administration of the National Assembly. Maybe that's not too bad, but it's only obvious that it's the wrong time to do that, Professor; unlike many of us in the Assembly, you're teaching at Law School, an object based among other things and these acts. Think about it, Professor, how helpful it will be for you after a while, this passion, this kind of passion, when you explain to the students that you, as their professor, knowingly in violation of the Constitution, have brought and proposed something to the National Assembly. That's something you're going to have to face in person. What's the subject of the debate here is that individual judges are relieved of their duties because they have met the conditions for retirement, i.e. the age limit and the job experience. Nothing would have been disputed, nothing would have been contrary to the laws if it hadn't been for some judges, I mean those who were proposed, not a full-time year and a few months ago, got a decision to extend their employment for the need to perform, and still, the function they were on, but no one then rebelled in this assembly. But let's put that aside now. If this is one way to put pressure on individual judges, it's the wrong way. If this kind of anger and hatred expressed by the newly appointed presidents of parliamentary groups, who, pointing their finger at certain parliamentary groups, means a warning to some MPs that we must conduct ourselves in the future, because by them, we will be guilty and the cause of what happened, then that is the state that warns us all, warns us. Gentlemen, then it's something we've witnessed before. Not to you, gentlemen, the judges are not to blame, all the judges are not to blame. You list here multiple examples of the Ibar highway. Gentlemen, when did you present to this assembly the report of the Ibar Highway Survey Committee, from the last call? You're not, gentlemen. That report is in your drawers, under the obligation that you consider it in this session. I guess he could've come to the agenda in all of this. If you had found it appropriate to take that report, you might have warned, perhaps, fortunately, you would have prevented what has happened now. In that report, you have a lot of names you're talking about right now, and you're notifying the public. If you had honored to read it, you would have seen that the names and last names of all these people were involved in the preparation of the assassinations in Budva and Ibarska masteral, except that some of them were also considered business partners of some at the time of opposition leaders, so when they came to power, they put it aside. In life, and especially in politics, that people's -- everything comes back, everything pays. I can understand emotions, I can understand the mood of some colleagues from individual parliamentary groups, but I can't understand those political and life-formists who have absolutely nothing to do with a tragically injured man. They started with it in 1999, 2000, 2001, and now they want to lynch Serbia with their acting. Don't, gentlemen, mind what you do. Any item on the agenda can end with a peaceful debate. You have a total majority. Take care, this is the time, and we're our own witnesses, when those who are suspects are already found guilty in advance. That time, that way, and that kind of method leads to dictatorship. I appeal to my young colleagues who have recently been appointed to their new functions, yet to take advantage of what is rational in politics, to make their youth and their will to deal with politics a positive energy that will primarily be passed on to their colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27242	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I will need very little time to explain what is bothering us in the subject under discussion. (Milka Marinkovic: Your hair is bothering you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27244	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive and to listen to the speaker in peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27245	During today's day, Mr. Minister repeated something he said yesterday: "There will be justice in Serbia, even if the world fails". However, that sentiment is a little different: "Let the law be respected, and let all be destroyed." He's paraphrasing it a little. If that is the case, if the law is to be respected, then it is really not clear how without a previous act by the Supreme Court of Serbia, or the personal council, the end of the judicial duty may take place due to the completion of the working century. It's simply a legal reason to be respected. Secondly, Mr Pajtic, speaking of this subject, said that the rights acquired in public functions cannot be treated that way, that is, they are not available in the exercise of public functions. The same cannot be accepted because the law was passed, I am talking about a set of DSS laws later, when the Supreme Court's decision extended the term of office to 67 years. Then it could have been and then it wasn't acquired right. It's simply something that needs to be respected, because it was passed before the law went into effect, which was subsequently restricted. So this is not any acquired right in performing a public function. This could only have been done in case the law that was passed had a retroactive fact. That wasn't the case. Therefore, the DSS believes that in this way it is reaching for the methods that Slobodan Milosevic had and which, along with everything else that followed events in the regime, led to October 5th and regime shifts. In fact, it is very dangerous to replace judges in this way, because it puts pressure on the executive authority in judicial power and then it becomes a mess in the state. There's something else to say. It's about the guilt of why it wasn't a big personal matter. The large personal council is responsible for establishing the existence of the completion of the working century and has not worked from 25 September to 13 February of this year (that is, several months), precisely because the amendment was accepted in this assembly and was scheduled for members of the personal council to elect the National Assembly. Later, on September 25th, the Constitutional Court suspended this and puts it out of effect on February 13th of this year. The DOS's majority in this House and, of course, the Justice Committee are not responsible for the fact that the Great Personal Council has not worked. It's not the court's fault. That's why the DSS, purely for a principled reason, can't support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27246	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to Minister Batic, some driving lawyers appear here at the pay phone. Let me get this straight. I'm not even a driving lawyer. I'm not a lawyer at all. I am simply a righteous man who felt justice over his back and on his skin. For these reasons, I wanted to point out some illogicalness and violation of the Constitution and law regarding judicial authorities. This decision on the termination of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts is contrary to other laws that have already been passed here in parliament, as my predecessor said earlier, I would not repeat it, which is why the National Assembly has avoided making a decision on the choice of a personal council. But I'd like to talk about something else entirely. This is about pure self-loathing and rematchism. In fact, if we look at the names of these judges, we can conclude that this decision on the termination of the judge's office is actually done in one selective way. I'd say this is the moment the DOS majority lose control. So the executive power is losing control and wants to interfere with judicial jurisdiction. For example, the decision to suspend the court's office at the Sombor District Court, paragraph 5, - Beljanski Peter, the district judge in Sombor, enters into force on 28 August 2001. The question arises how the judge, which I was talking about, could make decisions from August 28th 2001 to the day, as he is still on the job of the District Court judge. So all those decisions he made are unconstitutional. That way, I don't want to accuse the District Court judge in Somboro or any judge, but I'd like to say that these things were not done by the Department of Justice. How the Ministry of Justice could now intervene, and it did not do so at a time when the National Assembly could not call and make a decision on the constitution, or election of the Great Personal Council. At that time, if nothing else, if the Assembly could not do so, it should have imposed an emergency because it was a large number of citizens who were illegally sanctioned, that is to say, a certain court ruling; because this retroactive law is just saying that judges who are in their duties today did not have the possibility to make any decisions under the law adopted in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27248	National MP Bojan Pajtic sought a replica as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27249	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just so there is no confusion, I agree with my distinguished colleague Budishin. I didn't introduce the category of rights acquired in the discussion, and I would never introduce it. It is, therefore, a private legal category, a dominantly real legal category and can never be applied to the area of public law because the public functions of these functions come by means of an act of choice, appointments, appointments or possibly in the monarchies of birth and cannot possibly be acquired the right. This may be some right that can be derivated by the decision of the one who made it, and in this case, the National Assembly. I think that's how we handle this National Assembly decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27250	The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27251	Ladies and gentlemen, little can be added to what the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr Dejan Mihajlov and Mr Dusan Budishin have said. I would add the essence of our opposition to such an illegal, anti-constitutional act, in one sentence. I am not far from the truth if I claim that the procedure is the core of democracy, that exactly respect for the procedure is the essence of the democratic relations and the democracy of a society, the possibility of achieving the right, whether individual or general. On the other hand, I ask the question of who is authorized not to comply with the procedure laid down in the law, the Constitution or some sublaws. Is it possible to empower someone, or, worse still, who can give himself the right to violate the established procedure and thus the law and the Constitution? Suppose exactly what Mr Hiber said in the opening statement - that the Supreme Court, or the Great personal council, violated the Law on Judges. There's no need to get into whether or not that's true, but let's assume that that's how it is to find out that the Supreme Court and the Greater Personality have violated the Judges Act. Is this then justified by the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice to act contrary to the Constitution, against the procedure laid down by the Constitution itself? Is this justified by the Assembly Committee on Justice and Administration to act contrary to the Constitution and, less than, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of this congregation? Will this and who will be able to justify this assembly to make a decision, and in this particular case a decision on resolution, contrary to the established procedure. Gentlemen, we must imagine ourselves above this, for in the past two years there have been many violations of the law, the Constitution and the selective application of the Constitution or the law. Gentlemen, by our pledge for legality, for constitutionality, for respect of the established procedure, we are just defending this apparent, and I say the apparent precisely because of the mandate and the tense majority in this House, the assembly majority. We defend them from themselves, for they themselves will agree that they will not rule forever. After coming down with power, many of them will be tried for contempt of the procedure, for contempt of the law. For this reason, we are now defending the current congregation majority and the current government by our pledge of legality, respect for the Constitution and the law. We defend them from their wrongful conduct. I understand their statements, or state that the Constitution has been violated by any judge who is over 65 years old in a working relationship. It's okay, but why are they forgetting this very constitution established procedure as to how the judge stops being a judge when he's 65 years old? Could they be justified by that provision of the Constitution that they do not respect the procedure. I remind you of Article 101(4) again. Serbia's constitution, which explicitly stipulates that there is a reason for the end of the judicial term, which includes the completion of the working century, determines the Supreme Court of Serbia and informs the National Assembly. We have a case... Yes, Mr. Hiber said they had a dilemma, but the dilemma was solved badly. We have a case that the minister of justice, i.e. the Justice Department, has put forward a proposal to the board of this assembly, the Justice Committee and the administration to get rid of the judges. It doesn't matter what number, 37. The Committee on Justice and Administration, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, which he probably knew, and had not known, was obliged to know this provision of the Constitution, the scale, the scale and decided that, contrary to the established procedure and the opposite of the Constitution, he would propose to this National Assembly that those judges be dismissed. We don't have a proposal for this decision you want to make. It's possible that this decision is correct. I'm not estimating the content of that decision. I call for respect for the procedure, gentlemen who you throw out of the assembly benches, I call for respect for the procedure, because the procedure is the essence and essence of democracy, if many of us even know what the procedure is and what the legality is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27252	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27253	Ladies and gentlemen, there's one in front of us, I'd say, and it would be normal to say, a naive proposal, one that shouldn't even be discussed. Someone worked 40 years or turned 65 years old, and it's perfectly natural and normal to stop him doing certain duties, to tell one of them -- well done, you've done fair work, you've devoted yourself to your function, so let your pension be nice, long live. They'd say to another -- well, thank God you turned 40 once, or 65 years old, and we got rid of you. It would be nice to say -- there will be some younger, more summering, who will have more elan and will, perhaps less at that moment of expertise and experience, but time will do its part, they will devote themselves to the work they do, of them will be good judges, prosecutors, bearers of high judicial functions. And I don't judge and regret anyone on this list, it's your right, it's the right of those who propose to do this. I even encouraged myself when I heard the minister who said he really didn't influence the choice of judges and prosecutors. I was pleased with the words of Professor Hiber who said that the law would apply equally and apply equally to everyone, both for all other public service employees and for legal holders. It's all nice, but I have experience. I'm giving you an example of the city of Nis. In Nis, this independent judiciary, independent of the minister, is independent of the influence of political parties, and as a coincidence, one of the officials of the Democratic Party, who is employed by the city administration, one of the officials of the Democratic Christian Party, the daughter of a member of the High Council of Justice, the daughter of someone's mother, who is a member of a third political party, etc. But what to do? The next power will come, and then, because of this, probably because of what was before, it will be "Joo again", then some others will replace those who are set up today, and then, as the government changes, someone will always be replaced. Where's the continuity and security of the judicial authorities, where's the independent judiciary? Where'd you hear that? I heard that at the veterinary station where you work. So if we're working this way today and you convince us that there's no interference in setting up legal holders, but that it's just a forced shift of generations, where someone who's turned a certain number of years of life normally leaves, and the younger ones are coming, that would be nice if it were true, but it's not true. So we haven't cleared the judiciary of political influences either, and it won't be good until it happens. And finally, let me just tell you, as you interpret the laws, as you interpret everything about the judiciary and the law, there's already been a very difficult curse in Nis:
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27254	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27255	The DSS bill on Serbian judges in article 53 reads: "The working age of the judge cannot be extended". We defended that attitude before the law was passed. Under earlier law, Supreme Court President Leposava Karamarkovic extends the working age to the judges Nikola Milosevic, Milovan Dedier, Zoran Ivosevic, Milev Gajinov and Aleksandro Rankovic. So they got it right by that law. The adopted Charter of Human Rights speaks of the fact that acquired rights cannot be touched. Therefore, since I heard the news that we were admitted to the Council of Europe today, the Strasbourg court is becoming competent. Much stronger countries have taken care of that. So I think we should take care of the fact at this point. Of course, for the other judges, these conditions were met, especially I think it was the will to have some judges dissolved much earlier, such as Jevrem Nedic and Aleksandar Ilic, but they remained until these days. On the other hand, the judge's office ends due to the completion of the post, when - October 2000 and January 2000. They've raised salaries, so they're entering a retirement internship and this salary that's been raised over the last two years. How is it possible that their working life will not end today, but will end in 2000, 2001, etc. I think they should have thought about it, because it also affects their pension base, which is not worthless. So I think this proposal should be withdrawn, arranged in accordance with the law, and then decided. This is how it gets the impression that it's a political showdown, and it's unnecessary for them to say that today, tomorrow they're saying that they were the ones who were responsible, they're turning into victims, completely wrong. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27256	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS is 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27257	The rule is that the Constitution is respected and the laws are applied. And it is good that the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee said in the first sentence that this proposal was based on the provisions of the Constitution and the law. It is good that the president of the DOS parliamentary group also said that today's topic is the Constitution and the law, but constitutionality and legality do not know the category of selective application of the Constitution, i.e. selective respect for the provisions of the Constitution and selective application of certain provisions of the law. This means that if 20 MPs use the right guaranteed by the Constitution to submit a proposal to vote for mistrust to the Republic government, and it is fully in accordance with the Constitution, it must be on the agenda, and then no one can say - you did not vote for that government, you do not have the right to submit that proposal. Unfortunately, most of them voted here for something that couldn't even be voted. I'm saying this more because of consistency in respect of the Constitution and application of the law, that we know which field we're in. There used to be a rule that revolution would eat its children, today it's a rule that revolution would trample on its children. The coverage for this is primarily in the fact that some judges (not all of them from 1 to 35) have been returned to court thanks to the decision to put out of force a decision on their resolution. Which was the basis for that decision - there is no basis. It's just like now when the National Assembly, past the Constitution, past the law, found some self-recognizable basis for revolutionary justice about the emotions of a certain individual and also put an earlier decision than 20 years ago out of force. This is all because we know where we're going, how the law is stretching, and how it depends on the majority and respect of the Constitution and the application of the law, and in this room the most depends on these cards that are in these voting units. So we heard from the motions of this decision; it is the proposing Committee on Justice and Administration, but we do not know who initiated the procedure before that committee. The procedure was initiated by an unauthorized one, which is the minister of justice. He does not have that authority under the provisions of the Law on Judges. He has some authority only on the issue of judicial administration, which is a personal sheet, Article 68, Rules of Procedure, Rule 70, and something concerning the consequences of the supervision of Article 72. In those provisions, there is no authority on him to initiate proceedings before the Justice and Administration Committee. So the procedure was unauthorized in front of this committee. The Committee proposed and probably found the basis for such a decision in the draft law on amendments to the Law on Judges. That's the last item on the agenda. Why he found the basis in the draft, and it's not the first time. Gašo Knezevic found the basis in the preconditions of laws that were not passed today. He only called on Article 63. The Law on Courts and, you see, was mentioned by the Official Messenger 63/01; he forgot the Proposer, since it was a great speed, that in 2002 amendments to the Law on Judges were made, so he did not have time to state it. Of course, in the explanation the motionary goes on. It states that certain provisions of the Law on Judges which regulate the reasons for the termination of the judicial function are imperative and, of course, since the imperial nature are then really surprising what is written under number 21, that this man fulfilled the conditions for retirement on 16 August 2000. In that previous Law on Courts, resolutions could be carried out, i.e. the termination of the court’s office for this reason, by much simpler procedure. But it wasn't done then. It wasn't even done in 2001. Why? Because these judges were needed back then. They had to finish some jobs, so the moment these jobs ended, when they misunderstood what DOS-mania understood under the independence and independence of the judiciary, they came under the influence of the Constitution and the law, past the mandated promoter, after an urgent procedure. The procedure is so urgent that it can be seen that the persons listed from 26 to 32 do not have a date when they met the conditions for retirement. It is also interesting to see point 2 of that decision. You probably haven't had a chance to hear this before, to formulate a provision like this. He says that these judges have met the conditions for stopping the judge's office - and the law knows the term "cause", not "conditions". Furthermore, he says, their judicial duty has ceased since the day of entry into force of this decision. When is that? We only have point three, which says that the decision is published in the Official Messenger. We have article 64. The law on judges that says, or indicates what is the day on which the judge's office has ceased. Of course, the question arises, what about the past work from the day of meeting the conditions for retirement until today? What about these judgments; decisions; whose decision did these judges take part in? Of course, these are all some topics and some questions that only the parliamentary majority can answer at this time, but no matter what answer is given today, we all have to be aware that this is how we form one practice. We are forming a practice that binds us, and it will not be possible for the National Assembly to act differently in the same situations during the application of one law and the same provisions. By adopting this decision today, we are manifesting and proving that we are acting in a different way in exactly the same situation. The next thing you know, if the Great personal council couldn't fulfill its functions, or do business in its jurisdiction, and these are the previous affairs until the proposal comes, or the decision of the Supreme Court president before the Justice and General Administration Committee, the question arises, who is responsible for this? Someone has to be responsible, a team before we hear here that there are imperative norms of some law. Of course, we didn't get an answer to that. We have received something that is only insinuation, that is, to understand that there is some justification, that the Supreme Court and the Greater Personality dealt with themselves, constitutionality and the legality of several provisions of the law, and did not fulfil its obligation, nor did it carry out its work under its jurisdiction. This cannot be a valid reason for the National Assembly, and this is contrary to the reasoning of this decision. The reasons for this decision and the reasons set out by the President of the Committee are completely contrary. There's no telling what's binding on us here, what to give faith to, whether it's a written explanation or an oral word from the president of that committee. This must be taken into account, because otherwise we come to a situation where the National Assembly decides from case to case and does not become an organ that respects the Constitution and the laws, but becomes an organ that respects only the opinion of one part of the MPs who at some point can be the majority. This is how the National Assembly should not work, for it would be a bad example to other institutions and bodies. The one playing with the Constitution and the law takes a big risk. You need to know one thing, the provisions of laws that are not in accordance with the Constitution can never produce the legal fact that it obliges, regardless of the identification cards. If that's how the Constitution works, then it comes to this situation that we're in today. So, the people who helped with their great internship, made it possible for them to live from January 25, 2001 so that our judiciary is now no longer needed, now some trainees will come to their posts, some experts without a day's work, which has become a manners since DOS was in power. It'll start with law enforcement. You know how they'll apply those laws. At the very end, no one defends these judges. If he's met his retirement conditions and he's supposed to go into retirement? If he fulfilled those conditions in 2001, why didn't he retire? What was that reason to wait until today? Could it be that he is a member of the Society of Judges, which is similar, that he can carry out the revolutionary will, which he knows to shape and reverse any member of the law? A bright example of this is Zoran Ivosevic, who was co-ordinator at the Supreme Court, in charge of all proceedings before the court where political persecution of non-insistents is being carried out. Documentation has been collected and has many decisions and has a lot of witnesses about his influence from the court on the judicial council and on some colleagues who participated in some proceedings. To all who participated in these wicked affairs, remember, the judge's office has ceased, and have not experienced this satisfaction in professional circles that anyone respects them anymore. Take care when you professionally explain something here, everything is recorded here, everything is remembered. It makes a man both as a person and as a professional in an area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27258	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure. There's no sign-ins. Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, do the proposing representatives want to give the final statement, as referred to in Article 138. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, they don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have conducted a unique search on the proposals for decisions of the National Assembly today, in the voting day, as set out by the National Assembly president, it decides on proposals for decisions in general. I'm setting the voting hour in voting day at 1800 hours, today March 19th, and I ask all MPs to be correct. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-19-0.u27259	To approach the vote, please check if we have a quorum to decide. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum, so we can approach the vote. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts (vote) After the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts in principle and in particular, I put the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts in principle. Four of the 127 MPs present were not voted for 123. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. We're moving on to decision-making in detail. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 117, two abstentions, five of the 127 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, George Mamul, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 113, the abstention of three, was not voted by eight, out of a total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Peric, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote six, out of a total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, George Mamul, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 115, two abstentions, did not vote seven, of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Peric, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 120, the abstentions were not voted by six, of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted nine, out of a total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Peric, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 121, five of the 127 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Peric, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 122, four of the 127 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Perić, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 121 abstentions, there were no five votes, out of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Peric, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 121, six of the 128 MPs attended did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk, Ljubisa Maravic, Hranislav Peric, Toma Busetic, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 121, six out of the 128 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that MP Dragor Hiber, by amendment to Article 9, which has become an integral part of the bill, has proposed a feedback of this provision. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, shall, when voting on those provisions, decide in particular whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I would like to put the motion to vote for the provision of Article 9. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 123, against three, three of the 129 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a proposal that the provision of Article 9 has a return to the fact of which there is a general interest. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts in general. For 124, a abstentioned one, not three, of 128 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts in general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organies in the Subsidisation of Organized Crime (A Voting) I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the control of organised crime in principle. Two out of 128 MPs voted for 126. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. I remind you that during the search of the bill, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to the Second People's MP, Dragor Hiber. We're moving on to decision-making in detail. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted jointly by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Slobodan Tomovic, Dragan Todorovic and Ljubisa Maravic. For one, against 119, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, out of a total of 128 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Slobodan Tomovic, Dragan Todorovic and Ljubisa Maravic. For one, against 119, eight of the 128 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that MP Dragor Hiber, by amendment to Article 2 which has become an integral part of the bill, has proposed a feedback of this provision, which is needed to be declared by the National Assembly. I would like to put the motion to vote for the provision of Article 2. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 123, there are no two abstentions, no three votes, of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 2. It's a bill of law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime in general. Two out of 128 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges (vote) to vote on the amendment and addition of the Law on Judges in principle. For 124, abstention one, not three, of a total of 128. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that during the search of the bill, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment with an amendment to Article 9, which was submitted by MP Predrag Stojanovic. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic and Slobodan Adzic. For three, against 119, six of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic and Slobodan Adzic. For two, against 117, one abstention, did not vote eight, out of a total of 128 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic and Slobodan Adzic on Article 7. For one, against 118, the two abstentions, did not vote seven, out of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. I put the amendments to the 10th joint vote by MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic and Slobodan Adzic. For two, against 119, seven of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges in general. For 124, against one, a abstentioned one, was not voted by two, of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS, NAMES, ASSESSMENTS AND FINISHMENTS OF THE AUTHORITIES OF JUSTICE FUNCTIONS (vote) Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on proposals for the termination of functions and selection of judicial officials, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, with a correction of 19 March 2003. For 125, against two, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, with a correction of 19 March 2003. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the duties of the public prosecutor's office. For 124, five of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of public prosecutors. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the discharge of the district attorney's office in Prokuplje. For 121, two abstentions, five did not vote, of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the discharge of the district attorney's office in Prokuplje. I put the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor. As the National Assembly decided on all agenda points, I conclude the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Just a brief notice - a session of the Legislative Committee will be held.
