ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34021	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please insert identification cards into your ambassador's units to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Juhas Atila, Marijan Risticevic, Dragan Kovacevic, Veselin Jankovic, Vlatko Sekulović and Petar Misic. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – I remind you that at the end of the previous day of work of the National Assembly, the reply to the presentation of Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy was requested by MP Zoran Angelkovic, deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Angelkovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34022	I asked for the first replica of the presentation of Minister Vlahovic at 1600 hours, and then I didn't get it, and then Minister Djelic answered and I asked for a replica and for his presentation, and then Minister Vlahovic answered again, including his presentation, and so I asked for three replicas, but I'm looking for two. That's for the simple reason, of course, that it's your right to delay this debate, because obviously from what the government has been wanting these few days, because it hasn't filed a written report based on which we would talk, to achieve oral exposure here to sit here for a month, and then we vote. We don't mind, I'm just asking to make a schedule and get a word in when we're looking, since the ministers here are giving us 45 minutes of exposure. It's also not a dispute, I'm just asking that when they expose us we have the right to win and answer that, not to answer after three days, when you forget what's been said. Mr. Vlahovic is here, responding to my replica that he was Tito's scholarship student, and that he deserved it because he was an excellent student, said a few things. First of all, I didn't question that Mr. Vlahovic was an excellent student, a wolf, because if he hadn't been, he wouldn't have been Tito's scholarship. The communists knew they were running a good personnel policy. They would never have provided for someone to be Tito's scholarship if he hadn't been a great student. That's not at all controversial. In addition, if communists were good at leading human policy, one third of the MPs who were my former youth comrades, past youth schools, were party personnel, although one party, some changed several, and I stayed in one. Some, meanwhile, changed three or four because they knew how to choose. They picked some for scholarships, some for youth officials and party officials. Unlike Mr. Vlahovic, I became the director of a social company after three years of work, at the age of 23, I was a 10-year-old director, a professor in education, and you discuss everything in the government you have from education. When it comes to understanding and privatisation, what are we different from, Mr. Vlahovic? Not you and me, but the citizens and you, the union and you. You said here that you did the best privatisation business with the tobacco industry, but collect how much money is provided from the privatisation of the entire tobacco industry, Vranja, Nisa, three cements, all the sugar companies, a few hundred more companies; you total got below a billion euros, and that for how many years, and only 49% of Telekom is literally almost two billion. When it comes to whether it's a good sale of Telekom or not, the previous president probably told you it's one of the best jobs the previous government has done. For 29% of Italians, they paid 700 million. You'll say marks, but it's the same as now the euro, and you paid 190 million to buy it. So 500 million dollars was made by the government at the job. Personally, your former president told me it was the best job the government has done, and you have to agree. When you sell a state-owned company and buy out half a million euros on one job, then you can say that privatisation is good, but stop this privatisation, at least repay those workers who have scholarshipd you, give them shares and property, because they manage better than the government manages. Another replica to Mr. Djelic's presentation. (President: You can't get two replicas. You've got one replica. You're criticizing us to stall, and then you come out looking for two replicas. I haven't heard that before. You could have asked for five replicas. ) Miss or Mrs Natasa Micic, the president, as you wish, I would like to remind you that I asked for a replica at 16.20 p.m., in the meantime, a word was given by one minister, another minister, third minister, Prime Minister. If you do not want to give two replicas then do not disrespect the Rules of Procedure here and then do not allow the replica when the right to the replica has. After Mr Djelic's presentation, Mr Krasic received the replica, and I didn't get it even though I was announced, so if I didn't get it, and I got it now, please allow me to respond to Mr Djelic, or you want me not to be able to answer the minister who talks about it. If you don't want to say that, you're here to expose as many ministers, to let it go on television, and to think that it's the only thing Serbia needs to hear, not what opposition MPs think. It is your right, but don't think that Serbian citizens will believe it That's what I expected from the president who doesn't trust this Parliament. [[President: You do not have the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34023	You'll get a chance. The debate is only at the beginning. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34024	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is not unusual that colleague Angelkovic has a problem with the presentation of ministers from the Republic government, since each minister must start from the beginning, so from that cataclysm he inherited in his portfolio to what he did. The only possible analysis is an analysis where you start from a zero point, so from the first day, what is the state of your portfolio and what that state looks like after 1,000 days. The entire government inherited a bombed-out country, inherited 380,000 refugees by various media houses and experts, a debt, or a country that was plagued by between 150 billion euros and 200 billion euros, inherited huge losses in civil wars, huge losses in times of bombing, huge losses resulting from the unreasonable adventurous policies of the previous government of national unity. She inherited a terrible figure of 5,000 family pensioners, people who lost their loved ones in wars, who had no meaning and who proved to be a complete failure, both internal and external policies of the previous government and the previous regime. From such dramatic data to banal things that gasoline was bought in meadows, that drugs were cheaper, but absolutely nowhere was it possible to find them, that the current on average was disabled every third day of 2000, so every third day they were electricity restrictions; until the government of national unity in 1993 caused hyperinflation, which was more severe than Argentinean and which entered all the economic policies, as the largest economic monster that ever hit one economy. Debts according to their own population, inherited from the Jazda Robbery system, Dafina, an old foreign exchange savings, amounted to about 12 billion euros, with the government returning about 20% of the debt from the old foreign currency savings already. A fully institutionalised system of looting the population through the introduction of a monopoly system, through the purchase of exchange rates per official course, and the sale of black exchange rates, through the quota system, through a system of sales, i.e. the placing on the market of excise products without paying taxes, through a system of abuse of loans for economic development. So 18 different, through regulations and the laws of the systems introduced, which meant directly dragging their hands into the pockets of the population and the directly debilitating economy of this country. The government has led to a complete collapse of institutions, and evidence in favour of this is the fact that in the previous term, this parliament sat for only three days, and in the second year in the previous session, it only sat for seven days. The fact that Mr. Dragan Tomic, as speaker of parliament, had had three requirements in his drawer for resolving him as Parliament's president, and he never put any demands on the agenda, talks about the deep moral collapse and the tragic legacy left to this government. In such cataclysm, in which the government entered, at the beginning of its mandate, it had four basic tasks: the first task is integration into European flows, integration into international organisations, the constitution of the rule of law, the democratisation of society and the establishment of a market economy. The integration into international organisations is known, therefore, from the Council of Europe through the re-activatement of membership in the United Nations to the excellent way of entering the European Union, as a strategic direction managed not only by the government, but also by Parliament when adopting legal projects aimed at harmonising our right with European Union law. The constitution of the rule of law – 142.zakons speak sufficiently in favour of this, as well as 134 decisions adopted by this Parliament, and 90% of these acts were proposed by the Republic Government and went towards the constitution and by the rule of law in which we all swear. The "Sabbe" action was, despite all the things we can hear these days, the most extensive action against organised crime in Europe after World War II, which we do not say, we have not found at any time, we are in the course of this action "Sabbe" received in the Council of Europe and it is the only relevant information that follows the fate and legal consequences of what is in the course of the "Sabbe" action done. Everything else is not relevant and everything else represents a clear politicisation of the case. The other thing is Kosovo. Kosovo as part of Serbia's territory, Kosovo over which we do not give up formal sovereignty, and unfortunately, we do not have actual sovereignty. The government is in a position to be legitimate, a relevant negotiator on Kosovo's fate. It's still very far, of course, from the final outcome. It is even further from a favourable outcome for us, but it is quite certain that it is a much better position than we had in 2000, when it was absolutely not relevant what Serbia thinks of Kosovo, what Serbia's view of Kosovo is. Today, Serbia is a factor without which no one can talk about Kosovo, let alone take a step. The democraticization of society -- it speaks enough in favour of the situation that we have today on the political scene, the state of the media. So, today we have political freedoms, today we do not have political closures, the persecution of political inexperiences, today standards are in line with the standards of the Council of Europe, and this accession to the Council of Europe speaks in favour of what has been done in this area and how far we have gone in this area in a very short time. As far as businesses are concerned, and we often hear various respects here, today the course relative to that Argentine hyperinflation is fully stable, today our currency is fully stable, today Serbia is a model of monetary stability. The electricity situation, and we said that every third day of 2000 we had power restrictions, has been stabilised and 1,249m euros have been invested in the electricity system, and 371m euros are only from donations. If we compare this data to the fact that in 2000 we had $25 million foreign investment, so, a total of 14 times less foreign investment in all areas of economic and social life, 14 times less than through donations, so grants, invested in the electricity system, that's a data that in itself says a lot. Privatisation abroad, and they welcome us as a completely transparent, completely public; the law that we adopted before this parliament is in line with all the standards that have been adopted in other transition countries, leading to a billion euro from privatisation, that 667 million euros, so a billion and 300 million marks, have been invested in investments, and 261m euros or over 500m marks have been invested in social programmes. This is the data itself that says that the privatisation funds served primarily to improve the situation in the economy, for social programmes, for investment in municipal infrastructure, because the Privatisation Act predicted that 5% of the privatisation funds go into the budgets of local self-government. Who is in the interest that at this point the government, supported by the German Chancellor himself, came on the evening before the start of the debate on the government and directly supported it, which is a signal that this government is probably or certainly the government with the best international position, I would say, in the last 100 years? I won't be pretentious if I put it that way, because it's an indicator that's completely objective. So it's not an indicator that's been removed and that's left to our subjective interpretation. It is in the interest of those who advocate the European Union, declaratively, while at the same time favouring self-sustaining Serbia, with the expertly viewed the exact opposite of what the European Union sets as a formal precondition for the stabilisation and accession process. Those who are closer to a situation where someone from the SPS, not the GSS, or those who do not feel bad about buying MPs and providing seats through the purchase of MPs, provide votes in this parliament. To us, such an approach is completely foreign, completely unacceptable. We will never use such means. Our number will not increase at any time, and that is what we can promise the citizens of Serbia. We can also promise Serbian citizens that thanks to this government and this parliament, all processes in Serbia are irreversible. So, never Serbia in economic, political, cultural and social terms will look like Serbia in 2000 and the year before. It is certain that what we can promise Serbian citizens is that the Serbian government will be the first government in the transition to welcome a winning second term and continue to do its reform work. That is why the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's reform will vote in favour of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34025	You want to use the line? You might want to refrain from efficiency, how do I know, come on in, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34026	I'm not complaining at all, we don't mind the Prime Minister going to China, waiting for it, so let's move on later. Whatever you want, we don't object, just so we know what's the order. Mr. President of the Parliamentary Group has now spoken of past times, but when you talk about past times, you first talk about the stability of the dinars. The course is stable not because it's good production, but because we took the good loans we need to pay back with interest in the next period. That's why it's a stable course. One bigger problem - you need us to answer here how it is possible to export 700,000 tonnes in the last year, in this year, to export wheat when the largest drought is $80 per tonne, and now to import $200 per tonne. As possible and why it is possible that there are now only 100-150 thousand tonnes of wheat for one month for the needs of the Serbian state, if it is known to be drought. You've been paying attention to us exporting wheat for $165. When we exported $165 wheat, then the state of Serbia bought a million and 200,000 tonnes of wheat. The day before yesterday Djelic here told us that for the first time, he had bought out the wheat and paid for everything. How much was bought? Three thousand and two hundred tons. That's a peasant, a good peasant in Vojvodina. And in 1995, it was bought and paid for wheat, and that government only exported 300,000 tons of dollars each, and now you're importing $200, and you're selling $80. That's what you answer us for, so we can see where that difference is. What's this about? Answer us how it is possible for G17 to give a warrant to be given flour to bakers in Serbia at the end of 2000 for a billion and 540 million and instead of coming back, to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 to make a decision and pay it to the flour stores. I've already asked that question here, but I never got an answer. Let's finally do it today, when we talk about the government's trust, to figure out if you funded G17 plus when you were in good relationships or if you were doing something else. Give us an answer whether Dinkic or the National Bank of Yugoslavia or the PDO, whether he paid the tax on financial transactions. Fourteen billion was income in that sector of the National Bank. In 2001, it was a similar income, 2002, meaning that over five billion were meant to be a tax on financial transactions, due to be paid in the government's budget of the Republic of Serbia to pay banks for these financial transactions. Is that tax paid? If he didn't, why didn't he get paid and who set him free, whose signature it was freed and whether someone had the right to release someone in such a way that amount of money, 5.5 billion dinars of taxes; or whether it was love then with Dinkic, so he could be released. So that's what we're gonna see. We are talking not about a thousand days of government, but about the government of the Republic of Serbia from March to today and about this policy, but we are also talking about these moves and figures that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34027	Replication rights, MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party, and then representative of G17, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34028	Mr Pajtic is a proverbial inspiration for MPs, because he uses one proven method to some of Murphy's laws, so in 2000 he puts something that was a hundred years ago. So we heard that the biggest inflation was in 2000, and that Dafina and Jadda made some 12 billion-euro deficit. It's in the stenogram, what you said. If Mr Pajtic had read a little more books, there is a beautiful book published in 1994, it has a nice title "What robs the left, doesn't know the right". Mr. Kastratovic could have given you that book, too, since it was described in that book. It's a survey committee report that discussed what happened in 1993 with these banks. A large book, 400 pages, very instructive, has many of your members described in that book, and part of what they were doing. When you talk about "Sabreya," remember, Mr. Pitiæ, as long as you live above you, there are 11,000 families who have come into a situation where one of their loved ones is in prison, that he's been arrested, that he spent two or three months in prison, that no one has come to ask them why they're in jail, and I guess he gets arrested first if there's any evidence, not if there's any doubt. That's what you should know, because you're in some profession. The only thing that's true -- indeed for the past hundred years we haven't had such a government that has had so much support from abroad; support from Shredder, you know that on June 10, 1999, he simply jumped out of luck when Ahtisaari told him that an agreement was finally signed, and the government was about to fall; you have the support of Blair, Solana, Thaci, Rugova, and you talked to him in 1998, but that support means nothing to you, because everyone wrote you off, absolutely all of you. Last night your television log confirmed our views here on agricultural production. Remember once, between 100,000 tons and a million tons there's a big difference. Because of a million tons, one procedure was conducted, so the defendant acted condescendingly and begged Judge Caulin to forget that one zero. You big experts would have to know what a million tons means, which is the surface, how long it takes you to take it out. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) Be careful not to ruin the little democracy left in this country by making your views known.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34029	National MP Sredoje Mihajlov has requested the right to reply, in connection with the presentation of MP Zoran Angelkovic, where the G17 was mentioned, but the MP told me he was referring to the institute, not the party, but you will receive on behalf of the institute a right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34030	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs, I really thought it was referring to the party, but the G17 decided that everything he thought was wrong, which was negative, to tell the public, to announce and not amnest any of its members, if he had something, so we just think that everything that was pushed under the carpet and that didn't want to be told publicly, we made it transparent. We're ready to keep on doing that; don't worry, we'll all be on the same scale, so I believe we won't hurt anyone on purpose, and all those who have something behind them that they're afraid of will be publicly stamped when they get to the line. We started with the head, the way the fish cleans.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34031	Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Tourism, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34032	Dear People's MPs, here we have today a situation for opposition MPs to present unverified, untrue or semi-true information. This is where we heard from Mr. Angelkovic that this year, the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate bought about 3,000 tons of wheat, which is simply not true. 46,300 tonnes of seed wheat and 3.175 tonnes of mercantile wheat were purchased, which means that some 50,000 tonnes of wheat were purchased in total. It is also true that funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the purchase of the total amount of wheat were provided, however individual agricultural producers and cooperatives were not willing to sell under the conditions under which we in the budget provided funds for the purchase of wheat. It is also false that this year the wheat exported from the Republic Directorate and this year the Republic of the Reserve Directorate imported wheat. No kilograms of wheat has been exported from the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate this year, and no kilograms of wheat has been imported, and these are facts and truths. As for 2001 and 2002, a total of 431,851 tonnes of mercantile wheat and 26,377 tonnes of seed wheat were purchased in 2001. In 2002 297.116 tonnes of mercantile wheat and 27,457 tonnes of seed wheat were purchased. These are official data reports on the work of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services. He's public and he's been forwarded to the board, and that's information that's absolutely available to anyone who wants to check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34033	The word has a representative of the promoter, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34034	Let's get back on the subject for which we're asking for a vote of mistrust to this government, not to discuss what the ministers would like. What they want, they can do in government sessions, and here's what we want. I will only return briefly to 1999, related to electricity shortages, according to a representative of a parliamentary group here; on 19 December 1999, after NATO aggression, and it is known that the most electricity consumption in St. Nicholas was produced at 145 million kilowatt hours. That's what you've never done. You remember those graphite bombs -- two hours later, they drop those graphite bombs, we get electricity again. I don't know what shortage you're talking about. When it comes to power shortages, I remember that in 1982, there really was a shortage of electricity and power restrictions. I had a little kid back then, so that's why I remember. I remember that we were driving a couple, but that was somewhere in 1981, and then it was either Milka Planinc or Branko Mikulić, who was president of the Federal Executive Council, I don't remember. If you're talking about that time, then what you said might make sense. If you're talking about that period in 1998-1999 and 2000. By October 5th, then you obviously weren't in the country and you don't know what this is about. What hurts you more or less now, and Minister Pitic, I guess, says he wasn't surprised that the US Congress Senate didn't give that 92 million dollars, and it was counting on it, and it wasn't the first time that you were blackmailed, the man confessed, and clearly it was blackmail. You have to understand that you can't count on foreign donations and foreign loans anymore, what we told you in the opening statement, and that we have to turn to our own reserves. You haven't been able to do that, but you've realized now what we've been telling you for years, ever since you came to power, and even the policy of the SRS is like that. From the West we can get a lot, we can work together, we can work together, we can see their technology, we can also see their laws, how advanced they are than our own, we can agree on a lot of things. There's also capital, so can some credit, if we can get it back and if we know what we're putting it into. But we can only sell our products in the East. Here comes the Prime Minister. He's going to China now. He realized it was the only way. We go to China, we have to go to Arab countries, we can work with them, with South America, on that matter. Is it little of the world, besides Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, that we are selling our products, such a small country in the Balkans? No, it just needs to get in your head so that on one basis we can talk to the West, and that on the other hand we need to talk to the East. You're not here, as far as I can see, at the receptions of these embassies of countries from Africa, Asia, South America. That's where you don't go, you don't think you should go there, and then how you jump out to go to China I really don't know, and how they even receive you. I picked up the most for one thing, which is why I was gunned down, which is pretty binding for the building minister. At the end of last week's session, he spoke to me about legalizing expenditures, which I cited, saying one thing about a congregation pay phone that is very binding on him. He said -- we pressured the city council and the local self-government that an object of up to 100 square meters couldn't cost more than 45,000. When we subtract these 30,000 which must cost you just to pay for the various fees, the geometres, and so on, it turns out that another 15,000 should be paid. Then the news went in, I think, to the last journal of RTS, the minister of the building at the pay phone and said - we pressured the local self-government and city council to make the legalisation price for the facility up to 100 square meters be... And cut, it doesn't say 45,000 dinars. They shouldn't have said that, because someone out there realized, after what the minister said, how binding it is and that it has the elements of a crime, unless that's the case. Now I tell you here and the public of Serbia -- we hold to the word of the Minister of Construction that legalisation in Belgrade for an object of up to 100 square meters cannot cost more than 45,000 dinars, because he said so. Second, he made one lie, saying what the number of demands is. If he's required to mean a simple white paper on which he writes his name, last name and address where the object is located, that it's a request for legalization, then he's right. But that's not it. That's what people have put up with, thinking that maybe it's enough not to tear them down -- it won't be these long, so legalization will probably be under some new law, or it'll go through what radicals are looking for, to put this law out of force. So it's not true. What's worse, these days you're going after Zemun, by a new settlement, by members of the Democratic Party, by that safe voice method, you've been doing it in previous elections, and you tell the citizens -- if you join the Democratic Party and if you vote for candidate Dragoljub Micunovic, you won't be shot down. So you've been collecting signatures this weekend in a new neighborhood, in the streets: Romania, Montenegro, Garibaldieva. The citizens are at your disposal, and I have the names of the people the activists have been coming to. That's it. I'm not gonna give up this legalization as easily as you thought. The minister went out for 10-15 minutes and said something, so we finished the job. No, I don't. I ask the following question to the building minister: what about those who started the legalisation procedure before the law was passed and paid for everything they had to pay for? Nothing. That should do it. Well, that's not true. They say in the local self-government that it is not valid, because it was the one they say, the legalization robbery law, which didn't work, was immediately hitched off, because the Democrats and the SPOs were in power and they didn't give legalisation, they completely stopped, knowing what they were preparing and knowing what they could expect from legalisation, how much money it was. For example, one man concluded a contract with the City Building Land Directorate, fully regulated the compensation for the construction of city building land, paid, no less, but almost a million dinars, 30 September 2002. They say now, sir, this no longer applies, what you paid for, you paid for it, and now you need a new legalization request, otherwise we're taking you down. This was a robbery law. I don't know what he's like. Do you know how many people like that are there? The building minister has to answer that particular question. The contract is valid, concluded between the Directorate for City Building Land and a certain gentleman whose name I will not say; subject to contract: regulation of compensation for urban construction land for an unlawfully built manufacturing-business facility in the village of Kumodraz. That's all I can tell you. About what you did on the Blue Bridge, I won't even talk about it. They say green grass should come out, everything should be back to its original state. Objects worth about 20m euros have been torn down, about 1,000 of them are out of work, and now people are asking the question: are we so rich to close 80 firms? Who's using the collapse of 10,000 square meters of business space? Is it time to leave 1,000 workers without a job and their family members without a existence? Who profited by causing damage to owners, the total value of 10m euros? They also asked questions here about Mr. Mihajlovic, about the assistance, and about Mr. Batic, because they've filed criminal charges, but I'm not going to spread the story here, not to say I'm stalling too much. So I'm asking you who's doing it for, because you're doing it and you prefer green grass, as if we're going to go and feed the grass instead of the production facilities, which in themselves have value. Because if there's something state, there's real estate, it doesn't matter whose property they're in, especially if they're in private property, they won't fly anywhere. It's our fortune. Even if something is produced in these facilities, so a new value is created, so taxes and contributions are paid, it can only be good for the country. We've been waiting 30, 40, 50 years for green grass. On the other hand, you're destroying the Hive. There you build wherever you want, by Topcider, you can cut down trees 100 years old. It doesn't matter because it's interesting for a variety of fairies and forks and something like that. There's a lot of paperwork, buried me since this morning, about this legalization and abuse, but I'm not going to read all that. I ask, therefore, the question of Minister Shumarts -- to whom all these contributions are being made, specifically, what about those who have already paid everything they need in the legalisation process, and now they're being forced to relegate, so when you leave the government, some others come, by that principle they could re-administer new laws and say, "It all starts from us again." You have to understand that it's the state authorities, that the government can change, but the state authority is bound by the signing of a contract. What Mr Pajtic said, I call him here, he says - political freedoms, no vindictiveness since 2000, since the Democrats have been in power, political tolerance. Then why are you kicking the SRS out of business rooms? As you are not ashamed to throw a political parliamentary party without any legal basis out of the rooms that have been acquired legally, more legally than you Democrats have acquired your business space, because you took the space for a long term lease, for 30 years, but from the DIPOS, the Diplomatic Business Area. They couldn't take it. I tell you, if you throw the SRS out of its premises, the next parliamentary elections will be held from the Democratic Party's premises. That's how it's gonna be, no kidding with us, you know that. We don't recognize the power, we respect the law, but nothing has begun with you, nor will it all end with you. What citizens are going through, about their facilities, about the destruction of lawless objects, and apparently they can legalize them, is going through your political insatiables as well. You think -- come on, we're removing trafics from the main streets, making her ugly, crinkling there, selling candy, newspapers, chocolates; today we're taking away, five meters away tomorrow is not the same thing, but someone who looks like you, someone you owe something to. That way, my people, it can't work, because we can't share citizens, who's like them, who's not like who's in my party, who's in someone's party. Everyone has to use their rights, according to their ability to develop, to pay the state what it has to pay and none of it escapes, just don't let them do it. I wanted so much to go back to this legalization and to Mr. Schumartz, if he could answer these citizens. In any case, this is where the litigation is going, and it's all bound by those who signed the contracts, so let them scratch when criminal charges start to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34035	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34036	Just for a little while, since the party I belong to is mentioned here and one impossible situation, which is that anyone from the Democratic Party promises someone something because they're going to sign some paper that says in the title - the Democratic Party. I think we've been hearing stories here for the third day about how some people imagine how they'll behave if they're ever in power. As you can see, and as people who watch this transmission see, it would be terrible, but there is no danger, there will be no power, so this will remain only, not beautiful, but ugly dreams. You mentioned the Blue Bridge and some greenery around it. I understand your interest in the Blue Bridge, but I don't think that's the issue of the government debate. All about urbanism will be told by the Minister of Urbanism, but I will tell you what you asked about I'll explain to you the Blue Bridge, if you don't understand. [[Throwing it out of the bench.]] The Blue Bridge is a major problem of this country, and that is why the logical interest of every political party and every politician is to eradicate this anomaly of our social life. But, let me tell you, about the foreign policy definition of this country and the pressures that we are under, I would remind you that this request from the US Congress on conditions of aid granted by the United States to Serbia-Montenegro also existed in 2000, 2001 and 2002, and this year, probably next year, as you heard, and that is ugly, it is not good news that it can be called a good relationship with us, but it is definitely that we have another part of that story, which is that the condition has never been implemented until the end, or that the aid still came every year. But it's a less important thing. It's not true that this government expects to live off donations. It's not true that this government wants to make donations the future of this country, because no one lives anywhere, so neither will we, nor was that ambition ever. More importantly, what happened today, an hour ago, is that a stable status of normal trade relations between the United States and Serbia has been signed. It's a practical elimination of customs from about 20% on all products coming from our country. What's the matter with our products? I agree that we place most of the product on the Eastern market and that's bad, and that's the consequence of what we no longer want to repeat, what's called the previous government. In fact, it was done by bad authority, sanctions and bombing that now our products are technologically low than the reality, that all those markets we had 10 to 20 years ago are not our markets anymore, that even the China market is no longer our market. I'm not going to China to help our businesses place their goods, because those who can already do it themselves, I'm going to China to try to settle the debts that have been created for the past 10 years, which are debts over $600 million. Let me let you know that we're on our way to a debt, which is a debt of crude oil, to NIS according to "Sinochem" by getting a big write-off of interest, favourable conditions for reprogrammed debt and a longer period of payment. That's the basic goal of visiting China, unfortunately. Surely you will be able to see all opportunities for political co-operation, for business co-operation, but this government will not run what was once called a party-economic delegation, because that time has passed. There's nothing in any government to open any market, any businessman, by leading him by his hand. The government opens its country's market by creating economic conditions for its country's economy, which creates good legal grounds for economic relations with other countries, and this government has done so. You can talk, talk about the promoters, everything, whatever comes to mind, about privatisation. I repeat, privatisation will be checked not only today, not only tomorrow, not only in the second term of this government, but also after that, and in five years, and in 10 years, and I am ready to give the same answers then, as these ministers, to give the same answers that they gave you today, and these answers will and will then be credible. Finally, a small reference to urbanism tells stories about urbanism and business space. The business space held by the Serbian Radical Party in Zemun has been decided in court and I will not interfere, only repeatedly in the past month have I refused the offer of the Serbian Radical Party that, if it remains, we will be able to count on these discussions not to be and that the SRS will help the government survive. It's a nice offer only for those who grab a straw; since this government has no reason to hold onto anything that goes through the bar, we won't ask for any help. No need for this government, no need for my party, no need for other DOS parties any support, unless it leads to reforms being possible to continue. I said that and I'll repeat it a few more times -- we don't need support from anyone who isn't in their direction and at their own pace they don't continue. Don't worry about the mere preservation of power, because this government won't fight. You may be surprised by the election call, you will be pleasantly surprised by the election call, but we will definitely not enter any such variants. He's got objections, I heard him throw away, some said the Democratic Party became a socialist party. That's partly true. In fact, we have become an associated member of the Socialist International, and this is a natural process of positioning the party in this world political sky. Why did we get into that? Because this country, which unfortunately will long have the need to have a strong social impact of the state in the life of society, because this party was otherwise at the centre, a small left-wing centre will not bother the Democratic Party to continue its programme. There are a lot of parties in this international community that are ruling in Europe, all over the world, and I don't see anything bad about us being in this society. There are other internationals, for example, there are internationals where parties are conversative, national internationals. There are also some of our parties and some of the following promoters, so let's say DSS, G17 plus, there are other parties in this international, such as HDZ. So much for positioning parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34037	First, the word has the minister of urbanism and construction, the same for the replica, Dragoslav Šumarac, then MP Zoran Angelkovic at the presentation of Minister Milosavljevic, then MP Bojan Pajtic at the presentation of the national message Gordana Pop-Lazic, then Zoran Krasic at the presentation of Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, and we will see further.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34038	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will answer specifically the questions: it is true, there are 45,000 for 5a, or 6a zone in Belgrade, and that's for land editing. Please, in Altina, where you sold the state agricultural land of the PKK to your supporters 50 euros per ar, and then they sold 500 euros to unfortunate refugees and other poor citizens of Zemun, there will be 45,000 for land management, each of these 100 square houses cost at least 40,000 euros. So this is about 400, 500 euros, 0.1% of the value of the facility. No government can offer less than that, and that is why citizens know that and that is why they are applying. As for those who have applied in the old days, the municipalities provide them with information that they can renew that application, but everything they paid for, it all counts for them. This price that Belgrade has calculated here means only a charge to build a highway network, that means from Makish to Altina, so not primary or secondary, but just a magistrate, what all the citizens who were legally building had to pay. So we have to run and this government takes care of everyone, thanks to those cities around Serbia and built, so I mean infrastructure. We can't tell everyone who paid -- we forget you, why you did it (so that's your policy, making chaos, mess), but all citizens of Serbia should be equal. So those who started the legal process under the old law are in the most privileged position, they don't have to pay anything, they don't have to do new project documentation. As for the engagement of some parties, thanks to these parties who have engaged this law we have adopted and citizens should accept what the Democratic Party has shared with them and there are also applications, so they can only fill out the application and surrender in municipalities and that is enough to enter the legalisation process. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, as a lawyer, needs to know that this is the first step, as when someone wants to win the lottery, has to buy a line, and here is the purchase of a line only application and therefore citizens know it well and report it, regardless of your calls and to deter the process of legalization. Also, I must commend these, although not all those I will forget, there is first and foremost Mr Bogdanovic, and you know that Belgrade has adopted the GUP on September 22nd, that they have been made easier and that it is the same for Novi Sad; that is the case for Nis where Mr Ciric is, this is true for the Cup where Milentijevic Dragan is, therefore, all those who support us and they all work in the field. This legalisation process involves engagement, first of all, citizens, who have accepted all of this, then the work of municipalities. You can see that all municipalities in Serbia are now working on Saturdays. I must disappoint you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, that in Grocko since Friday, when we discussed here, 700 citizens have reported to this day for legalization. So, this process will certainly succeed and this government, no matter when there will be elections, whether early or regular, the legalisation process will certainly end up in favour of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34039	The word has the People's MP Zoran Angelkovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34040	Only one sentence about reform, when it comes to the Socialist Party of Serbia, of course, and we are for reforms, just for reforms with a human character, we will not have those reforms under that parole -- the operation has succeeded, the patient has succumbed. So that's not the kind of reform we need. Of course we need reforms, that's not controversial. When it comes to Mr. Milosavljevic, I don't know what the denial was, you said it was bought 3.170, and I said 3,200. So I've increased as much as 30 tons to you, and 46,000 tons is seed wheat and I'm not talking about planting, I'm talking about bread to eat. So there isn't. Seed wheat is sown, and mercantile is eaten, and I'm talking about ransom, you need to make flour. Mr. Zivkovic, you're from the end... It sows, well; but what else did you say, Mr. Milosavlitch? You said that 450,000 tonnes were bought in 2001, and that's three times less than in 1995, when 1,200,000 was bought; and that's okay, it's just planting in 2000, that's what we Socialists created the condition for. This is when we created the conditions to sow so much so that it could be sampled and could be converted, so that we could sell 450,000 tonnes; and look at the saddenity: already in 2002 you bought 259.000 tonnes, as you said, well, 297,000 tonnes, that's again less by one third than in 2001, and now only 3.170 tonnes. No wonder, because the price of flour was five dinars when we were in power, and now it's 20 dinars; it's no wonder, because you just don't have a good relationship with the peasant and he doesn't trust you anymore and he doesn't sow, so we're going to lose the flour, we're going to import flour or wheat, unfortunately, we have to import, we don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34041	The word has the People's MP Bojan Pajtic, the right to reply to the presentation of Gordana Pop-Lazic's national message.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this country was in the 1990s a dark villa very often, so it wasn't just 1999 restrictions, the restrictions were extremely much and in 2000, practically, statistically, every day it was, every third day it was by some restrictions. If I remember correctly, in the mid-90s, even radicals blocked some roads due to the division of restrictive quotas. Don't tell us about 11,000 human fates hanging over our heads. How much fate hangs over your heads? Five thousand members of the family's disability pensions are because people have lost the closest to the wars you have waged, initiated or participated in them; 380,000 refugees have been found in Serbia in 2000. Where you Serbs defend, there is no more Serbs; where are Serbs in Croatia, where are in the Muslim-Croatian Federation, where are Serbs in Kosovo today? We're not talking about your intentions being bad, but you weren't the kind of person to run a national policy, and that's why it's best to raise your hands from politics. Do not tell us about the rooms and whether we can command and manage the court or not. I think we cleared that up when we talked about who's gonna arrest who. We don't arrest anyone, we don't command the courts, the courts are independent, so from now on, I know that every legalization is your side, but you have to get used to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34043	The word has a representative of the promoter, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34044	Mr. Schumarac, I don't understand why you're revising your position on Friday. It is clear to me that Dragoljub Micunovic, he was on the Golom Island for a very short time, so he revised from Stalin to Tito, to the Democratic Party, and you would have to be consistent, so that what you say is at least true. In connection with what the gentleman before me said and put on our souls how we blamed for the number of refugees and how it was a burden for the state and how we led the wars, it would all be slow, to translate those 80 books that Vojislav Seselj gave to the prosecution and the UN tribunal the other day, so he would read the whole world about how we were guilty and what wars we fought. These people who came from these Serbian countries here were welcome to the Zemun municipality, where radicals were in local government. They got at the lowest possible price, 50 dinars per square, in Busia. You mixed them up. There was supposed to be a dump and thank God it's not, everyone's happy and happy that it's not. Only a fool can plan for the dump to be where the high groundwaters are, and the Ugrinovs are known to swim in the waters. That's impossible. So there's 2300 crying. You guys go into Busier's place and find someone who resold the place. They're all people who came from Krajina and Bosnia. What about the Blue Horizon? Seven hundred crying and that's where the poor girl bought for the same money. We brought water into the settlement, and we were out of the streets, only to pave the way, when that year 2000 came, when you won, and when the people didn't know what to do anymore, when you promised him we'd walk the streets in gold. It was a hoax once. We are not afraid of choices, and thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, it is now clear to me that you will not allow a vote in parliament on your trust. It is clear to me that you will delay this debate until the presidential elections and will immediately call the parliamentary elections after the presidential elections. That is absolutely clear, but don't think that because we know that the parliamentary elections are quite certain we will give up the debate. No, we'll tell you everything that's wrong and why this government should fall, so now what happens. However, when you said that I didn't know where a much greater number of requests came from, let me tell you that from Little Wet Lug they almost killed their councilman in the Starship Community because of this good legalization, so there are examples of all sorts. And, I thank you on behalf of the citizens for telling them that they have to buy a line if they want to do legalization, because if they don't buy a line, it can happen that legalization doesn't work. As far as our rooms are concerned, we know very well who conducts the courts and what decisions are made. Executive power. I'm not talking about you personally. I don't know which one of you is running that policy. As for the deal and the possible pressure on you by someone from the Serbian Radical Party, that we will give up this motion to vote for no confidence in the government if you influence the court or give up affecting the court to throw us out of our rooms, so that is simply impossible, Mr. Prime Minister. We would agree here to kill us all, and we would not give up what we have now given ourselves and, thanks to our other colleagues, allow us to discuss you in front of the public. This move is scheduled for November 19th, and the 16th election is and what will be November 17th, where you will all be on November 17th, God knows it. Therefore, no one had the authority to negotiate with you. As a high-ranking party official, I know it's a lie you've made, and it's not nice that you lied about it after this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34045	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, the right to reply to the presentation of Prime Minister Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34046	We need to pick up the replica to stop this attempt to manipulate. Dispute over a magistrate is not a judicial matter. That slow is still going on. How much information I have, and the republican public prosecutor has to raise a claim for the protection of legality, because the Law on Cultural Goods has been roughly violated, but there is also an audit and it should finally be delivered to the Supreme Court in order for the Supreme Court to confirm a legal position of the District Court which has repeatedly returned this case. The case is also interesting because of counterfeits in the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. Someone also signed a decision because of a counterfeiting certificate made by the ZIPS, and the public need to know that this dispute is essentially run by the Democratic Party's legal council, the City Committee in Belgrade, and it should be known that in the Fourth Municipal Court, the judge was one woman who was known for beating court trainees. Of course, the legal basis has changed, everything has changed to get the Serbian Radical Party kicked out before or after the elections and thus to continue with apparent political persecution. The other thing that I answered, and I am simply surprised that the ladies who chair this session did not intervene: that insinuation with the Blue Bridge at the expense of Mrs. Pop-Lazic is inappropriate. For much less insinuation, and it is a real insult, given the mime that was followed by the mention of the Blue Bridge, of course the Presidency had no intention of intervening, or any network, or anyone else, so I would ask you to continue to treat this as an insult to the Rules of Procedure, because it was an insult. Since I already know your answer, let the Administrative Board be clear about it, so that we know how to behave in the future, because we can also mention bridges, cemeteries, barrels, everything and everything. We have no intention, because we want to challenge some things through the fact that this tactics is recognizable, not with the discussion of the facts, but with some incoherent reminder, I suggest to the government and those who support the government, I am simply surprised that you have not yet mentioned the students, the gun, the educational workers, the journalists, give the famous arsenal that has already disgusted the citizens of Serbia, which you repeat in the absence of any other arguments and cruel facts that speak of our reality. Keep going, because obviously your intention is recognizable, you're going to talk about completely irrelevant things, and the government won't account for what she's been doing. It's your fault this debate is stalled, because you want to do it this way, besides buying MPs, taking a mandate...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34047	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34048	I'd like to make something clear. The Blue Bridge is mentioned as an interest in the problem of prostitution. I thought so, and I don't know why you react that way when Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic realized it in an adequate way, which was seen from her earlier appearance. I don't usually think or do anything that might offend anyone. Secondly, to remind you, this is a debate about the government's trust and there is no reason to defend the Serbian Radical Party. Today she's not in the government and she won't be.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34049	The word has a minister of construction and urbanism, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34050	I'm really giving my word that I'm not gonna get back into it with Mrs. Pop-Lazic. I'll answer when we have a statement on the ministry's work, and I hope it's tomorrow. Our people say nicely that everyone scratches where it it itches. So Zemun is certainly proof of urban chaos and proof of short rule (I am certain of short rule) held by the Serbian Radical Party in one part of Serbia and I am sure it will never happen again. Mrs. Pop-Lazic said, therefore, "Busia" was intended for the dump. There's a high level of water and you can imagine now how much it's an expert (and its party) for urban affairs when it says it's no good for the dump, and it's good for the housing, for the evasive and unfortunate of our people. They're swimming basements in the water. That's why the city government, along with the Ministry, is trying to solve the problem. You didn't provide them with water, you didn't provide them with electricity, and then the kids went to school writing past the candles. That's proof of your urbanism.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34051	You have no right to do business. Please, take and read Article 96: "The violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly can only be spoken by the President, or by the representative of the parliamentary group". As far as I know, you don't have an MP group. I'm sorry, you have no right. First in line, MP Nenad Bogdanovic. You've already used it once to expose Minister Schumartz, you can't do it twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34052	Of course, I wouldn't take a word for legalization, although I will take advantage of the opportunity, since I'm in a replica, since Belgrade has been mentioned frequently, and under the circumstances I'm doing this job here. The main reason for the replica is to mention the legal advice of the city board, and about the magistrate and the problems. I would like a single name to be named, and there is no such name and there is no one involved in the legal advice. So that's the question of the territorial community, that's your question, you're going to solve it there, how they do it, how lawyers do it, how courts do it. You had every right to say that. You really don't need to mix up some things that don't have anything to do with it. As far as legalization is concerned, we've heard a lot of things here. The best answer to that is citizens. They don't need to be underestimated. They know their interest very well. There's no one who paid for anything that's related to legalization, that they'll pay again, because citizens know that, because the law allows them not to. It's for every municipality. So there's no one, I'll repeat, that they'll pay anything. I can accept that they can make mistakes somewhere. It means that people can have problems understanding the law, even from some local authorities. No one's gonna pay. Secondly, there's something in this story that's a little bit out of the ordinary, and here's what I'm going to say. In Belgrade, we estimate there are between 100,000 and 150 thousand illegal objects. There's, like, a million in Serbia. When we talk about it, it's part of the house, it's part of the business space, and it's part of a variety of kind of upgrades, small upgrades, so you can have the terrace, where you build up some part of the building, to sort out the house. So there are many cases. We made a decision that was perfectly logical to me, when it comes to housing construction, taking into account the very social problem, one of the behaviors that was extremely representative in the previous period, which is that those who illegally built had to give money beyond the laws of many, at different levels of government, to finish something. You know that. We all know that. Then we have a lot of refugees who were in a position to build where it couldn't be built, because urban plans were catastrophic. You had a situation that, until you got the last GUP, you couldn't build a house anywhere, not even in Athens. Look, Altina, which is a typical example, even that famous Kaludiera that is constantly mentioned, even the Blue Horizons, even Busia, which are a particular problem. You couldn't build a house anywhere, because it wasn't allowed. Of course, what people did -- they did it, and we respect it. We said -- it's okay, you're gonna pay now for just editing the highway infrastructure, you're gonna pay for what people paid for those 800 or 900 thousand objects that were built legally. They paid for everything, both the Master's and the Primary's and the Secondary's... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. In conclusion, the citizens understood that and the citizens would do it. The one who built 500, 600, 700 square meters, and he doesn't need a lot of money for anything, we can understand it, but it's a minority in this town, so we're totally relaxed. You'll see, this will be a very successful legalization. I'm sorry it's annoying.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34053	The right to a replica, MP Zoran Krasic, to present Minister Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34054	There are some facts here, some data, with an apparent intention to marginalise the debate on the confidence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We heard some data that could be partially accepted when it comes to the previous law on building objects, which had some of its shortcomings, but a lot of major shortcomings had a law that continued on that, or that preceded that law, which is the law on planning. Mr. Schumarac put it together on some new groundwork, a new law. That law is inadmissible. You know very well that this law is inadmissible. I know exactly what locations you have problems at and where you grab your head and say what we've come up with and what kind of law we've passed. What space-plan document was made under this new law? None. Who got the license? If there's something lagging behind, so you're still using that provision of that law that could be a temporary construction of a facility, which you promised there wasn't, so you promised the citizens that 30 documents of service would provide them with, where that is, who got the license that way. Nobody. Don't, please, distract the citizens with some story. You're in for legalization. Why? When you came to power, you started to tear down, millions of illegally erected objects, and in Zemun you started and said that's what the radicals got. After the second wave of collapse, when the municipality made 110% of its success in one month, you found that you destroyed the facilities of members of the Democratic Party, so you stopped with the demolition. What are you talking about? You're looking to pick up this little money now, the construction's stopped, and you don't want this country to build and develop. Answer who builds the house of Santa, by the White Court, and across the street you have destroyed the house; how now? There's no license across the street, and there's a license on this side. They know very well who makes it. Stop those manipulations. As far as the court dispute is concerned, your Gavrilovic from Ivančević's office leads, and there's Djordje Nedeljkovic, there's your courts, don't forget, and your courts are included, I won't tell you about the indifference that the member has been applied for and why it is applied. The district court for the first time warned the municipal court that it could not be ruled that way. He reiterated the verdict, and then three women in the District Court with two last names finished the job. Take care of what you do. Stop this manipulation. You've run down the democratic standards. Please, yesterday at the DOS RIK, it raises the question of whether members of the DOS election committee can hold a list of safe voters. How do they know who's gonna vote for sure? Use the stamp and memo DOS - Vojislav Kostunica. Please, what are you guys talking about, you're out of space and out of time. Give us that election, and let's hear what the results are going to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34055	I'm warning you, you're out of time. The word is issued by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34056	Dear citizens, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, listening these days to a debate on the confidence of the Serbian Government, I was under the impression that I was in the parliament of Sweden or Switzerland, or that we were all living in Sweden or Switzerland, according to reports from our ministers, and everything was nice, good, great and wonderful. Maybe they're better off, maybe they're doing well, but Serbian citizens, in any case, are not doing well. To be clear, the opposition did not ask the ministers to submit reports, you should have submitted the reports much earlier, both in this parliament and the citizens of Serbia. It is not appropriate for the outgoing government to submit reports, but rather for the government leaving the political scene of Serbia to file accounts. The bills are submitted in the election. We saw this a few days ago in some local elections, let's say in Turkey where the representatives of the same government, or the Democratic Party, were only third. The first was the SPS, the second was the SSJ, and they were only the third, and their representative for the assembly president did not even enter the second round, but was entered by a representative of the SPS and the SSJ. According to one minister, whose exposure I can truly assess as very scandalous, there are only 10% of the poor in Serbia. This percentage would satisfy a much richer Western country, even the United States. Ten percent of the poor in the country - there really should be courage, but I would say the inability to say such a thing, that such a thing is claimed for this speaker. The same minister said the salary rose from October 5th to today seven times. It's just mathematically not true. That is not true, because the average salary should be in that case 280 euros, and it is only 180 euros. The 180 euros that make money in Serbia is very happy, the one who receives it is very happy. So the truth is a little different and the reality is very different from what the ministers are saying here, headed by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. When it's so good, when it's so great and great how you claim in your reports, which we didn't ask you for, because they came very late, which is why you didn't explain it to the workers who were looking for their union rights, and they're also proposing some other political requirements, because they're forced to, because they realize that all their incompetences stem from the incompetence of this government. Why didn't you go out a few days ago to tell them how good it was for them, but since you blacked them out in your statements, because you completely marginalized them in your media and because you talked really ugly about them, like they came here to get drunk on the vines, so when the vine disappears, they go home. Which is why you didn't listen to those union organizations of those companies that brought you to power, say "Colubare." These people sent to all MPs a very difficult letter reminding you that they brought you into power, that they were the generator on October 5th, but today they live very badly and exceed their production plan. They claim in this letter this - production with outdated equipment and tools, and that the truth is the worst illustration of the fact that in 13 months, six workers have lost their lives in these areas. We expect the MPs of the Serbian Parliament and the government of the Republic of Serbia to finally appoint a Minister of Mining and Energy to have representatives of the Kolubara union with whom to negotiate, if anything, at least ask for his shift. We're not sure that we're going to be able to control the accumulated anger, anger and dissatisfaction of the workers, who are asking the union for concrete agreements on labour prices, half-hour breaks and the social programme. You didn't answer that either. So, I can't agree with the statements of respected ministers, because reality really disproves you. I would especially like to stress once again that Mr Djelic's statement is indeed scandalous and, at least because of that statement, he should resign. When you came to power on October 5th, all Serbian citizens expected that you would fulfill at least part of the promises you promised them in the 2000 election campaign. Unfortunately, you didn't do it. Let's remember the famous contract with Serbia. Of the 10 points signed by all your candidates, you have fulfilled only one point, which is that Serbia will no longer be in isolation. We returned all donations, although we were founders, and that's the only positive thing you've done, but the big question is what in concrete terms Serbian citizens have from that return to the international community, which hasn't helped us as much as you say these days after this speaker. You didn't keep all the other promises. Let's remember what you said about Kosovo and Metohija. You said that when you came, Resolution 1244 would be applied. There is nothing to apply, but the scarier it is that you only speak for marketing purposes for the application of that Resolution 1244. I'll illustrate it to you next time. None of you, gentlemen of the ministers, except the vice-president of Mr. Covic's government, whose task is that because he is president of the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre, was not in Kosovo and Metohija, except in one very unpleasant and difficult situation, Prime Minister Zivkovic. None of you have even asked permission to leave. To remind you that the prime minister of Albania has been on an official visit to Pristina 12 times, and this shows Albania's relationship with Cosmet, but our foreign minister (although it is not his task, but is the minister and is from Kosovo and Metohija) never once asked to go to Kosovo and Metohija and never visited those people to encourage them to survive or encourage people who have escaped from Kosovo and Metohija to return to Kosovo and Metohija. But this shows the relationship between the official Serbia, the government and Serbia to our people in Cosmet who stayed there and those who escaped from Kosovo and Metohija. So no Deputy Prime Minister has asked UNMIK to visit Cosmet. You never asked for at least one cabinet session to be held in Pristina, and you know well that according to Resolution 1244, Kosovo and Metohija are part of the SRJ, and today the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. So that's one promise you haven't fulfilled, but that's why you invited Serbs to the elections in Kosovo and Metohija. What happened after that election? What is the weight of our Serb MPs in Kosovo and Metohija? What is the weight of the Return Coalition in Kosovo and Metohija in the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly? Nothing. I don't think they have any more rights than regular assistant workers in the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly. This was seen several times when they abandoned the opportunity of the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly. By calling for elections, by going to the elections, you have legalized these institutions of an independent state of Kosovo and Metohija. You have legalized both the Assembly and so on. Government and so-called President of Kosovo and Metohija. You gave them legality, legitimacy, going to the polls. Not to mention refugees from Kosovo and Metohija and their status in Serbia. They live here as second and third-class citizens. How many have returned? You say 2%. I doubt that. I think it's much less, but make it 2%. In how many years? Within four years of UNMIK's arrival and three years and more of your authority, you have done nothing to improve their status in Serbia. You were delighted with Mr. Harry Holkeri's arrival. You said he would lead a different policy than the predecessors in Kosovo and Metohija and it proved not true. At those negotiations in Vienna where you participated, your negotiator, on the other hand, Ibrahim Rugova kept mentioning independent Kosovo and saying that you are the neighbouring state with which they negotiate. Not once did Harry Holkeri warn him, no one from the international community answered later on. I told you at consultations that it was not the talks but the negotiations, because the talks and dialogues are being held in their country, in Belgrade or in Pristina, and in the neutral country there are negotiations between two delegations, two sides, two states. That's what happened to you, and that's what you asked for. You now want to fulfill one of the promises you made to the citizens of Serbia, which is a change in the Constitution. After three years, you decided to bring the constitution, but what a constitution. A constitution that continues to tear Serbia apart. With this constitution, you want Serbia to be composed of six autonomous provinces. It is the conclusion of the constitutional subcommittee led by Nenad Canak, whose programme says that Vojvodina should be a republic. You're still tearing Serbia apart. You do not want Serbia to be the state of the Serbian people and all the members of the national minorities who live with us. You don't want it, you want Serbia to be the state of Serbia again. We of the Soviet Union want this constitution to define Serbia as a state of the Serbian people and of all citizens, regardless of which religion and nation they belong. There's nothing to be ashamed of. If you have anything to be ashamed of, say it, but we have nothing to be ashamed of. We are in Serbia and we want to be Serbs, as we do not challenge the Hungarians, Albanians, Bosniaks, or Muslims.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34057	Do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34058	No, I'm done. This is why we left the commission, because we do not want to participate in Serbia's further break-up and further define Serbia as a citizen state, not the states of the Serb people and all the national minorities living in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34059	Prime Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Gašo Knezevic spoke, and Minister Stojan Jevtic answered. The word is Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34060	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't feel like I'm here for the first time or who knows which time I've filed a report. First, since the start of this government under the leadership of Mr Djindjic, I have submitted a report each year and each year the report has been adopted by the Education Committee. So, we didn't do any illegal or illegal work and jobs in education, we even tried, I mean, and we managed to do it completely transparently. Anyway, I'll try to draw your attention in the next period by taking care of what and how it's done. If I tried to define education, to compare it with other categories that are close to us, probably the closest comparison would be with inheritance. Education is the transfer of civilization and cultural heritage to younger generations, just as heritage is the transfer of rights, i.e. plus and minus each individual to their own heirs. Since young generations can understand and learn something without us, but they need much more time and effort, the state is trying to participate in the organization of education. This creates a public service, a public job, an educational job that, by being a public job, causes a tremendous amount of controversy, causes attacks and defenses, even emotions. This state, as one of the resistors, also has a portfolio of education, i.e. education, which is always here, when I was on the other side of the pay phone, caused emotions, attacks and defenses. I've been out here four times in the past two and a half or three years, and we've always managed to get the job done. You managed to finish the job because you passed the law. The last, this reformist, with a two-thirds majority. That is why I owe you my gratitude, for having heard of the government's proposals, and the government's proposals respected certain progress, a desire for the country's progress. I hope, as we've worked together successfully these three years, which I thank you for, that we'll do it in the future. Of course there are misunderstandings, of course there are emotions of different nature. Today we have a visit to a club called Real Madrid. On his forehead for the longest time was a person named Santiago Bernab. A stadium in Madrid bears his name. When Mr. Santiago Bernab was asked how he co-operated with the Spanish public, he replied, "Great. When I started building a stadium, everyone asked me why I was building it on the periphery. When I finished it, everyone asked me why I built it in the center." So much for human understanding. So whoever's doing this is causing other people's reactions, and that's perfectly normal. Are you going to reduce the importance of a wonderful object, like that stadium, the answer is - no, they're now world champions. I hope "Partizan" beats them tomorrow, but that's all at the level of hope and our expectations. When we think about this education, that is, that education, we usually use one name in a persuasive sense, which is the name Stipe Shuvara. His famous reform of education, according to the courts of many of us, has led to tearing, depravity, loss of direction as far as education is concerned. No one mentions another reform that is silent, but it was carried out on two occasions - in 1991 and 1995, which is a reform under someone else's leadership, but I won't mention this name either. What have we done in this reform? He gave up the law on educational inspection and the law on educational and pedagogical service, and one of the two services was made. The law on continuous professional training has ceased, and the continued professional training of teachers has ceased. The whole system's been centralized. The school network was built by 1994, new, without any consultation with local authorities. What do you think I'm doing right now reorganizing the schooling at the Wizard and I'm not asking local authorities what school they need and which ones they don't need. It was done in 1994. A huge system was created, a huge centralized system, an educational council was abolished, pedagogical institutions were abolished. So everything's been lifted that exists between the school and the ministry. The Ministry has left it with the intention of being a brain, and schools of hands and legs. Between that and nothing. The system, like a bridge without a middle lever, collapsed into the water. The whole system objected to it, but the question is, why didn't the state hit much? Not much was struck by the fact that there was a withdrawal of money from education during that period. I'm talking about the '90s, from 1990 to 2000, about those years. The social gross product decreased 44.5% between 1990 and 1999. At the same time, schooling per student has been reduced by 52%, and by an average of 57.2%, which shows that education care has decreased and that children, per student head, have been getting less and less money. That's why the state didn't care how big her system was, whether he was small or big. It was important to save in it. It was an imperative of time. How and why the money was used, it's a completely different question, and I'm not getting into it. I mean, it's possible they were used for positive purposes. I don't know, I don't care. My concern is education and her poverty. That's what I'm talking about. So, the GDP was falling, and so was education. At the same time, with the structure of education funded, there have been fantastic changes. In 1989, local sources funded education at 84%. So, out of the local register, education was funded 84%, and the rest were budgets, other sources, economics, non-economics and the population. Then in 1999, the budget had 75% of the funding, and everyone else had 25%. So the state put itself in a financial position and began to control it. How? By reducing from year to year what was given to enlightenment. It's a story about funding education. Of course I'm not going to tell you about the position of educators, of course I'm not going to tell you about a relatively sad status that they had in 2000. The fact is, the system itself rebelled against its own collapse, rebelled in that way and strike. You know it's a period of frequent strikes in education and one habit, both educators, so unfortunately children, that the class lasts 30 minutes. It was their daily routine, and so it was until 2000. Every ministry's mission is triple. Its task is to propose laws passed by the congregation, to try to apply those laws in life, and to supervise the application of these laws. When it comes to legislation, this ministry has been here four times, and I've already said that. We've done all four jobs. Now the plan is to pass a law on higher education, where the alignment has gone very far. If there were normal circumstances, I could guarantee you a period of law-making, but they're not. Therefore, every promise I make becomes illusory. Then, the law on textbooks, whose work is in preparation and preschool law. This is what our priorities and plans are at the moment, and what is not finalised with the current text. To get to this law, the last one adopted this year, a lot of people were hired. 222 people participated in the education strategy and 315 people participated in the first-class school programme. So it's a very wide circle of people of all professions and all profiles, on purpose, because education requires consensus. Consensus is achieved in one society only by broad engagement and by including in the decision-making process of different profiles. We tried to do it, and that's why these numbers stand. In doing so, I will tell you that 25,460 people participated in the consultations, not in the decision-making process but in the consultations, in the three major actions that preceded the development of an education strategy. Every change in society requires three resources, three tanks. The first is a time tank. It exists, that is, its question arises because people are, as a rule, impatient and looking for changes before they are mature, because they want, by nature, things to live better. With this resource, it seems to me, the Ministry of Education has no problem, because it's just too fast to go. So it's not a matter of slow going, it's a matter of going fast. So I'm not talking about time resources at all. I think we've got enough. People remain, like a big problem, and money. First of all, as far as money goes, an old educator, in the beginning, three years ago, when I was visiting Leskovac, he asked me, how much money do you have? I didn't know about the reforms at the time. He warned me that if there was no money, we weren't even trying to change, and I get it. Ninety percent of our education budget goes to pay, and that's this country's tragedy. It means that only 10% of the budget money can be put into the development of education. In other countries, there are much happier proportions, but we have never implemented this reform at the expense of wages. Therefore, the salaries of educational workers were "protected animals" from each procedure, from each taking and directing to the development of education, but we had 34 donors, including UNESCO, UNICEF, UNDP, World Bank, European Union, through Karts and Tempus, the Council of Europe and many bilateral donors. Of them, so far, has been used on education of 20m euros. So we got 20m euros from foreigners, mostly in the form of donations and one part in the form of a loan, which is the participation of the World Bank. So, without the participation of budget couples in the development of education. With 40 countries, we have concluded co-operation agreements in the field of education, and with 20 countries, it is the same as the trizacon, the adoption, the conclusion of the contract. At the same time, at the local level, therefore, outside the control of my ministry, you have mayors here, ask, we have had great donations, first of all of the European Union, for the reconstruction of schools. It's that "Democracy School" action, and in that action, according to the data we have in education, 15m euros have been spent. So that's the amount Europe has allocated to repair the facilities of our school system. The conclusion is: both data show that Europe has not failed us. Europe took part in repairing our education system. Secondly, one minister of earlier authorities, between 1990 and 2000, once said, addressing the judiciary -- judges, they are not my problem, I will bring in trucks and buses of a new judge. That luxury I can't afford to say. Educational workers are 85,000 in class, only in class, I speak from teachers and beyond. We in this country, and no other country has an 85,000 resources that could replace existing personnel, existing employees. As a result, our goal and our intentions were never pointed in that direction, our intention was to try to perfect the existing frame. That's what I want to illustrate some data. These data are as follows: 50,500 teachers have completed training up to 48 hours, of 85,000. That's one half of the number. The entire 420 elementary schools have passed education. If you know that there are 1,500 - 1,600 primary schools in Serbia, then you realize that already a third of the total staff of individual schools has passed education; 8,400 teachers, i.e. teachers and first class teachers, have passed education; courses for school board members, funded by the World Bank, are just beginning; 320 accredited training programmes have been made, published a catalogue. For the first time, you have a catalog for teacher education, and don't forget, a law was passed in 1995 that abolished the obligation of teacher education. You have abolished the obligation of those who learn further, that they themselves may learn. Not you, not this Parliament, but someone in history, under very strange circumstances and not knowing, I can't imagine exactly what the goal of such a measure was. I hope, frankly, there's some rationalism in that. In the end, we had another course, which was very well received, it was a childcare officer course, covering about 200 schools, more specifically, 179 schools. So, in 179 schools, there's a police officer who's guarding the school system. It's about the conditions and the legislation. What about implementation? All the institutions provided for by law have been established. So, those three centers, but I don't want to talk about it, it's the legal obligation of this ministry. The investment of education between 1990 and 2000 was (I will speak in euros, for comparative purposes) two and a half million euros a year for a period of 10 years; in 2001 we doubled - 5,487,372 euros; in 2002 - 5,434; this year it is forecasted to be 11,585,702, for now seven million investments. So we have already funded works in that amount. My lords, it is at least 100% compared to the previous state, at least, and this last period is 130 or 125%. At the same time, the student standard is fixed. First of all, new student posts have been opened. Besides, the savings were made in the system. I will tell you that earlier years, between 1990 and 2000, this country's student standard cost between 50m and 60m euros. Since 2000, it has cost about 20m euros annually. The students didn't drop the standard. There's been an increase in savings. We've tightened the system and started saving in the system. It means that suppliers behave rationally, that we've prevented all possible thefts, that we've prevented those students from sleeping in their homes, so-called. The paratroopers or whatever they're called, and we tightened the system. It is therefore possible to achieve the same effects with lower isolation. Please, we've raised the scholarship number by 2,500. So 2,500 scholarship students have more in this period than before. Debts - Kragujevac Mayor spent hours with me at a meeting with the company "Kazimir Veljković"; here is a short story about the company "Kazimir Veljković". "Kazimir Veljković" is a construction firm, engaged in the construction of the Second Kragujevnica High School. The construction of the gymnasium on the basis of an oral agreement, without the country's political structures; the high school, right in 1995, was built and released in 2000, while the contractor remained in debt of 30 to 40 million. So it's undeniable, Kazimir Veljkovic built this facility that looks fantastic, go to Kragujevac, look and it's undeniable that he didn't get the money for it. He had no one to turn to, because there was no contract, there was nothing -- a spell was being created in heaven or on earth, and why -- because of some political needs, but of course it met both the needs of education and thank you for it. When they started suing their subcontractors, they grabbed their heads and then we managed to pay off the debt on the basis of court settlement and save the company "Kazimir Veljkovic" from bankruptcy. The amount of money paid back then was 40 million dinars and that's not little for an education budget. Total debts, when we came in, investment, were 258 million, there were five million investment debts left. So, for 253 million we paid other people's bills, someone else was ordering, and we were paying. Is that small? By my judgment, no. By my estimate, we were correctly subsecers of the previous government, we didn't say anything - we don't owe it. All that was done before, we agreed to pay. That, gentlemen, is a picture of the investment policy and of the country's debts. Please, all this goes to one conclusion: it's not the law most what the Ministry has done, something else is the most - we have succeeded in rocking the reputation of education to return. Here's proof of that, too. In Belgrade, at a school of 48 jobs for new teachers, 537 candidates appear, gentlemen. And if that were the negative selection that was earlier, it wouldn't be these numbers, it would be possible for as many candidates as there are jobs. One job in Novi Sad, and that, gentlemen of mathematics, is therefore a very sought after occupation, 36 candidates, 36 applications to be employed as a mathematician at a school. Is that small? No, it's a reflection of the new position of education and she has it in this society. Of course, that's what you're responsible for as part of this country's political establishment system. Unions - I have three representative unions in education: independent, independent and union. I don't want to talk about them, I'm just gonna tell you that there's never been a strike in three years, except for one of four days. After those great strikes, it's now a calming ground and it's normal. We are on the verge of the conclusion of a collective contract; the collective agreement will provide for a procedure for firing a technological surplus, so that the directors will not have all the power in collectives. That, gentlemen, is the product of our constant and patient conversation with the unions. Ask them what they think of social dialogue in education and what they answer, I sign. So ask them, I won't testify about the state of social dialogue in education, let them talk about it. Entries - a completely chaotic state before 2000; in 2000 a sudden change in registration regimes, centralization. The only thing we've seriously centralized is the admission policy, and why? To keep records of enrolment in one place, so that children don't sign up for their grandmotherly, godfatherly, friendly relationships. We centralized the records and we had in the first year of 72,000 students of 129 dissatisfactions, mostly in Cačka, and we had those eggs that hit Mr. Djelic at the pre-election campaign in Cačka. That egg was meant for me, I wasn't there, because I was never a member of G17 plus, so it hit him, and that egg was dissatisfaction, compare 72,000 to 129, and you'll see how dissatisfaction was in Serbia. This year, no one, zero dissatisfied. Please, centralization and discipline have led everyone to understand what a new entry is and no longer unsatisfactory, which is, I mean, the success of introducing order into the system, is, that's it. Roma - positive discrimination has been introduced. Look, no one in the world has successfully, unfortunately, solved the problem of Roma education. Roma as a social group are opposed to any molding, they are, they are genetic; we are trying to help them, we are trying to raise the level of Roma education, because the degree of education is exactly the opposite of poverty. The more educated you are, the less poor you are, but some other ministers will talk about it. We introduced positive discrimination, and all the Roma who wanted to enroll in high school we entered past the quota, all the Roma who wanted to enroll the university we entered past the quota. The Roma textbooks are shared by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Human Rights and the national minority at community level. The training policy has changed, therefore, there is no segment that has not been changed. One MP met me the other day, I'm not going to say whose mayor he is, because he's an opposition city, so I don't want his reputation in his own party to be diminished, he told me -- you know, Minister, I'm the mayor, and when they ask me how my city is, I say, everything's good, some things by themselves, by nature things, I drop out, and I know that the opposition in my city is right when he says something. I also think, I brought you things the way I see it, I know it's not all done, don't convince me of something that's obvious in itself. Anyone who works, of course, is wrong, and of course every one of us doesn't have the capacity, has no structure, there's no institution to bring all things to an ideal or state that would be tolerated, looking at the general aspect, therefore, from the whole state. Let's say, I'll tell you right away, our problem continued from 1992 and 1993; in 1992 and 1993 was the problem of appointmenting directors and now the problem of appointmenting directors. Local authorities and collectives take this job too politically, I just don't have the tools to fully implement interference, yes, that's the problem of the Ministry of Education, okay, with that being to live, my gentlemen, with that being to function and work, and if that's why we're going to fail, I don't believe we will. The school network is a serious problem that any future government will have to deal with, because the relationship between students and teachers is now tragic. We have very few students on one teacher, and that's why we're going to have to deal with the school network. I resent breaking traditions, and Mrs. Pop-Lazic rested herself in her opening performance of two, as far as I could hear, more serious things. One is sharing the material of a sect whose member I am and the Bucharest for the first grade of primary school. I'm going to try to answer those charges now. As far as tradition goes, I think education by definition is a general thing. It can't be Serbian, it can't only be learned by Wolf and Tesla, although of course it has to be because it's part of the heritage, and I said it's a matter of heritage education, but it has to be taught by Shakespeare, Newton and Aristotle. There is no national education. There's only general education, because if we raise our children nationally, they won't even know "Magbet", "Ottela," or anything else that's written. So, it was never my goal to operate on Serbian education from Wolf or Nikola Tesla or anyone else, but the goal was to serve everything to children, so according to what they remember best and what each of them later choose their profession in life. This fantastic education, I have obtained data from Australia, where they are yet to be processed, so they are not finished, but the data are the following: testing our children compared to testing other children in the world, so European and other world countries, solving math tasks less than one quarter of our children, natural sciences less than one quarter of our children, 56% of our children, problems 38% of our children cannot solve them at all, but solving more than three-quarters of our children, therefore, it is considered a successful solution to the tasks set, the mathematics of 3% of our children, the natural sciences 1% of our children and problems zero of our children. These are the data we now have, and that we have carried out one pilot evaluation through international factors and that is tragic, my lords. We want to change that, and trust me, it's my job. I understand my mission not to be zero here but to be five, not to be one here, but to be seven and here to be ten where there are now three. Then it's thought that education goes the way up. The Bucharest -- it's true that the Wolf in the picture in the barrel has a somewhat longer language, and it's true that Saint Sava is winking at the bee he's holding on his finger. There was this show on TV where they asked four people what they thought about it. The answer was 2:2 divided answer. Two were opponents, and two were advocates. It's a sign to you that every art, even graphic, causes different reactions of people. Someone likes it, someone doesn't like it. Mrs. Petria, whose story "Petrija's Wreath" was made after the great success of the book written by Mr. Mihajlovic, even tried to sue him by believing that he had stolen something from her. He didn't steal anything, because he heard the story, but only Dragoslav Mihajlovic told it that way. So, every art has been released to people for understanding or misunderstanding. My lords, this barrel has been approved by an extended review committee and a very good commission. I didn't mind that, and I signed it, because I sign all the textbooks. Of course I don't think you think I watch all the textbooks. That would be too much. Finally, sects. I know there's a magazine called "Twilight Zone." I realized when my kid brought him into my house, because he saw me on the front page. Sadly, such magazines too form the country’s opinion. The magazine said two months ago that I was a member of the Bildeberg group, consisting of Angels, Jospen, Ahtisaari and many others, and that in 2001 in Canada I was instructed to brainwash Serbian children. There is something, and Mrs. Pop-Lazic will understand it well, which is called proof in court proceedings. Each verdict is based on a factual state. If that is well established, then there is a chance that the verdict will be true. If the factual situation is not well established, there is no good application of the right to a poor factual condition. My passport proves that I never flew across the Atlantic, and that's the story of Brandemburg. Of course, since I know this isn't about Brandemburg, it's about some cult, I remind you and please, ma'am, to give me the name of the school and the face, I'm going to go get all the information where I've been and what I've shared. I want to go out in front of this congregation and show them whose member I am and what I shared. Ma'am, this is my request to you as a serious person. (Goldana Pop-Lazic): You will be pleased. Thank you. I think I've made contact with the person responsible and I'm going to get a satisfactory answer from her. There's one more thing I want to tell you, I'm not taking it out and I'm not just saying it. A member of the cult, if I am a member of the sect, is the person who gave the order to adopt a regulation to introduce a religious one. Veronauk was introduced for seven religions. Each of them, according to the Ministry of Religion, the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Catholic and all other churches, is far from the cult level. Whoever does this usually isn't a cult. That's what I have to tell you. I think the Serbian Orthodox Church has put pressure on her to return to class. I don't think the red-and-black coalition has met, she hasn't even started to think about that request. The DOS government has adopted that request and we are now at the level of reflection on the Faculty of Education. If the universities decide, because we are trying to democratically implement it, we will make a decision that will abolish the decision that has been ruled out by the Faculty of Education. It will not be decided by the Serbian government, it will be decided by universities based on free questions and answers. I'd like you to understand that I'm the worst critic to myself and that all of what I've said is mostly positive elements of the ministry's work. I can also tell you, I find some things that didn't work out 100 percent, or they went below 50%. However, I want to tell you that the Ministry of Education always has only one interest, and that has proved it. It's the interest of education and the interest of generations to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34061	The People's Messenger, Sredojo Mihajl, answers the word. On what grounds? National MP, mentioning G17 and eggs is not enough reason for replication. You do not have the right to reply, because giving you a replica to every mention of the party would mean that you have more rights than other MPs members of the parties. With an extra right to the replica, the People's MP is Sredoje Mihajlov, then Minister Angelka Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34062	Mr. Minister mentioned that he did not get that egg mentioned, that the egg was directed to the party G17 plus. I think Mr. Secretary is going to get a lot more eggs if he shows up now and the egg he's referring to is known to who and what company you're in, so there's a time for you to take off and some egg. Now I would like to, since I have had the opportunity to replicate to Mr. President, because he said that the Democratic Party has become a member of the Social Democratic International and that some other parties have become others. All I can tell you is, now you can see, now you know who likes who and where who comes near.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34063	Right to the replica, on behalf of the promoter, National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34064	Today, according to the promoter, is not on the agenda, Gašo Knezevic. We'll talk about him when we want to. Now I'm going to use straight to the replica. Today some other ministers are on the agenda, but in the afternoon part of the session. If you present some of your reports, the public will judge whether they are satisfied with those reports or not. We don't pay any more attention to them. I'd just like to say something about taxpayers, and about the budget, to compare it with what it was in 2000, 35 billion; in 2001, already, when you designed the budget, 107, and in 2002, 171 billion. How much does it cost the citizens of Serbia, and among other things, the Ministry of Education, only for special services, which are special services, which are not told by the minister here, will probably explain later: so 142 million for primary education, again some special services 49 million, student standard 4.480,000 and higher education 16.356,000, student standard 51,350,000, physical culture 76,300,000. That, about that school, the high school in Kragujevac, that you're promoting us here, like you didn't know what you did, and plus those donations you got, you put some computer into schools, you put a little color on it. That's what was like something advanced, and everything else is a degradation and something that will only come in the future of this generation and this Serbian people to cost, and that's this reform you're reforming, which I won't call "shuvarica," because it was a little bit of what you're making right now. The strike is gone, because it's been threatened by educators to get fired. What you've offered them is a 3% salary increase, it's such a degradation that they feel so humiliated, it's more illusory that they talk to you as a social partner. You said something about a Serbian education, and I don't know what that coin means. You've put some people's minds on the fact that so far, education hasn't given the students enough knowledge of Shakespeare, Aristotle, Newton, Plato, so I don't know how we all heard about it. That's why you threw out the mockery of Vuk Karadzic and you did cast out the mockery of St. Sava and you did throw out the "Gorean Wreath," because you say -- it's very difficult for our students, they can't understand, it's a philosophical act, what Negos meant. Besides, he's flaunting religious and national hatred... (Chairman: three minutes.) )......................................................................................................... 'Cause he's talking, please, about the extermination of the divers. That's what you contributed to this education. We put a lot on your mind when we talked about the Law on Fundamental Education, and that you're a member of the sect, you know that very well. It's not your fault that we put those seven traditional churches into the law, so that only the members of those churches could have religious teaching; it was the amendment of the SRS, when we gave you an explanation you were forced to accept it. Otherwise, who knows what would happen in schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34065	The word is made by the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Angelka Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34066	Dear Madam Vice President, honourable MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister and fellow ministers, I, as the first minister to pass before he was confirmed as minister in the interview, in my committee of directors, about everything I know, and I own, and I think I own, I want to work and work, I really live in the belief that I have fully justified the trust that I have as a part of the team of citizens. In 2000. Serbia has been behind developed countries for 20 to 40 years in the environmental protection system. I want to be clear, the concept of pollution control by individual environmental factors since Serbia in 2000 is so lagging behind in the environmental protection system for developed countries. There was no authority to establish controls, there was no information and there was no public in the work, there were no laws or regulations relating to the implementation, above all, of international contracts. I want to remind you that in the past decades, this country has signed and ratified more than 50 international contracts that have not been known to be, when and to which they should be implemented. So in 2000, Serbia was in a position to, say, sign the Convention to prevent air pollution at a high distance, and the industry was at the level that it was just speeding up and there were no instruments in national legislation to apply it. In 2000, we had total discrepancies with the laws of the European Union and the uncontrolled use of natural resources. Next, we found a series of ecological black spots for two reasons. The first reason is the consequences of the bombing and more than 100 industrial facilities that suffered the consequences of the bombing, with four black spots: Novi Sad, Panchevo, Bor and Kragujevac. Other ecological black spots are the result of industrial development, with disrespect for environmental regulations. In 2000. Serbia did not have any response units in the event of chemical accidents. The spatial plan of Serbia adopted had no location intended for a municipal waste dump, no warehouse, no waste dump, and we had to enter the process because of Serbian citizens. I'm going to do something that's been seen in this sector, and it's really a lack of professional personnel to carry this development on modern knowledge, which in this area really changes to six months. As a man who has both scientific calling and teaching, universityly, I have a great international practice and practice on the ground, I really think we've found a situation where people have out-of-date knowledge about understanding the environment. What I want to point out for the citizens -- there was no partner relationship with citizens and NGOs. So in 2001, in this sector, and I'm practically talking about 500 days of work by the Environmental Protection Administration and 500 days of work by the Ministry of the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment, when we found this situation, we realized that there was no report on the state of the environment in Serbia, to see the steps and objectives. I am honored that Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, with his intellect, pulled me out to pledge with my energy and knowledge that this area would become part of Serbia's reform activities. In 2001, too, we identified the state of the environment, which was a priority, we identified the country's indicative priorities, we set up a system for environmental protection as a condition for solving many of the problems encountered, we applied the monitoring of the first steps of environmental reforms. I point out in this area step by step. We are now building the foundation of the house of our future and as good as this house is in the system concept set up, so is our future. The future without an ecological leg, in its sustainable development, is not acceptable, is not a sustainable future. And what we are working on is really approaching the ecological standards of developed countries through patience, work, expertise, the public and the constant warning that each of us must be a partner in implementing the environmental policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Given certain circumstances that were a little slower than we invested, so a team at the Ministry who was founded to stand behind each minister is a successful team of people, we were at the moment when the environmental protection system law had not yet begun to intensify significant international co-operation, providing financial assistance. I would highlight a very important activity here, which is my initiative as minister, which has now received very high international support, which is the ecological cohesion of the Balkan countries in the process of joining the European Union. So, ecological cohesion. We've done a national waste management strategy, we've created a modern waste management legal framework, and we have positive demonstrations to address the waste issue. So, from January 2001 to May 2002, the first five hundred days established the state of the environment, a detailed report was drawn up for 2000, for the first time after eight years, established frameworks and priorities for 2001 and the following year. I would point out, repeat again what priorities are: building an institutional and legal framework for Serbia around the standards of developed countries in this area, reacting in the case of an ecological black spot, waste, waste water, biodiversity and nature protection and environmental education, which has entered as a priority to the initiative of the MPs sitting here. We have established equal co-operation with the international community, we have set up a system of public participation in decision-making, and I would remind you that in drawing up a draft on the environmental protection system we had a broad discussion and we have visited cities: Čačak, Užice, Šabac, Valjevo, Pirot, Nis, Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, Sombor, Subotica, Sremska Mitrovica, close to 40 cities. The citizens themselves took part in the creation of a concept that is tailored to the citizens of Serbia, and brings us closer to the European Union, and as a minister, I have had the honour of presenting this concept as a reform concept at a ministerial meeting that spoke of a positive way of involving citizens in the process of making important decisions at the state level. So, through the draft and draft laws on the environmental protection system, we have set up a system for environmental protection in line with the European Union's standards, and Serbia's citizens, respectively. It's the only way we've arranged all the environmental factors. We have organized the first eco-toxicological mobile response unit in case of chemical accidents, we are strengthening co-operation with NGOs, local self-government, MPs, we have one openness in the work; everything this ministry, or management has done has been through the discussion on the home environmental committee. We didn't always agree, we had different opinions, but constructive, and I think it all improved the work of this ministry and the work of this sector within the framework of teamwork in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the second phase, the second five hundred days, i.e. the first five hundred days of the real ministry for the protection of natural resources and environments founded on 23 May 2002, the environment is highlighted as a priority in supporting economic reforms, privatisation and infrastructure projects in the process of approaching the EU. This was in the phase of the preparation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, and such a definition of our country has helped us to gain significant financial and other support from the international community for this sector. In this concept, for the first time in the Ministry, the protection of natural resources, environments are now included together and, I would like to point out, we have a Forest Administration where the area of forestry and hunting is given in the integrated jurisdiction of the Ministry. Out of activities at this stage, we highlight the systematic integrated management of natural values, intensive work towards the approximation of EU environmental legislation, the contribution of the economic development programme through the integration of environmental principles, the work on the recovery of ecological black spots, the introduction of cleaner technologies into the Serbian economy; then, respect for standards in managing economic capacities, an analysis of environmental impacts as an instrument for all international infrastructure reconstruction projects, the realisation of objectives in the field of forestry, forest protection and wildlife and support for the implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy. So we've made a certain code of conduct at the Ministry. We work significantly to access information freely, prevent conflicts of interest, implement a strategy for reforming the state administration. Within the framework of building a legal framework, a Sustainable Development Council was formed, making the Serbian government its definition that the environment is priority in economic development once again re-affirmed. A series of legal acts have been prepared and adopted, established, through the omnibus law, the decentralisation of certain jobs in the area of the environmental protection system in the belief that the best of local problems, pollution problems, what kind of air, which from the factories is something omitted, knows in the local community, and not at the republican level, so we supported the environmental decentralisation initiative. We are working very hard on intersectoral co-operation with other ministries in the government, other organisations and institutions. What's been achieved? In 2000, the environmental responsibility at the time had three elements: air protection, nature protection and environmental impact analysis, so that now, in 2003, they would have 22 responsibilities within their own framework. So, I say that I am the first Minister for the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment, saying that this is no longer the Minister for Environment, as it was before, who often called the Ministers for Promesis in the jargon, since their greatest responsibility was to protect the air. So we built a legal framework within the Ministry, that we have seven times as much jurisdiction as was found in 2000. It's been established and the environmental status is being monitored. It's about controlling the use and transport of plant and animal species. I would remind you of such a mentioned example of Balkan birds, where we now have for the first time within the Criminal Law the possibility that when we catch someone who deals with the traffic of these birds, without permission, not within the limits of what is allowed, they may now be subject to criminal responsibility. We're providing basic geological research, we've solved about a thousand impact analysis requests. A report on the state of the environment has already been prepared for 2002. The radioactivity report has been prepared. We have an analysis of the state of the forest sector, a national waste management strategy has been adopted, as one of the first strategies to have a programme to join the European Union. We've done some innovative things for the first time, as one of the rare countries in the region, let's say, measure the concentration of allergenic pollen in the air. International co-operation -- I'll remind you that we have a ship called Argus, a research laboratory, a donation from the Hessen government -- Germany, which is the largest individual donation ever received. We have very successful international co-operation. A preparatory document for the accession to the European Union has been drawn up. We participated in a sustainable development summit, we entered the European Environment Agency and we have a number of projects with international funding. The illustrations for the sake of this, international assistance in the environmental sector, which goes through the Ministry, in 2003 was ten times higher than in 2002, and in 2004, we already have international assistance, which is 20 times larger than in 2002; in 2002 we had a million euros in international aid. We equipped the first mobile tox unit to respond in case of chemical accidents, and it effectively intervened in cases that were: the leak of the tanker to Dorcolo, the train station. I can tell you that there is now a process to equip the other mobile eco-totocosecological unit. It is in Belgrade, and will now be in Nis, and in Novi Sad, the province's environmental authority has started some activities to train the unit for that part of Serbia. For the first time, the export of hazardous waste to treatment to another country has been organised. I'll remind you, one of the questions that the press asked me and everyone asked me when I got here -- am I going to solve the problem of the grill that lies in "The First Spark" Barich and when will it be? This was done and the roast was exported to another country for treatment, on the cost and budget of the government of the Republic of Serbia. What may need to be pointed out is that we, within our jurisdiction, have several public enterprises and that we have done the restructuring of the Public Enterprise "Serbiasum" with the entire social programme, with a full dialogue with all those involved in this process. It's just that it's been done so much in a partner relationship, it's simply left undetected because it's well done. We have now started to restructure four public enterprises - national parks and highlight this partnership that we have with national parks, professional organisations, institutions, Nature Protection Agency, the Recycling Agency and other institutions. As for the recovery of the ecological black dots, I want to say now for this speaker that this government has gained courage and determination to continue cleaning the ground from used ammunition with impoverished uranium, that it has remained somewhere in the areas since 1999. Everyone was trying to find some donations for it, and the donations didn't come. Something started at the federal level. In this entire space, we have now very determined that this problem is finally being resolved from the government of Serbia's budget and in those four locations of ammunition with the impoverished uranium. The siblings are in progress now. I'll be there again on Sunday, and we'll see how the work goes. We implemented fewer rehabilitation programmes in Bor and Kragujevac, we provided international assistance to Vrbas, Gornji Milanovac. Each of these international aids is worth several million euros. We've responded to the pollution of Iber. I have to answer this moment to an MP who said no one asked to go to Pristina, that no one had spoken to UNMIK. From this point on, I'm telling you that in the official channels, when Ibra's pollution took place, we sought to go to Pristina, talk to UNMIK, and we have talks with UNMIK on the subject. We are doing a lot of local environmental action plans, helping them from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because we are firmly in the view that the national environmental action plan must take into account everything that local environmental action plans bring as their priorities, because, once again, none of the citizens living in that place know better what environmental priorities are. I would point to something that may have remained undetected -- a privatisation model in Serbia in an ecological, friendly way. In December 2002, a memorandum was signed with the Privatisation Agency, so that all the facilities that are subject to privatisation go in an ecological and friendly manner and the buyer commits to act and bring the factory into a state that the standards of the environment are respected. In this context, we have also taken over the activities of the United Nations Environment Programme, which leaves Belgrade in December, which cleans up those locations resulting from the bombing. We will continue these projects. - Partnership, the public at work. This year, about 10 million dinars from the budget were allocated to NGOs and professional associations for projects in public competition. And yet something that has great significance, and the rest is undetected -- a new education programme that was adopted introduces environmental education as a mandatory electoral subject in the first grade of primary school. It is my pleasure that we already have primary schools in Serbia that we are helping to design this subject in the right way. We have publicly announced the results of the competition for entry into the use of fishing areas. We have a series of seminars, local self-government educations, journalists, NGOs. The NGO was for the first time a member of an official state delegation at a ministerial conference this year in Kiev. For the first time in Criminal Law, acts against the environment as criminal acts have been characterized. In the period from May 2002 to today, we have had 325 criminal charges, 183 for economic crime, 21 criminal charges, and 108 other criminal charges in forestry and hunting. We've got a successful action on poaching. We took over 150km of nets in illegal fishing, close to 2,000 pieces of all kinds of tools in the fishing area of Sava and Danube. In inspection this year, for the first time this ministry and the Serbian government formed a border environmental inspection. She existed under federal law, but with zero inspectors. So we and environmental inspection have formed border environmental control. Over 40,000 inspections have been carried out in the fields of environment, forestry and hunting. For the first time, we co-financed the protection and development programmes of protected natural resources, which in 2002 was seven times more than in 2000, and in 2003 15 times more than in 2000. We're setting up a new, youngest ministry, which is not easy. We've established two draft laws, we've passed 12 regulations. Several texts of the law have been prepared. In the end, I'd like to share with you that in the body of the Ministry, the Forest Administration is our satellite, we have 75% women, and that's why we're successful, and at the Forest Administration we have 70% of men who are such old-fashioned structures that the problem of restoring personnel in the forestry profession will soon come. By the end of this year, we hope to pass laws on a system of environmental protection, which will bring us closer to the European Union's standards and be tailored to Serbia's citizens, and bring new investments into our country. We have priority work on sublaws, the start of work on a number of other legislations in the process of approaching the European Union. Next year, we will do a national environmental action plan, adopt a national strategy for Serbia's sustainable development, with further cross-sectoral co-operation with all other ministries in the government and with partnership with all those involved in building a better, cleaner Serbia, for Serbian citizens. In that sense, we are recognised as a reform part and a reform government and we have been given the host of the "Life Centre for Europe" ministerial conference, which will take place in Belgrade in 2007. In the end, I want to say that the environment has no limits, the environment has no division, the environment has no price and that I stand firm in the fact that the profession, the work and the partnership of this team, to which I belong, has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34067	The word has a representative of the promoter, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34068	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought this government had a Prime Minister, but it doesn't seem to be, so every minister must, on behalf of the Government, file a report here to the Parliament. However, you abuse that member of 213. A Rules of Procedure that allows you to submit a report once a year, but it says there -- the government reports on behalf of the Prime Minister; just to teach you what the Government is, who is the Prime Minister and who has the authority. I have no intention of paying any attention to what the lady said before me, it is irrelevant to the reasons why we ask her to vote your mistrust. We're gonna get you back on the subject of this session, and these are Chumes, "Difens Road", asphalting, who is behind it; what happened to Janjusevic and Kolesar, as it happened to you that those two or three years in your government, as officials, come up with that kind of wealth, don't pay a tax, and only now the finance minister, because they've been calling him for months, says -- they have to pay taxes, so much and so much, because you won't tell the truth whether they bought them for their own needs, and the apartments and that money came from the Seishal and Marshall Islands, or for the needs of someone else from the government, who may be protected or no longer fit, your connection with the mob. To return the story to Mr. Covic and Canka, they were in the means of informing everything that is dirty in this government. I won't say anything new. When I'm going to talk about it, I'm just encouraging you now, I'm telling you not to miss out on the subject, because I'm going to let you all talk, and then I'm going to say 72 hours of what the public of Serbia needs to hear about you. I'm not going to answer to the lady's story on ecology; you haven't been able to get any laws on environmental protection to bring in this assembly, you pulled him out of the procedure, you gave him something again, you gave me amendments, you pulled back again, and now we've done something about it. It's a non-essential story for the wide layers of the population. These pains and these are the reasons why we think you're incapable of running this country. Let's remind you of Argentina and the Argentine script. And they had a stable course. And they were praised for how the transition was good and fast and they had co-operation and assistance from the IMF until the moment they were completely over-indebted, until they pulled out all the capital and then left them in the state they were in. To these questions you gentlemen give us answers, let's see how the property is sold out, who takes the commission. You're about to get concrete charges. We can't make it to your turn, as MPs, to say why we call you all. Here, I'm asking you topics to talk about, not how many employees you have, how many employees' salaries, how many inspectors there are, how many inspection controls you've done. Who cares? It's a state body that needs to do business. Only the minister can be interested in anyone else. Please, let's see how many bids were made. There are 800 requirements for reviewing the sale through bid. The president of the commission is Gašo Knezevic, to see what he has not solved. What's up with that? One day someone's gonna have to deal with it, and then we're gonna see what's going on. Why doesn't Gašo Knezevic do his job now, why don't you replace the man if he's not capable of doing the job? You know yourself that you have 800 requests to re-examine various sales, tendering, via bids. Let's see what's going on with this ridiculous trial for the Buha murder. All you had to do was read that "Mafia Poodle, Nebojsa Covic", Vojislav Seselj, you would understand. Then, at the address of Minister Mihajlovic, he can also now take to read a book, she just came out, "Laufer's calling me," and it's going to be a lot easier for him to deal with what's in his job description. You're making some special court by the reputation of The Hague, so those defendants are fainting, I guess, frustrated with everything that's going on around them. And most importantly, let's do a little bit of what's really about agriculture, someone gets a little bit of that theme, so they say, I don't know how much we've produced wheat and mercantile wheat. You should know that 200 kilos per capita is a necessary crop. If there are eight million of us, let's round it up, it means a million and 600,000, and you're talking about some 300 grand. What do we do for the million and 300 you miss? The responsibility for this catastrophic situation in agriculture is not on the minister, and you cannot bring us back here, Vesenova, and to say that Veselinov is responsible, he has led the wrong policy, he has not been able to, which is why he resigned. The government and the Prime Minister are always responsible for us, and the Food Commission, with the United Nations, has officially said that Serbia is threatening hunger. To these questions, you give us answers, so we'll talk about why you're good or why you're not good, why you should stay in power or why you shouldn't stay in power. With today's presentation of ministers, both the Minister of Education and the Minister of Ecology, with a small leap by the Minister for Trade and Tourism, I don't think I'm doing anything today, because it doesn't deserve attention. You have not killed by any single argument what we, as proposings, put on your soul in our motion for a vote of no confidence, but you are presenting some reports that absolutely no one is interested in, nor is it time for reports. It's time, obviously, for the election. You know that, and now you're using this pay phone to show how much you've done. How much of this you have achieved, knows and see every citizen of Serbia as soon as he grabs his pocket; believe me, when your stomach works, there is no ideologies anymore, there is no salvation for you. And we all in Serbia are already so hungry, miserable, miserable and sad, that we have to bring this government down if we want to prevent what the United Nations says about hunger in Serbia, if we want to prevent the Argentine scenario that is obvious here. Please, we are under occupation, a complete protectorate exists over Serbia. That's absolutely clear. You're not alone in anything. Alexander Macedonian didn't take down the rulers when he won, he left them to do their job, but as he says. That's how it happens to you. Here in this country, someone has to start thinking about how it's done in the interests of this country in the long run. You can't ad hoc from case to case, now the Americans don't give us the 92 million they promised us, and what we're going to do now, where we're going to find them, so you say you're going to China, not because you're looking for co-operation, but I don't know why, because of some of the debts Serbia has to China. China was a state that had the understanding for Serbia at the time we were under sanctions, while we were in a war environment, which gave and helped as much as it could and never asked for, nor indicated anything to bring it back to it. So, she wanted to help that way, and you won't have a difficult task with the Chinese, the Chinese are our friends, they need to be talked to. Please, they barely have enough pay for the embassy after the bombing. Why do you think the Americans took down the Chinese embassy? You don't know, because they were friends of the Serbian people, that's why, dear sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34069	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34070	And even socialists have kept away from foreign policy radicals, their icaban in some performances, so please don't spoil the heavily established good relations of Serbia with many countries, among other countries there is the People's Republic of China. They did help, and thank them for that, like everyone else, because now it's been charged, several times the interest has been changed, they are now brought to a level that is suitable for what credit relations are in the JJ century amongst the serious states, and I thank the Chinese leadership and the Chinese people for everything they've done, and that has nothing to do with you. There's one more thing you're saying is that 1,600,000 tons of wheat were bought in 1999 or I don't know what year, 2000, I don't know what year, but I know those years weren't bread, but it was to get up at four in the morning and buy bread. Where's your wheat, what you've been doing with it, I don't know. Anyway, I haven't noticed that bread's been missing for the last three years, or that prices are something, that something drastic is changing. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, you said at the beginning that you wouldn't talk about affairs and I normally knew it wasn't true, because what else would you say, but don't expect the ministers to talk about affairs, because it's not their job to create affairs. On the contrary, their work is all that they have told you, and they are not reports. Reports by ministers gave to the committees in charge, and on all committees, these reports were adopted unanimously or with one vote abstentioned and one vote against. In these committees, as far as I understand myself in this Parliament, MPs are sitting in a parity with their representation in the plenary room, except for those who don't know what they would do on these committees or who have such a policy that they shouldn't be on boards, but they still filed reports there, and here they talk about what the government did. You say, "Well, why don't you go back to the part we want to replace you for." I still haven't figured out why you wanted to replace us, I didn't realize, because you started with a lot of data that were, of course, proof that it used to be better. You said the government should be replaced because it violated the standards that Serbian citizens had in 2000 -- I admit it, we did. That standard is no longer what it was, four and a half times the salary, we've already said, it's actually three times the standard that it was. It remains far from the standard that this people need, which knows better, which was in better conditions, which can be better, but unfortunately, the period of recovery must last longer than those three years. In any case, around the books you mentioned, I know that many have boasted around that they have books, are in small circulations, but not laufers, they were called - the Master's Reports, somewhere from there 70 and some years from Sarajevo, and then slowly across Zenica approached Belgrade and here they now say - the Master's Reports from abroad. Anyway, with the new edition - the doctor reports. To go as we agreed, it was accepted, obviously that the debate shows that you accepted and thank you for that, for one reasonable approach to this debate. Tomorrow will be on the agenda, as far as the government is concerned, and everything related to the point you initiated, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development and the Ministry of Religion, along with the Ministry of Culture and Media. On Wednesday, it will be the Ministry of Labour and Employment, together with the Ministry of Business and Privatisation and with the Ministry of Construction, and Thursday is trade, agriculture and social. Next Tuesday, the MUP, the Justice Coordination Centres, is on Wednesday energy, traffic and local self-government. That's the schedule, you know. There'll be health this afternoon. Otherwise, let's make a deal, whenever you want, MPs, whenever you want, so you asked for this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear, you asked for this debate, you asked for a hearing, all in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. The debate takes place under the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, and if you want to stop the debate, then say we interrupt the debate, let it be voted on, and no problem, as far as we're concerned, you have no problem with that. I ask for more attention, I know it's lunchtime, it's lunchtime for everyone, it's just a little bit more attention, I've asked you to consider whether there should be a debate when the Serbian government delegation is in China, it's from Wednesday morning to Thursday afternoon. It depends on you, as far as the Serbian government and I are concerned, it's completely irrelevant, but I'm asking you if you want the debate to take place or to be interrupted, no matter what you agree to, say so, and we'll accept it. That's it. I am sure that, regardless of the failed expectations you have from the Serbian government, but that is the job of the Serbian government to fail the expectations of the opposition in such a form, because we are doing something by which we are both ideological and civilizational, in any other way, and that is no offense to either of you or to me, it is simply good that there exist in one country and educationally, that there are political forces that differ and that in the elections then citizens can choose between one and another option. I'm not afraid of choices, we've never been afraid of choices, either personally or partyly, or this coalition, therefore, depends on you when elections will be held, but that time of decision when it depends on you, it lasts another day or two. And then it depends on those who are just in charge of it, which is the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34071	Right on the line, Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34072	Mr. Prime Minister, we've learned that your source is one Ustasha from Posusje, and everyone knows that Posje is the place where all Serbs are most beastly slaughtered, and sources, that's what matters -- the magistrate. At the time Professor Seselj was a doctor, I know I, I got that paper you got, and I got me, too, you know. What Mr. Seselj wrote in "Laufer" is sources of national security, and if you weren't as charlatan as you are, you and the president of the party wouldn't have been killed. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34073	On the basis of article 101, I give you my first warning about the insult you've made.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34074	... but you would take seriously what is presented to you in public and what the President Seselj showed you in time. So, take care, when you find out something from people who have data from national security, because maybe they're hiding something from you, read it, take it to the knowledge, and don't take these Ustasha sources. Please, no one believes in such nonsense anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34075	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34076	As before, in the old bad habit, when you have nothing to say and so far you have named Zoran Djindjic for the last 15 years. I warn you to stop that. That whoever killed Zoran Djindjic in the investigation is clearly proven and the court will rule, and you are afraid of those places where you will answer to the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34077	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.55.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please proceed to the session and see if we have a quorum. I find that the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34079	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, since at this point the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have a health minister, who for political reasons has resigned himself, and the predecessor also resigned from the DSS... If I can finish, everyone will have a chance later. So, as chairman of the Committee on Public Services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which includes eight ministries, and one of them is the Ministry of Health, I will file a report on the work of the Ministry, which was kindly prepared by assistants and deputies in the ministry, and other employees. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia was elected in late January 2001, it found a health care system in Serbia that was, indeed, in a very difficult state. In nominal terms, the citizens were all promised, and in practice very little they could really get, starting with the lack of drugs, until we had big robberies and embezzlements in the health system. I'd like to remind you that against some former health ministers and some of the health institutions' managers are leading the investigation at this point, not prejudicing what's going to happen, because every man is innocent until he's convicted. The fact that this has also occurred shows that there have been many problems in the health sector. Immediately after the government's constitution, this sector has embarked on some reforms. However, of course, the main problem was that the resolution minister resigned after seven or eight months, i.e. the party that has been participating in power, has left power. In the transitional government, too, the resolute minister was from the same party. Practically, for a year, we had one situation that reform and legislative activity and changes of law were not brought to an end. I'm going to give a dreary report on what's been done in this area for about two and a half years, and I'm ready, of course, to answer the questions that you're interested in, although some of the questions, of course, would have to be addressed to the ministers who led this portfolio themselves and who, for political reasons, one and the other, had to leave. The most important activities of the Ministry of Health during this period were the coordination and implementation of international humanitarian aid and loans in this area, the supply of drugs, the supply of medical equipment and investment, the activities on the reform of the health care system, legislative activities and supervision of the work of health institutions and sanitary supervision. As for international humanitarian aid from government, NGOs and individual donors, it has been around 110m euros for the past two and a half years. If this is necessary in detail, I can count, I just want to remind you, honourable Members of the Parliament, that the Health Committee of the Assembly has accepted the report given by the Ministry. I can say that most countries have provided this assistance, as well as individuals and NGOs. It was used properly. The credits amounted to around 80m euros, and above all the World Bank, the restructuring of hospitals in the Republic of Serbia in four areas: Vranje, Kraljevo, Valjevo and Zrenjanin, covering about a million inhabitants, support for health care reform and $20m credit. Then, the World Bank helped us with a single loan, an improvement in energy efficiency, of 11m euros and a 50m-euro European Investment Bank to renovate 20 district hospitals in Serbia. It's a project that needs to be realized right now. As for the supply of drugs, medical equipment and investments, in 2001, 2002 and nine months of 2003, funds were provided through the RZZO of 146 billion 560m dinars, as well as from the Republika Srpska budget of 4.378.000,000 dinars. It is important to point out that the pharmacies and most medical institutions have now been well supplied with medicines, drug prices have not changed since October 2002, health institutions knew at the beginning of the year what amount of resources will be provided for healthcare, and that the application of the Public Procurement Act has achieved a significant role in the purchase of medicines and sanitary material. 19,539,000,000 dinars were spent on prescription drugs and sanity material. In addition, of course, new equipment was invested and replaced by amortised, broken equipment and spent 2,074,000 dinars. New medical equipment has been purchased from the Republika Srpska budget, and radiation devices in malignant diseases, in these five centres: Sremska Kamenica, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Kladovo and Nis, worth 450 million dinars. Let me say, since I actively participated in the security of these funds, at this point, bunkers are being built and that equipment has already been purchased. We're waiting for that equipment to be installed. It can be considered that in the next few months, Serbia, at least in these five centres, will have quite modern equipment according to world standards for malignancies therapy. So the equipment was purchased by three leading world producers in this area. Four Angel Halls, the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Institute of Mother and Child and Tirsova, amounting to 180 million dinars, have just been signed for 150 sanity vehicles worth 270 million dinars; otherwise, sanitary vehicles with full equipment, orthopedic surgery instruments worth 70 million, diagnostic devices for diabetics, X-rays, ultrasound and other sophisticated medical devices worth nearly 100 million dinars. Public procurement procedures are under way for the following medical equipment: 113 hemodialysis apparatus worth over 100 million dinars, 65 dinar respirators worth 120 million dinars, 85 endoscopes, 100 ECG apparatus, 65 defibrillators, anaesthesia apparatus and other apparatus worth more than 200 million dinars. Dear People's MPs, I would like to warn you that from the modest budget available to our country, we have been provided with large supplies and supplies to replace them. These data that I've provided make it very clear. I must tell you, health care was also one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and great efforts were made to get out of the budget, practically, and to separate funds for the purchase of new equipment. 921,495,000 dinars were spent on investment maintenance. So, the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget have been renovated, renovated and repaired over 100 ambulanates and hospitals, and a new maternity home in Novi Sad is being completed. This loan I mentioned earlier, from the European Investment Bank, in 20 places in Serbia will be used to repair infrastructure, meaning roofs, kitchens, sanitary parts, knots. So that the buildings themselves, the buildings are brought into a much better state than they are now, because we have the awareness that the buildings are being destroyed, because 10, 15 years nothing practical in them is being invested. As regards activities in the reform of the health care system, prepare for publication of the document - Better health for everyone in the third millennium, with health policy, a vision of health care and a work version of the health care system reform by 2015 and an action plan. A broad public debate has been organised throughout Serbia and all objections to the document have been collected and processed. 18 national expert groups and four republican expert committees on specific areas of health care have been formed, whose task was to formulate national reform programmes and the development of these areas with action plans. The national anti-smoking campaign has been going on for a year and has been marked by numerous public events aimed at drawing attention to smoking, as the most important individual risk factor for human health and preparing the government and the country to sign a ratification of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control adopted by the World Health Organization. Multi-sectoral co-operation with related ministries is taking place in the development of a poverty reduction strategy, where the health ministry is very actively participating. Their pilot project refers to reform of social policy and reform of higher education, and for the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources on projects that discuss the link between health and the environment. He is working with World Bank consultants to prepare reform activities in the health care system, especially in the area of health planning and financing of health care systems, and in particular public health, as well as the development of a communication strategy for social marketing reforms. As far as legislative activities and the work of health institutions are concerned, I would like to inform you of the following. A draft health care law has been prepared. The draft law was handed over to the Serbian Parliament. However, the resolution committee returned the law to the Ministry of Dorado. As far as I'm concerned, he obviously expressed a vision of a health care system, a measure of reform in this area. According to what I know, a number of members of the health board had a number of objections to the bill and it was returned to the Ministry to continue the discussion on it. There were several disagreements. One of them referred to private health care, a place in the health care system. A law on taking and transplanting parts of the human body has been developed to regulate a very important area, the need to regulate itself has emerged. The draft law on transfusions, the law on records, the law on determining the special jurisdiction of the AP, the omnibus law which was part of the commitment to finance and management handed over to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. 26 extraordinary expert controls were carried out, with over a thousand supervisors, after a break of more than 10 years. For ten years, there has been no health supervision in the Republic of Serbia. Twelve individual collective agreements have been signed, measures have been taken in connection with the organisation and implementation of a union strike in health care. A representative of the Ministry of Health has been engaged in the work of the government of Serbia's expert team on negotiations with representatives of the Government of Serbia concerning the implementation of the Action Plan for Harmonisation of two economic systems, in a work related to harmonisation, politics, which regulate the freedom of movement of services and labour movement. It has been actively engaged in the work of the Commission to combat AIDS and create a national strategy to combat AIDS. Then, participation in the project restructuring of health care systems, improvements, policy financing and management of health care systems, participation in the implementation of the project restructuring of hospital facilities, secondary health care in hospitals in Valjevo, Kraljev, Zrenjanin and Vranja; co-operation with the "Euro Health Group" and the Agency for Reconstruction. 8.985 inspections have been carried out in healthcare institutions and other forms of health care, of which 6,307 are regular controls, following reports by citizens 1,631 and 1,047 control inspections. In the course of inspection controls, due to identified deficiencies and irregularities in the performance of health care, 1,840 solutions have been made, 1,617 solutions being the removal of deficiencies, and 223 solutions on labour ban. As far as sanitary surveillance is concerned, 214,467 inspections have been carried out in regular inspection and 17,000 infringements have been submitted, 1,200 for the offence and 20 criminal charges. Since April 2003, the border inspection has carried out more than 40,000 checks on the subject of general use. The number of passengers placed under medical supervision for SARS was 4.305 and for cholera and malaria 880 passengers. As far as normative-legal affairs are concerned, a draft law on sanitary supervision, a law on the protection of the population against infection and disease and food law has been drawn up. Finally, a revised database for facilities under sanitary supervision has been revised. Since, in our public, it is often very arbitrarily talked about the entire health system, I just wanted to present three facts that will be relevant to your possible debate on the work of the Ministry of Health. We often ask questions about the number of doctors, the number of residents. The health ministry has been kind enough to make me this parallel table from which you can see the number of doctors on the 100,000 inhabitants of Serbia; here are doctors working in state institutions, doctors working in private practice are added. If you look closely, you'll see that we have more doctors per capita than there are in the United States. These are relevant data from the Ministry of Health. As far as income is concerned, we are fully aware that health incomes are inadequate education and education of these people and the weight of the work they do, but it is certain that this is also a precise table, which shows that since January 2002 (this is a doctor of general practice, specialists and subspecies) by December 2003 the salary of doctors increased on average by 81.95%, practically by 82%. This is the relevant information that shows that the salaries were constantly raised. Finally, the Ministry of Health and I, as resolute vice president, conducted negotiations and signed agreements with so-called. representative health unions. I must say, the Labour Act must be respected. At the very beginning, in the first half of 2001, whatever union from health care came to the government, was admitted and talked to us, but there was indeed a problem with which to sign a union agreement. The labour law also makes it very clear how representativeness is determined. At this point, the two health unions have that health ministry certificate, or the Ministry of Labour, that they are representative. As far as I'm concerned, I'll be glad if any other union gets it. I don't choose who I negotiate with, with equal respect, as well as the Ministry of Health, I negotiate with every union that represents health. Neither did we determine who would be representative, nor do we choose negotiators. With equal respect, we treat everyone, because these are all, of course, people worth respect. Only the Labour Act defines it precisely. For me, it is important: at this point, when we talk about the overall system that we inherited, what is obvious from this, is that despite the fact that two ministers resigned and that no system reform could have been done until the end, that the Serbian government, what it did, made great efforts, put health care as its priority, to raise salaries to health employees, to improve material health care, given that it is the most important thing for the country of Serbia and its citizens. No one should be convinced of the importance of the health care system for one country, although I must admit from this pay phone that the reform of this system has never been brought to an end because of the fact that for political reasons the two ministers left the post, one as a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the other as a member of G17 plus. Large material resources have been invested, and regardless of these funds, we understand that the situation in health care is very difficult today. I will only say in the end - I personally understand that the health care system rests to the greatest extent possible on enthusiasm and self-sacrifice of people working in that system. Without those people, that system couldn't work. As far as the Republic of Serbia itself is concerned, it was under these special circumstances, when it was twice interrupted in the reform of leaving the two ministers for political reasons, yet it invested in this system and today the system seems undeniably better than in 2001, when we started to deal with it. And lastly, there is no doubt that there are dissatisfactions, and for people who work in the health care system and those who are users of services, the health system reform process is certainly long term. I must warn that those who think this system can be reformed in half a year, a year. It's very dangerous. That system doesn't tolerate experiments, he's looking for informed decisions. I believe, one step at a time, but with one clear vision of what is to be achieved. As far as these governments are concerned, her vision was to bring the system to a level where it would work better and prepare for the structural reforms that were yet to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34080	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34081	Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the public in Serbia, and because of the free media that are unilaterally reporting from the session of this assembly, I have to take the opportunity, first of all as a motion to vote for no confidence in the government, to say that the prime minister here told a lie (media has passed it on) about how the SRS allegedly tried to make a deal with the Serbian government to give up this proposal unless it was thrown out of its premises. Of course, no one transmitted what I said about this pay phone. I want again, in front of the whole Serbian public, to say that this is one notorious lie and that we would all agree here to commit a collective suicide before we could negotiate with Zoran Zivkovic about something like that. If you do not have a stronger argument against SRS presidential candidate Mr Tomislav Nikolic, since you support candidate Dragoljub Micunovic, who has surprised you all, who you have temporarily kicked out of your party, and now you support him again, think of something more effective. Imagine if I said now - he offered us Zoran Zivkovic a million euros not to put this proposal on the agenda. The whole of Serbia would trust because they know that you only agree to blackmail. The other news that is now on television is that you are looking for the resolution of Marija Rasete-Vukosavljevic. Where have you been for so many months, since this affair around Maria Rasete-Vukosavljevic has since summer shaken Serbia, to do so, rather than now, when the SDP has conditioned it for you. You can only talk to political opponents, blackmail methods, and you think it can go public. Everyone's already read you. I've been watching and listening since this morning, and I don't mind you submitting these reports at all. The more you tolerate them, the more clear it is that you haven't done anything at all. I don't need to talk about you anymore, just to let you tell it all yourself and finally access the vote, which obviously won't come, because you are aware that there are no more MPs here who can support the government's policy and that these elections are inevitable and that these elections are December 21st. That's obvious. That date coincides with the day when you will be forced to call the election, which is immediately after the presidential election.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34082	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34083	There are a lot of objections that can be very justified to put on my cheek, on my work, on what I've been doing. There are probably objections that can be placed on each and every one of you, but it's certain that anyone who worked with me, next to me, together, for these 10 or 12 years in politics, and before that in any other business, knows I'm not lying. Your presidential candidate knows that, and so does your president. When I said it was offered to improve relations between the SRS and the Serbian government, or the Democratic Party, it was an offer that, if a court decision is not implemented, whatever it is, around the magistrate in Zemun, the SRS will be a loyal partner in shadow. So it's not going to be normal, it's going to use its potential to calculate with its former partners or with its current partners. It's nothing unusual. We've received such offers before, for years. In the last ten years, there have been many such offers, but, unfortunately, in 10 years, no one has realized that such offers can not be positively accepted in the Democratic Party. As far as the election is concerned, I repeat that there will be a choice. It is not my goodwill, the government or the Democratic Party, but it will be a decision that will be based on positive legal regulations. I'm sure it won't be December 21st, to help you. Now the question is, why do radicals think December 21st is some big day? Because in their development they began with throckism, through communism and everything else, and on December 21st, Stalin was born. They think that on that day they have a better chance of winning the election. Unfortunately, you won't make it. Stalin's dead, so I'll let you know, and Tito's dead. This is now a democratic Serbia with democratic authority, which cannot respond positively to pressures or offers that are below any level of decency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34084	National MP Zoran Krasic, right to the replica, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34085	We're not scurrying, we're scurrying them, so you know. That's a big difference. The predecessor, as a major political visionary, forgot to say "other Stalin". I hope it stays remembered. From that famous vision, as I told you at first, no more guns, no more educators, now there's a coalition. We can't go with you at all. You see, you've been in power for three years and you're still the opposition, the democratic opposition. Yesterday you filed paper that you are the opposition, and that is democratic, with the line Vojislav Kostunica, and there it is, imagine, even Velja Ilic. You've all been abandoned, remember. Well, why should we with you who have fallen apart make any combinations, especially with political visionaries who at the beginning of this debate say, "reforms can either be unsuccessful or unpopular." This government has made a third variant, both unsuccessful and unpopular, so it is said to have something to do. You know, like when it comes to surgery. Operation hurts a little more than basic pain. Yes, but that's why there's anesthesia, but you're not anesthesia, you're a cruel reality for this people. This people don't want this kind of Serbia, you know that, people. The dilemma is either DOS or Serbia. Anyone normal will do for Serbia, no one will do for DOS. You three years don't know how to make a list. It's full of dead people. There's people in there with no ID. What are you talking about? You just couldn't fix the list. You're talking about some clipper, some excel, some experts, it's wonderful, wonderful, while the Democratic Party was in power. We now know that this is Serbia's intellectual wasteland. Where are your intellectuals? You couldn't have gathered to put the government together. It is not known in this government whether the Prime Minister is the minister of traffic, her husband or the one who pretends to be the Prime Minister. This is a government that doesn't have a minister, this is a government that has bureaus and agencies. Make an agency for the voter list, build an agency that needs to give you a name at last. You have a nice name: the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. If you think you're going into opposition, and I think in a year, you're going to be a tough out-of-parliament opposition, because with the Democratic Party, no one will ever plant pumpkins again, remember. Would we descend to this level to make any arrangements and negotiations with the Democratic Party, with those who begged and begged to place our president in The Hague? Who would forgive us? You won't find any radicals, and certainly no citizen of Serbia, who will talk to you more.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34086	The word has been delivered by Parliamentarian Stevan Guduric, as an MP who issued an opinion at the Committee's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34087	We heard Mrs. Angelka Mihajlov's report on the Ministry of the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment. On that committee, I ruled out the opinion, not because the report was not good, and because the ministry did not do what his job was, but because I felt that we should ask the Prime Minister here today why the environmental law, which is ready for a year and a change of days, did not see this assembly? That was the other day, when you didn't know what was going on and when there was more larma in this room than at the game. I'm asking you, why wasn't it a year ago and change days ago? It was said, your predecessor, the late Mr. Djindjic, that it was an important reform law. It is important and it is generally good, given that it is in line with most of the parliamentary groups, I just don't understand, from an example in the local environment from which I come, why this law has not come so far. He didn't come to the agenda for one simple reason. That law would be very damaging for those you gave to sell out companies. For example, the company that you sold for a fish Tepsia - Beokin cement factory. I quote - measuring suspended particles between 17th and 26th of September in Beocino indicates that the settlement near the industrial zone is very burdened by this airport... Of the total of 10 measurements, all 10 show values greater than the emission limit value. The maximum value was 1198, which is 11 times higher and the minimum value at that interval was 238, or 2.38 times the allowed value, so in the air what was never recorded in Beocino is now recorded, increased cadmium and arsenic concentrations. I would ask you to take such friends to the environment where you live, and to take care of us who live in some other environments, with your friends like that. You, Mr. Zivkovic, can nod all you want, but come live in one such environment. No one says that Beocin and some similar environments were golden environments in an ecological sense in some previous time. No one can say that. No one in their right mind can say what your adviser, Mr. Srda Popovic, has said that the ecological situation in the environments where cements were sold is significantly better than before. It's not a theoretical category, because he only went to school in his life, and then after the theory in practice, he did nothing. You'd have to, if he'd been in such an environment, to see that it was significantly worse than it was. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. Excuse me, you have five minutes. ) Because, Mr. Prime Minister, these are the naked numbers made by the industry research company from which the production and protection of the environment is from, meaning a company that has a license from the Ministry of Environment, that it can make such measurements. These numbers, unfortunately, are ruthless, just like the light of the data here ruthlessly towards you. Otherwise, if we're talking about it, we talked about it here the other day, what and how many rules. This company that you promoted from here, how well it produced in the last year when it took over the Beocina cement factory, how much Beocinian cement factory produced in 1997 and 1998. I'll remember that it was a time of sanctions, so it was probably harder than now, when someone loves you the most. Because in 1997, the cement plant made 1,026,381 tonnes and 1,099,227 tonnes. If you understand, it's still over a million. That million was built by the Lafarg firm, and I don't see what it is, a world miracle. Just to let you know, since there's a lot of things you don't know, the French didn't teach us to make cement, it's going to be that we taught someone else, because the first cementist in Europe was in England, the second in Germany, the third in Beicino. As you understand, none of them were in France. So you didn't bring someone to teach us. Maybe this one learned from us once, since Beocino's cement is made 160 and change years. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. It's not for waste. Mr. Vlahovic, I will continue this report with some other information.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34088	The word comes from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34089	Ladies and gentlemen, it is November 3rd, how this session is going, and how I came, from ministers and from all the others to words. The Minister, by the way, has not been in this assembly for a long time, and we are simply flattered to see how much a man can't take them off the phone, when they get caught, and how now, when they're forced against the wall, they've resisted to explain to us how great they are and how virtual reality and some parallel world in which they live something that we all need to believe and what they are. Something that is quite different from what they convince us of and the figures they show us. It is a real life that negates every big story that we hear about this speaker, that deny the story that we are growing gross national income, that we live much better, that the average salaries are better, that simply, Serbia is a country that grabs big steps in transition and that we are a country that has more privatisation this year than the three countries in our environment, where there are billions and 200 million euros, how much of this year's privatisation will be included, something that has no other country in the region. I wonder where that money is, then, because we don't feel these great successes, and why the citizens of that great success do not feel in their real, simple life, that at least something is easier for them and that at least a little easier to live. It's the only thing every citizen expects of you, to live easier and to grow its standard. I know you're going to be talking about the consumer basket, which, compared to three years ago, was reduced to make it bigger. If you reduce the volume of the consumer basket, of course they will fit more in the average profit and less average earnings will be needed to fill those consumer baskets. It's something we can't discuss here. You will claim yours and convince us that we live much better and that you live much better than you have lived. I have no doubt that you live better, but the citizens of Serbia definitely don't live. I would like to return this debate to the work of the government, to break up with some of the political poles that were today, which are nothing more than an attempt to make some marketing in this presidential campaign in order to fix the number of voters in the presidential election. The way you conduct this debate will only deter people from going to the polls and will say even stronger and more confident that the extraordinary parliamentary elections are the only way out of this situation. The presidential elections do not resolve anything and the people want an extraordinary parliamentary election. That is why, after all, these elections will not succeed, however much you resist campaigning for Dragoljub Micunovic, who said his first task would be to disband you, who are making his campaign. Even he doesn't trust you, but well, ask him. Let's go back to what might be the question before all the questions. This is a matter of legality and legitimacy in this assembly and a general question of the legality and legitimacy of the Government arising from the illegal and illegal assembly. A assembly that did not respect the Constitutional Court's decision, which did not bring order to the Constitutional Court, the Constitution and the law of its composition. Such a congregation, can it be legitimate? He can't. Can she be legal? Of course he can't. Can what arises from the illegal state of affairs, the unconstitutional state, be legal and constitutional? Of course he can't. And the Serbian government, since it does not have a good share of its ministers, that it works through unconstitutional bureaus and agencies, that it stemmed from an unconstitutional, illegal, illegal assembly, is hardly able to have its own legitimacy and legality. That legitimacy and legality count as percentages. Unfortunately, it shows more and more time, or fortunately the Democratic Party of Serbia, single-digit percentages, single-digit numbers. It is the legitimacy and legality that you enjoy and which is equal to the results of your work. How does the government rule? The government rules, especially those against constitutional and illegal, those regulations that allow smuggling. Remember only the regulation on the transport of excise products for the Kosovo and Metohija areas. We also proposed in 2001 that a survey committee be set up to determine how many tobacco smugglings there are in Serbia. Remember that. The assembly majority did not want to accept then to determine who and how much it traffics around Serbia. It wasn't someone's goal, and so far, that question hasn't been opened. So far, we have not solved the issue of tobacco smuggling, it is likely that these large companies that have come to Serbia will resolve this issue because they will be in their interest to prevent tobacco smuggling. Today, we received confirmation of corruption in the government, when Prime Minister Zivkovic himself applied for the resolution of Marija Rasete - Vukosavljevic as a member of the government. That's nothing but confirmation of what we claimed. I expect the ministers who spoke - when they get confirmation of corruption in the government, they will resign, do it; among the first are Bozidar Djelic, who is not here, but said - I will resign first when corruption is established in the government. We got confirmation of that today. If the Prime Minister submits a request for the resolution of Maria Rashete - Vukosavljevic because of the conflict of interest, what is it but a confirmation of our views. We expect this government to be responsible for that too, because it is impossible to know only today and that someone on the side of this affair has not opened up, you would be silent, because you simply operate on the basis of deals, various compromises, on balance, in corruption and fear. This government mocked legalism, a series of things it did against the constitution and against the law, Milosevic used the constitution when needed, and criticised it when it did not need to; when it was necessary to deliver Milosevic, then his constitution was good and used by that member of the 135th Law, which was precisely the same Milosevic used to break the former Yugoslavia, then that member of the law, was constitutionally used to deliver it, and then Milosevic's constitution was good, in other situations when it was necessary to respect that constitution and those laws, it was then Milosevic's laws. Why the Constitution and the laws were not passed, why no new system laws were passed, which prevented the law on railways, from standing in the Assembly for a year, which prevented these laws from being on the agenda, who downloaded the law on the environment protection system from the agenda on November 29th last year, which the MP submitted a request for removal from the agenda, whether it was an MP from the opposition's ranks or an MP who was the vice president of the DOS-Reform of Serbia. I think it's that MP and we have that paper. If someone is talking about why system laws aren't being passed, then you should just look at why these laws aren't put on the agenda and who was taking them off the agenda. If we talk about legal certainty, you will all know and you will all say that it is not there and that legal certainty, as one of the key elements for foreign investment, absolutely does not exist in Serbia. This state and this government have separated two concepts, a question of legal certainty and market economy mechanisms. The issue of legal certainty has been completely neglected, here some effects have been achieved at the level of macroeconomic policy, but legal certainty has been completely neglected and therefore foreign investments are not available. What do we have left of the expert government? Nothing, it's nice that someone here said nothing and nothing. There is no longer an expert, because they all joined the parties more quickly, and their expert authority, which was very quickly spent, sought to protect the party's engagement, or membership card in individual parties, so that they could remain in the government, so that there are no more experts at the beginning of the mandate, all of them took party books and are all party officials now. Someone throws -- the collector's an expert, we'll see, or someone else, but we'll see who's an expert. Here, just two indicators to read to you, like this, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has analysed the level of differences for investment in Eastern and Southeast European countries, the risk of investment is worth between one and seven. So, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is a relevant international institution that you often mention and from which you often take loans, analysed the risk of investing in Southeast European countries and in the Balkans and is worth between one and seven. We have to say that your government got a score of seven, which is the lowest grade, and that's how they see you on the outside. It is one thing that you boast of various praises and others, is how they see you on the outside and how they advise their businesses to invest in Serbia, and it is seen by investments in Serbia. The second is the Heritage Foundation, which brings the economic freedom index every year, on the basis of ten specific parameters, set out the following -- according to an estimate of this prestigious foundation for 2003, economic freedom in Yugoslavia is 4.25, which is an estimate of the maximum negative estimate of five. So here we are at the bottom of that scale, their estimate is that the economic environment in Serbia is economically free, unattractive for investment, resulting in us in 149th place of 156 ranked countries, only Belarus, Libya, Cuba, North Korea, Angola, Burundi and Iraq. This is looking at facts... (President: Do you want to use the next ten minutes?) ) I end up, so this is looking at facts, not us, this is what relevant international organisations say when you take credit taps on your back, and that's why Serbia fell into debt crisis, where in 2004, our debt will grow to $10,130,000,000, and the payment will be $719 million, which our country will not be able to do. I know you're laughing, because you won't pay back all the debts you're taking, and we'll pay back, and I know it's very easy for you to sign off on any further debt... (President: People's Parliament, 12 minutes.) ) I am finishing; your account will certainly be delivered to you and this account will be corruption, organised crime, abuse of official position, and we will discuss that when the government changes in Serbia. The Democratic Party of Serbia, of course, will vote in favour of mistrust with the government of the Republic of Serbia and all its arguments, will present most of the arguments during the discussion of the government's confidence in the DSS initiative, where such data such as the European Bank's analysis of reconstruction and development and the Heritage Foundation will be much more, which will prove more than factually that this government has ruined Serbia and the potentials Serbia had in 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34090	Replication rights, MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, then MP Sinisa Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34091	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, colleague Mihajlov, it is possible that your consumer basket looks smaller and smaller from month to month, but trust me that nothing has changed in that consumer basket, so the consumer basket is exactly the same as it did in 2000. It is true that there have been errors in the government, but it is true that whoever is doing this and making mistakes, it is true that your representatives in the government Obren Joksimovic and Aleksandar Pradic have not sinned, because they simply haven't changed anything. They weren't able to make mistakes because they didn't do anything. The citizens of Serbia remember perfectly, because you were in the coalition with us, you showed how much you know, you showed it in the army when Mr. Kostunica was at the head of the army and don't tell us about the mistakes, when you didn't make a mistake and it's true that you didn't make a mistake, because you didn't do anything. As for the presidential elections, we are pleased that you have joined the presidential campaign, you have supported President Velimir Ilic's candidate; given the two previous defeats you have suffered, it is quite understandable, therefore, fear is a natural matter, but we still believe that your candidate cannot even approach our candidate and therefore we call on Serbian citizens to vote 16 November for our candidate, Prof. Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34092	National Envoy Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34093	Mrs. Micic, dear Prime Minister, I have been mentioned several times in the past several weeks as a mysterious person, who, I say, has buried the law on the environmental protection system. I would not like to make the wrong impression in the public on this, I have invested my entire working life protection life span, and the only thing I can say is that in December of the month following the production of the environmental system law, which the government adopted in May 2002, we transferred it to parliament and we had 400 amendments. I want to say that this is a very serious business, very serious intention, that we are looking for a law that will be a consensus of all forces in parliament, and I expect full support from the DSS, and I am sure that with this ambience, Serbia will get a new law on the environment system by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34094	The word has been made by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SNS parliamentary group, for 10 minutes, you have been using for 10 minutes, so 10 more minutes you have the right to use.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34095	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, things aren't going very well. It is certainly interesting for viewers to listen to representatives of the political parties from the original DOS, but since they find it interesting nothing else can be obtained. The bread is not mixed, none of it is produced and the standard of citizens is not corrected. It is certain that the people of Serbia were right when they wanted to change in September 2000. He had a hard time living, and he was right about what he wanted to change. All of you from the original DOS promised them these changes. You made them those promises, that they would live much better in the land. Then what happened? When you received the trust of Serbian citizens in this room, there were 176 original DOS MPs, and 74 MPs from the opposition. In this same room, as the first representative of the opposition, I went out for a pay phone, to the general surprise of 176 of you that I have the courage to appear and speak to you. But then we came to this day, to the day that Mr. Dejan Mihajlov is misstated about the government and the Democratic Party, citing many examples that he and the Democratic Party of Serbia have voted for and we have come to the day when Mr. Bojan Pajtic, his colleague from September and October 2000, answers about the vote for Mr. Micunovic or Kostunica. So we've come to the truth. Explain nicely to Serbian citizens that we are all sitting in this hall because of you from the original DOS. We are sitting because the first personal interests in the original DOS began to outvote and outvote party interests, and then all of you from the original DOS put party interests above national interests. A wheel broke amongst you, and there's been a problem among you, and we're in a situation where we have major problems in the country. You promised the people that they would live better, but it's certainly clear that the composition of today's government shows it and the prime minister is right to demand that Mrs. Rushetta be replaced today. The government's composition shows that we in the government have got people who have never fought to secure the placement of their products and to provide wages for their workers. We in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have people who are either from the scientific sphere or have not had serious jobs before in their careers. On the other hand, the same government in such a position cannot understand the economy. The government has great power to help the economy. A government that has a quality frame, human potential can make a difference in concessions to get on its feet. It is true that you have found an economy that has survived the embargo and sanctions, but this economy that has survived the embargo and sanctions, if you are already opening this country, requires people who will understand what the economy needs to help. In the most difficult time in the earlier government there was a Dragan Tomic from Vranj who knew the economy very well, who made excellent moves and with these moves essentially made it possible for the economy to produce more than at the time of the embargo. At the same time, you allowed monetary policy to be run by people who are directly executioners of the request of the International Monetary Fund. You let monetary policy run by the man who did everything just didn't do what the economy had to do that had to do with the process of production and that had to start working. If you have an economy that survived the embargo, in which 18% of the capacity has been destroyed in NATO aggression and if you have a position that, as you say, the world provides you with a hand and that you have the favor of individual states, then you must provide that economy with a trade capital, a cheap trade capital with decent interest, which the economy can repay. You allowed such monetary policy to be conducted, which was closed by banks that were otherwise known to co-operate with the economy and invest in the economy. Today it is known that Beobanka is positive and that it is for no reason closed, that it has a billion dinars more active than passive, but the government of the Republic of Serbia is guilty in the eyes of citizens. The situation in the country is bad and you cannot conduct a special policy beyond the overall economic policy. Economic policy forms the government of the Republic of Serbia. Everything that happens in the country is part of economic policy. In the minds of citizens, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the highest responsibility, and you should imagine why you came to the position that the rating of a party that did nothing would be higher than the rating of a party that was doing bad, but something was trying to do. So these marketing moves that are being dragged into political work and state work aren't being dragged in the best way possible. Citizens must understand, thanks to the original DOS in general, all 176 MPs have led the crucial part of economic policy here. All together have adopted the Privatisation Act and there is not one party of 176 MPs who can be amnested for any move on the Privatisation Act, about a tax policy that has additionally burdened the economy, which today is trying to play the opposition. You have come to the government of the Republic of Serbia in a position for the opposition to objectively demand your shift and the Socialist People's Party will vote in favour of impeachment by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the simple awareness of the Serbian citizens is exactly what it points to. Wherever a citizen goes to Serbia, it's the government's fault. There's nothing else. The government of the Republic of Serbia is always responsible for everything that is happening in this country, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is guilty in the minds of the citizens. And that every MP bears the blame, the government of the Republic of Serbia, in the minds of the citizens, bears the greatest blame and that is why the Socialist People's Party will vote in favour of the government's shift. The question is what we're going to do tomorrow, and that's what this Parliament needs to talk about. What are we gonna do tomorrow? How does this country continue to integrate with the European Union? How can this country run such a monetary policy that will allow businesses to reach capital, that they can import, that they can produce, that they can export to the foreign market? I think we've come to the worst possible position, which is that this pay phone, starting with me talking here today, and to anyone who talks here, we all use it for a pre-election campaign. So, in fact, we have to tell the truth - the election campaign has begun. And I say on behalf of the Socialist People's Party that these discussions should be shortened, that it is necessary to speed up the completion of the agenda and indeed call an extraordinary parliamentary election, because of what is being done here today in the Assembly for the sake of the people's benefit there is no. From what's heard here at the pay phone today, yesterday, the day before and tomorrow, nothing better can be done for families in this country or for business. I think it's much more important to finish these points. If you can make alliances among yourselves, make them vote what must be voted upon. If the government falls, to think about the future government, and if the government survives, to keep working in a different way, aware of everything that's been said here. The essence is the following, and that is what Serbian citizens must understand: all 176 MPs from all groups of the original DOS bear equal responsibility for everything that has been happening in this country over the past three years. There is no amnesty for any group of original DOS, whether it is now positioned on the side of the government or on the opposite side of the government. The government of the Republic of Serbia inevitably bears its responsibility, but for the Socialist People's Party, it is absolutely the same responsibility that all those who together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia have created such a policy that has brought the economy to its position and who has brought the citizens of Serbia into this position.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34096	Right on the line, MP dean mihail.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34097	I don't know what responsibility Mr. Ivkovic and his party bear, given that they have supported the 2003 budget, the Law on Lustration and everything, so that his part of responsibility is certainly to be discussed, and it is greater than the responsibility of the Democratic Party of Serbia and some of the other parties that he accuses of what is happening, so, despite one regrettable thing that the government is going to fall in this assembly, which we heard from Banet Ivkovic, the government is, however, going to fall and we will probably not wait to see how sadly someone votes against the government and against his will, but here to secure some position for the next elections. As far as the presidential elections are concerned, there have been a lot of words about them and there will still be, because this speaker will be used and the DSS will, of course, boycott and not come out. What is a fact that, for example, DOS presidential candidate submitted his candidacy and was proposed by DOS -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica, the Democratic Party of Serbia and other parties. So Mr. Micunovic submitted his candidacy to the Republic Election Commission, to be proposed by DOS - Dr. Vojislav Kostunica, the Democratic Party of Serbia. Who cheats on citizens and who doesn't cheat on them? He cheats on the citizens, he cheats on everyone. We boycott the elections, he submits the DOS list -- Dragoljub Micunovic, DOS -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica, DSS, and all parties are listed and New Serbia is somewhere. Imagine, he is supported by New Serbia, who has its candidate in the presidential elections! According to what Dragoljub Micunovic wrote, he is supported by the party. Then I don't believe that Dragoljub Micunovic would lie, he's too serious a man with a long democratic internship and I don't believe that a man would thus compromise his professional and democratic reputation. Those who are campaigning for him, who have been collecting signatures for him, I think they are doing it in such a way as to try to deceive citizens into standing behind him DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, DSS, which is really totally unacceptable. If that's how you think you're gonna win the election, I'm afraid you won't, because we don't go out in those elections and of course we're going through RIK to do everything we can to remove that truth from the ballot, where DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica will stand, which we don't, of course. I would like Dragoljub Micunovic to lose by getting two million votes from Serbia's citizens, as much as he received Dr Vojislav Kostunica, to get the support of a third of the electoral body in Serbia, and I would like someone to lose that way, because this is proof that every third citizen of Serbia supports you and stands behind your policy, what you do. I think it best qualified the one who got it for the next extraordinary parliamentary elections we're going to win, but spend words on that kind of abuse and qualifications, really, let someone say where New Serbia, which has its candidate, supports Micunovic and how to use and abuse stamps that existed in 2000... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. I'm done. The seals that existed since 2000 are now being placed in order to deceive citizens. Don't do this to one honorable Mr. Micunovic, a fighter for democracy, to compromise him and prevent him from getting any more votes in this campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34098	The word has a minister of economy and privatisation, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34099	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Since several alarming, dramatic data related to the state of the Serbian economy are mentioned here behind the pay phone, I would like to say for the public that Serbia's foreign debt level at this point is far less than it was at the moment the DOS took over. In the meantime, we managed to regulate all foreign and internal duties, except one. Negotiations with the London Club are under way and a high debt write-off rate is expected based on the London Club. A regulated obligation to the domestic population for stolen old foreign exchange savings and to regularly pay off payments for old foreign exchange savings each year, as well as for the loan for the economic rebirth of Serbia, as well as for the two phantom banks, which were created in the 1990s for survival in order to finance social peace and for the length of political survival. With the Paris Club, therefore, a club that gathers trustees countries has been reached for one debtor country the most favourable arrangement, which is so-called. The terms of Naples. I'll remind you, 66% of the total debt belonging to the Paris Club is off-limits. A similar write-off rate is expected when it comes to negotiations with the London Club. In the meantime, it is true that Serbia has provided sovereign guarantees for loans used to restructure health, energy, economy, to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which you could listen very closely to Minister Pitic, who has said very precisely how much Serbia's total foreign debt has been reduced. Therefore, there is no reason to spread pessimism from this pay phone that Serbia will fall into some kind of debt crisis. Absolutely should not be expected, because Serbia is the only country in the transition that has recorded the growth rate of total economic activity in the last three years, i.e. the social gross product. It is precisely according to the dynamic growth of social gross product that is defined and the level of duty. Therefore, it is another truth that is spreading and that is pure pulsism, so that another political point can be gained for this speaker, in front of the public. The second thing, as regards the risk of investment in Serbia, first of all, is a risk analysis based on risk, i.e. an analysis conducted by international multinational companies. It is true that the scale of risk is between zero and ten and that political and economic and financial and all other risks identified by foreign companies before investing in a country are included. What I want to tell you, which is the best denial that Serbia is a high-risk investment country, is that Serbia will be a leader in Southeast Europe in 2003 with regard to the level of foreign direct investment. Serbia will have more than 1,200,000 euros of foreign direct investment in 2003, and this is the best response to those who talk about the risk of investment. Fortunately and unfortunately for them, major multinational companies, 15 multinational companies that have invested in Serbia's economy, are the best evidence that Serbia's market is extremely respectable from the perspective of future growth and that Serbia, in the right sense, is the center of investment in the Balkans, which we prove to our results in 2003. It is true that it is difficult to live in Serbia. It is true that the invoices made in the 1990s have been paid in Serbia since 2001. No one has said for a moment that life in Serbia and that living standards are at a satisfactory level, but it is true that our only time for economic recovery is an economic transition, which means building a competitive economic structure. The best answer for how those who offer advice today on how to help businesses and banking is the inherited economic structure of the 1990s, the level of efficiency or more accurate inefficiency and the total debts found at the moment the DOS formed the government. The best answer to this is four large banks that were large on their own debt alone, i.e. on their uncharging claims. It was the only way to restructure the banking system, to liquidate the four banks, because it was a key move to create a healthy banking system and that job, of course, is not yet finished. It is true that the state has only limited measures that can stimulate economic growth, which can directly accelerate the economic transition. The bottom line is, and the key assumption is that anything is done in this country, to carry out a successful economic transition, i.e. that we all be ready together to tell the truth, not to court the voters and not to promise them towers and cities, which neither of us can achieve. The way you did, you showed and there's no need to remind the people of what you did in the 1990s. In the 1990s, you've shown what a wasteland you can leave behind. What is needed today over time is a consensus to move on, even stronger and even faster into economic reforms. I want to mention in the end, that I quote the reports, and they are the following: the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the third time declares Serbia a leader in transition from all transition countries. As for key processes, therefore, not the European Investment Bank, but the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as regards key transition processes, privatisation, public financing arrangements, it comes from international financial institutions, such as the IMF and the World Bank, Serbia, as well as the transition leader. But, please, we don't need any internationals or I don't know what kind of praises. Of course they are welcome, because they come from people who know what transition is and how difficult the road is to build a healthy economic structure. The best confirmation for what we're doing is just the results, and I'll remind you once again: over a billion and 200 million euros in direct investment; over a thousand privatised companies; 15 multinational companies; third year in line with a budget that is real, which is not destabilization of our economic system; regular financing of what you've never been able to finance regularly -- and pensions and social contributions and financing of old foreign currency savings, paying back the debts you've made. You made a debt for the old foreign savings stolen, the loan stolen, the stolen currency savings from the straws, etc. So these are successes and results. I can't forget the cost of your vermin rule, which you did in the '90s.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34100	The word has been delivered by MP Predrag Mijailovic, an MP who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34101	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, both brothers and sisters, I gave my opinion to the Health Committee when a report was submitted by the Ministry of Health. The report was submitted by the deputy minister, and as a rule, the minister's report should be submitted, while the resolute vice-president is the resolute vice-president for five of the resolutions: security, for information, etc. It says enough how this government has understood what health means, that this government is not a health priority, but that health care is on the sidelines of events, but that should not happen in any country. The report consisted of giving information on solving current problems. In that part of the report, I have nothing to add or take away, normally when there was as much money as there was, and if that money was really used where it was supposed to be. A sufficient example of how this government thinks about health care is that we don't have a minister. We had him for about seven or eight months. Obren Joksimovic, who is very often mentioned here, who is from the Democratic Party of Serbia, logically came out of the government after six months and faced him normally, or as our people say he clashed, or disagreed with the government, because the government had a second concept of health development, and as it was seen that the government had no concept of health development. Mr. Obren Joksimovic had a clear goal, that he should separate, normally, first of all to influence the Health Insurance Fund, because all the money that was in the Health Insurance Fund... Then, Mr. Obren Joksimovic prepared the laws of reform, which we agreed, the health care law, the social security law and the law on medical chambers. Mr. Minister, if I'm at least familiar with the health department and I know what's done, I don't have to understand myself right, but I understand this part. Mr. Minister, all right, let's be that Obren Joksimovic didn't pass the laws and couldn't, but we believe in the DSS that at the time and at the right moment he retired, because he saw that he couldn't co-operate with the government, because the government is not prepared to carry out any reforms in health. There's clear evidence for that. When the minister came back, after a year and something, the same minister was announced as a great expert, as a man who would give birth to health care. So, what's the matter? He tried to pass some laws and very little amended the Health Protection Act, the Social Security Act, but the same thing as the Doctor's Chamber Act. At the same time, the government opposed it. How? Simply from the governing structure, they have passed new laws on medical chambers. So, you didn't want to go into reform. Mr. Batic, if you don't know what a doctor's chamber is, I'll say it now. The medical chamber is a chamber that protects the patient above all. If we want to put a patient in the center, then we can have a medical chamber. Mr. Koraq doesn't understand it already, and a man doesn't honestly get into my word and I have nothing to do with him. Mr. Batic, or Vlado, what have you tried to do on primary, secondary, therapeutic protection? Nothing. I have to say, as far as health reform is concerned, they haven't gotten away from before; only thanks to what the Resorial Vice President said, international humanitarian aid has gone all the way forward. But now there are some other things that are heard here, some loans are taken, soft, hard. There's no soft or hard credit, there's a loan that needs to be returned, and whether it's smartly funded or not. Gentlemen, no one here from the government in their report says what they will do to change health reform, in terms of primary, secondary and therapeutic protection. For the primary just to have some pamphlets or anti-smoking action. It's not the only primary health care. It is known that the primary health care must begin to run... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. There'll be plenty of time for me to talk about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34102	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34103	I thank you for not understanding anything. I, of course, am not a doctor. As you know, I didn't claim I did, and I explained the circumstances why I'm here defending health care. I must say, with great speed and ease, you have crossed the influence of Mr. Obren Joksimovic. In order to avoid any confusion, I, as well as the then resolute vice president, prepared a study called the effect of Mr Obren Joksimovic, and, if necessary, I can share it with the MPs. There will be an interesting reading about what he did while he was a minister, but the essence is in the next. Some of the things you said here aren't actually true. I have cited, and only this example will I repeat, that instruments for the radiation of malignant diseases for five oncological centres in Serbia (Sremska Kamenica, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Kladovo, Nis) are all fully purchased from the Republika Srpska budget, i.e., as you know, we have added one dinar to the price of tobacco, i.e. cigarettes, to smoking, and from these funds are bought the most modern devices, which are mainly not yet mounted, but are there, paid and should be done every month. That's the amount of 450 million dinars. When it comes to some so-called. With soft and hard credits, I have to say that this applies to those health loans that have a long so-called so-called. A period of rest, when payment doesn't start because healthcare is really specific. So I've given you two examples. The first, if 450m dinars are allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget, there will be opportunities to speak further. There's something else I want to remind you of. She didn't have DSS with Obrena Joksimovic, the DSS in the transitional government had a health minister, and the fact that you and her later split up politically, that's Mrs. Nada. I say she was in your party, and your client has been in charge of healthcare for a long time. It would be correct, when I am here in a position to defend my health, to look at your responsibility for today's defence of health care, not your minister who has left health care, his patients, and, by the way, while he was at the minister's post, his only job was to bring in DSS members for directors of leading health institutions in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34104	Replication rights, MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34105	Obviously, Mr. Zarko Korac was more concerned with Obreno Joksimovic than with what the government had entrusted him with, so he did nothing in the area of health. I'll remind you, you'll remember in June 2001, where the conclusions of the college, the completely informal body, about the purchase of drugs, were different from the government's conclusion. These are your conclusions. It's in my party and I'll deliver your signatures on one act and another tomorrow. Why the drug supply? Just to explain to Serbian citizens that the Health Protection Fund is the "enterprise" that has the most living assets, the most crafty capital, and that these are the money and medicines that are constantly being obtained, that this is a very lucrative job. When the government is discussed under the DSS initiative, we will also talk about how these funds are available, how these funds are available and how individuals in these institutions have relations with individual members of the government. We will talk about all of this when the time comes and I will show you the conclusions, where the conclusion of the informal body, the government's college, is contrary to the conclusion of the government that was brought to the initiative of Obren Joksimovic and which was put out of force, not the new conclusion of the government, which could have done so, but the conclusion of the College of the Government, the informal body, the narrow circle of people, in which you were and who you signed. So I'll deliver it to you tomorrow, if you don't believe it, then you'll see who's right and who's wrong. What I want to ask Mr Vlahovic - given that privatisation funds are treated as direct foreign investment - how much funds, outside of the privatisation of about a billion and 200m euros, there was a direct foreign investment this year. So, to turn down a billion and two hundred million for privatisation, how many, on other grounds, direct investment in Serbia? This is a real indicator of foreign investors' confidence in the Serbian state, primarily in legal security. So, aside from the billions and 200 million-euro privatisation funds, based on the sale of the tobacco industry and everyone else, how many direct investments were there? It will be a real criterion of the confidence of foreign investors in the Serbian economy, i.e. a criterion of legal certainty and trust in the Serbian state. So, outside of privatisation, how many direct investments were there in Serbia? When we hear that information, we will be able to talk about the trust in the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34106	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34107	Madam Chairman, you're putting me in an unequal position with these many ministers. I can't come in line to call them for whatever it takes, but I'm taking notes slowly, I'm looking for weak points in the presentation, and occasionally reminding them of which questions they need to answer. By listening to the minister like this, we all come to one conclusion: we've had a hard legacy, they're the last ones, I don't know how far back they go, and we can't do more than we've done. What we promised, it doesn't matter, the people forgot it, they'll justify it in some way or they won't, but it mostly all comes down to it. The Minister of Health has been gone for maybe seven or eight months, I don't know, you know better, but for a very long time, that portfolio has been covered by Mr. Korac, who can't really determine who killed the prime minister and that he's working on health at the same time. It's impossible that a man can achieve with so many obligations. As far as health care is concerned, you're defending something that's indefensible. We all know the health situation. If you're so happy with your health, why is it that everyone who has health problems, and you have them, like me and everyone else who sits here, let yourself go to VMA whenever you need something. But soon you won't be able to go to VMA either, because the VMA is already scheduled to be a NATO base, to treat all those from NATO bases you promised to be on the premises of this country. Therefore, health care has not reformed any of what you promised. There's no health care law, no health insurance, no doctor's office. It's all paid, and it's a big payoff, and you have to take it all away, if you want some intervention at the hospital, because there's no money. Why isn't there? Ask this Mr. Mijat Savic, who was the director of the Republic Health Protection Institute, this father-in-law of Mr. Chad, the Deputy Prime Minister, who probably thanks to a well-paid job, managed to send him and his daughter to Mikonos to rest a little this summer. There's the money. It's a health corruption, which is booming, and you've contributed to it, not solving the systemic health problem. The drugs are too expensive, the citizens can't buy basic drugs and it's all in the system: whoever has to live, who doesn't have to die. Where's that minimum protection of the population from the disease, I don't know. If it's humane or it's a complete dehumanization of health care, let the citizens judge themselves. But meet once in the waiting room, to see a doctor and hear what the citizens think. I don't think they're health workers. They're never guilty. It is always the government's responsibility for the situation in a particular area, to ensure conditions, to have what to work with and to be rewarded as they should be rewarded. Of course, all of those who ask for a favor, or who ask for their return from the budget, have given what they have in their pockets in order to have adequate health care. I guess that chain wheel is nothing new, I guess it's something that's absolutely understandable and that's absolutely to expect. If I give you the money and pay you everything you asked of me as a citizen, I want to get from you, like the state, everything that belongs to me. If I don't win, I have to be unhappy. He's such a dissatisfied patient, he's such a dissatisfied doctor. That's why doctors and pharmacists strike you. I'm not even talking about health politicisation. All personnel have been changed, all directors, ever since you came to power, haven't worked. No matter how professional they were, they had to come to some of the new ones who were similar and who, according to one of your party deals, got some places. There is one public secret, say, that enrolment at the Faculty of Medicine in Nis, enrolment in studies, is two and a half thousand euros. Do we really need to let something like that get us into medical school? Not to talk about all those paid exams, and to be treated by all kinds of schizophrenics, who in this way, using different positions, have managed to reach some diplomas. If you think that's the way it's supposed to be protected, first of all, I'm talking about health care, and that's a phenomenon that exists in all colleges more or less, but health care is everything and how it interests us, then that's how it should stay. Secondly, Mr. Vlahovic comes out here as a spokesman for Minister Pitic, who is not presently here to convince us of something he cannot convince us of. He can't give us an answer where our new jobs are. If that foreign capital came, if we privatized so many businesses, where are our new jobs? I don't mind if the privatisation is done, that the transition goes on, that's something we stand for, but we don't mind you taking a cock in your pockets and the workers staying on the street. We're against it and we're against it. You can't tell me we have to be satisfied with the external trade deficit of 9,658,000 dinars. Here, I've recorded here, Minister of Trade, remember that, going to the Arab Emirates to meet with the businessmen, running a business delegation with them. There was no encounter with the businessmen in the Emirates at all, it was confirmed by the businessmen when they returned, and it turned out, according to their statements (if they lie, lie, and I) that Mr. Trade Minister went there to meet his, whether his pasture or his brother-in-law, I really don't know, you know better. The question is raised, and it is known, from where Mr Milosavljevic invested money in the Institute for Market Studies, and it is known that he bought some 40,000-euro stock there. "Recreaturs" is sold in Croatia, and the mediator is Mr. Milosavljevic. For that, I have information just received from the Serbian Tourist Organisation. They say they also finance the tourist trips of the minister and his wife. For the director of the organization, a certain Miss Milica Cubrilo, from Paris, friends, probably, Mr. Djelic, is brought in; she shares the cancellations as she wills, and, by the way, has no certified diploma, so the question arises how could the government put such a person on the job at all, if she does not have an adequate degree, adequate professional training. We've heard a lot about Mr. Milosavljevic's actions, who has a baby face, from this very tourist organization, which I wouldn't be presenting right now, without the paper and data to support it. I'd just ask -- how is it possible that all the hotels in Nis, starting with the Hotel Traveller and this tourist organization "The Traveler", were bought by one and the same man. Is it possible that the same one, some Nislija Sr. Ilic, who lives in America, bought the Traveller and all the hotels in Nis? Now you will explain to someone in Serbia that all of this is based on some market principles, that everything is equally accessible, and only certain people in your environment come up with huge wealth. That's what you can't convince anyone in Serbia, no matter how much data they bring here that can act confusingly. You're very well taught how to speak, but it won't be possible this time. There are a few more questions for the government that need to answer some of the questions that he's neglecting, from what I said in the exposé, which is that this government is having permanent affairs. Here, today she decided to fence herself from an affair. Like, Maria Raseta-Vukosavljevic is looking for a solution and now it's all over. The day after tomorrow, Minister Mihajlovic may recall seeking a resolution, or perhaps not, we don't know, he will assess himself, because of everything he is charged with and what he is likely to have a conflict of interest in what he is dealing with as a businessman and what he is doing as a police minister. It's just not clear to me how you never bring anything out on your own, so you don't come out here, so you say, we're asking for this minister's discharge because he's been doing it, but for the first time in public; journalists, opposition, or someone who was close to you recently, so he knew, he was going to do one thing with you, and he came up here, and then he came out to the public, so you're washing your hands around it, waiting for him to get a little dust down, and after a while, we agreed that the lady would get rid of it. This lady who received the medal, in her own time, from Milosevic, for restoration and development, thought she would also take advantage of this distinction and the minister's position to get to everything that she had come to, but, as you can see, when someone did so, it ended him. As the end has come to it, so will all of you come to an end, for you do not work according to the law and the Constitution, and do not work in the interests of this people. What all citizens are also pressuring is this organized crime that you haven't dealt with. He did make that courtroom, according to the Hague court's reputation, but it's not a deal with organised crime, and until Korac tells us what he came up with, until he makes his report public, we will accuse you of being involved in the murder of Zoran Djindjic. We're also asking you a very important question, because now you're being blackmailed by those who so far are a little bit of money and churches, at least in terms of loans, giving, and that's the American Senate. What are you going to do with these four army and police generals? How are you going to scout that painful wound now? Do you want to continue on the old principle, to co-operate unconditionally with The Hague tribunal, which means you are delivering Serbs to the UN tribunal, or are you going to stop it? And then, how are you going to explain to those others you delivered, why did you deliver them? How will you explain to the Sljivancan family that Colonel Sljivancanin had to go to The Hague without General Sreten Lukic had to and should not go to The Hague? These are the questions most interested in the citizens of Serbia and you answer those questions to us, not how many fish you catch, in which you say, which is how clean and similar. That's what we very well know, and that's what we're less interested in right now. When it comes to government, we're only interested in crucial things, what depends on every man's dignity, which is, above all, that he can work and that he can live on his work. And now, if someone comes out and says it's all your fault, the red -- the black coalition, well, the yellow one, let's just say once that you're going to do it all in yellow. Don't tell us anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34108	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34109	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have just come from the Committee of Resorts on which the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services report has been adopted for the past 1,000 days. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I can't believe you're writing lies in your magazine "The Great Serbia", you're reading those lies afterwards, and you still believe in them. That's totally amazing. First, I worked at the Institute for Market Research for 10 years and I didn't buy any shares, I got 172 shares free of charge in 1997 or 1998, and that's less than half the value of the Institute. The Institute bought Mr Miloje Kanjevac from the action fund and he is the majority owner of the Institute. I don't have any relations with him, and I have one action in any other company. As for the Emirates, you told this speaker this morning that we should turn to Belarus, Russia, Arab countries, China, and now you say - that we led a business delegation to the United Arab Emirates. It's the richest country in the world, and if we did, we did. Take a look at the external trade report with the Emirates last year and this year and look at the growth of this foreign trade. I can tell you that several companies are moving with export jobs to Emirate: it is also Hemofarm with its programme of medicines, it is "Simpo", with the water programme, and "Cables" from Jagodina, which also have some exports. And what you're saying is absolutely one lie. Whether the businessmen went to the pool or to the beach, that's their thing, I can't take care of it. As for the Serbian Tourist Organisation, two or three months ago the director of the Serbian Tourist Organisation was changed. At the head of the Serbian Tourist Organisation, Miss Milica Cubrilo, who worked in Paris, graduated from the university in Paris, mastered and completed her doctoral dissertation. The information that she doesn't have adequate school equipment is incorrect. Before that she worked for more than five years as a tourist guide and worked rally Paris - Dakar for VIP persons for several years. All qualifications have and do this job in the previous two months very good quality. Really, I can't believe once again that the lies you're telling and making public you're starting to believe too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34110	The word has the minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come forward with a reply to the presentation of Mr Mijailovic's honourable MP, and I wanted to inform him that I am not a minister of health but a minister of justice. Better ever than never to let Mr. Mihajlovic know after three years. But you mentioned Mr. Joksimovic. There is some connection between health care and justice, when it comes to Mr Joksimovic. In another parliament, he voted against withdrawing immunity from Milovana Bojic and prevented criminal proceedings from being conducted against him.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34112	Replication rights, MP Dejan Mihajlov, for mentioning Obren Joksimovic, former health minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34113	It's simply not true, but it's true that you are guarding Momchilo Perisic. With these lies about Obren Joksimovic, you cannot hide the truth that you did not vote to remove the immunity of Momcilo Perisic, who you claimed had nothing to do with giving confidential information, or spying on foreign diplomats. He said he would not call for immunity and that he would prove his claims before the court, then called for immunity without question, so you refused to remove that immunity in the Federal Assembly, and that is true by telling various lies about Obren Joksimovic you cannot conceal the story of Momcilo Perisic. If Bojic committed crimes, who removed his ban from his accounts to dispose of the funds, from his accounts in Switzerland; whoever lifted that ban and how the ban was lifted was not Obren Joksimovic. Obren Joksimovic is now to blame for everything, he has been in power for six months, and you are almost three years. What you did in two and a half years, where your strong laws, where these huge reforms are, are not Obren Joksimovic's fault for everything, as some former regimes and everything else will probably be wrong in advance for a hundred years. You can't, you're in charge for your three years, and you need to tell me what you've been doing for the last three years. We all know what we inherited on October 5th 2000, and we don't need to talk about it, that's the consequences, for us and for you to try to make it right and direct Serbia in one other direction, to make Serbia a modern democratic state, and after three years, you continue to say that you couldn't do anything about the former regime and for some Obren Joksimovic who was six months Minister of Health. What are we talking about here? There's one joke: the former director tells the new director - the first three months complains that there's nothing you can do about the former director, the next three months says you're in contact with the authorities, and the next three months, before you're replaced, take some credit. So do you, you continue to complain about all those former, Obren Joksimovic, and thus try to hide your unhappiness and incompetence. This can't simply be given an election, so let's finish and end this agony that you've brought Serbia to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34114	The word has the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zarko Korac, then Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34115	I expected to discuss the data that I presented prepared by the Ministry of Health, and Mr. Michael promised that there would be talks about it when his initiative to vote for mistrust, okay, then we'll talk about all these facts. Since one thing that is of great importance is mentioned here, and this is the case of former Minister of Health, Mr Bojic, only to inform you, since I was an MP of the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, that Mr Bojic was not taken away in the council, where there were 40 MPs (20 from Serbia and 20 from Montenegro), because of the continuing vote of the SNP of Montenegro; he was therefore not removed from immunity and, unfortunately, the Swiss court interrupted the procedure at that time, and then, unfortunately, he was able to dispose of it in his own account. But it's not of crucial importance, the moment, there are traces in court, and it's very important for us to establish the history of that account, who was paying him, and how the amount of a million Swiss francs appeared. In other words, the government tried to conduct a judicial dispute through our judiciary, that is, the prosecution. The request was sent to the Swiss court; just to inform you that Mr. Bojic has taken a very expensive Swiss lawyer who started a dispute with the Swiss justice ministry. The Swiss Justice Ministry is issuing a warrant, has to issue a warrant to the bank to release the account and, unfortunately, it is all stopped because three times, consistently three times at the request of our prosecutor's office, the Federal Assembly refused to remove Bojic's immunity. Otherwise, as far as I know, in the Council of Citizens in which he was then, as today (there are no more citizens today, it is a one-home Serbian-Montenegro Assembly), there indeed during the vote Obren Joksimovic voted against, but I am only talking about my council, about the SNP vote, there that immunity was not taken away.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34116	The word has the minister of economy and privatisation, Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever I go out for this pay phone, I won't miss the chance to remind you of the successes of your rule, because these are the invoices that we pay today, and refugees and displaced persons, and a devastated economy, thanks to ten years of wise politics, several sanctions, bombings and so on. There is also the issue of The Hague, gentlemen, which you have taken over with the Dayton Agreement, not invented by DOS or the Democratic Party, today we are only working in accordance with the agreement that you took over, and all the other treasures you left us in 2000, when DOS formed a new government. Therefore, it is important for citizens to understand the start of the DOS, the start of which was the new government, which was left to the new authorities to settle those debts both towards their own population and abroad, as the institutions were left, how effectively the working parliament was destroyed, and what has been done in the past three years. If you want from legislative activity, from the number of laws the government has proposed, you have heard, you have had the opportunity to hear from both you and the public that more than 130 laws have been passed by this Parliament. I do not believe that in the ten-year history of the previous parliament has passed so many laws. You heard how many new institutions were formed under such laws and you heard how many reform processes were launched. As a consequence, therefore, of the reform processes, above all in the economic transition, we had a total of more than 1,200,000 euros in direct investment in the past year. Of these 1,200,000, 650m euros are direct greenfield investments, and this second part belongs to privatisation. The figure of 1,200,000 is accidentally covered by the total privatisation revenue, which includes not only revenues from foreign customers, but also all other revenues made in the privatisation process. So if it were to combine how much investment, direct and those through privatisation, abroad and on the other hand, if that part of the privatisation income that was achieved not by foreign customers but by domestics were collected, the figure would be around two billion euros, and that is a direct incentive for our balance of payments. You know very well that the balance of payments is imbalanced, and that you have this imbalance in the wise policy of the 1990s, by destroying economic performance, you have justified it. In a liberal and open economy, in an economy where all administrative restrictions have been eliminated, in a situation where today you have in fact controlled only basic strategic products, which is electricity, bread and nothing more, so you have two strategic products under administrative control, in such a liberal situation there is no surprise at all from the trade deficit, because the economy is just recovering and it will only give results thanks to the processes. What's unimaginable is that in a situation where you had sanctions, so when a fly couldn't spring the border, in 1999 you made three billion dollars in a trade deficit. Explain to me what art you could have done when the borders were closed, and when the goods simply couldn't be imported legally. It is, among other things, the success of your policy and since you are behind this speaker the loudest, since you have the nerve here to discuss what the government has done for the past three years, I am telling you that the most important thing is for the citizens of our country to understand what a desolated country you have left behind after 10 years of your rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34118	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. We move to debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word is made by MP Branko Pavlovic. Five minutes is time for MPs who don't have a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34119	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I only have five minutes and therefore some views will be expressed with a little argument or perhaps just as opinions. The second thing, I won't be able to get as close as I can to the government's resources as I'd like. So I apologize in advance for both content and volume. I'll take my hearing to three points. One question is the government -- the previous regime. The second question is what was done and what could have been done. The third topic, which would be worth discussing, is whether any other government would have had more or less of a similar move to this one, how much is this maneuvering space and what can actually be done. It seems to me at the third point that it would be rational to have a debate at all. A lot, and in my opinion too, is said about the government's relationship -- the previous regime. The previous regime ended by shooting people in the head and throwing them into some caves on the French mountain. To boast that this government is better than the previous one for me, as someone who's from that winning group, is not acceptable, and now we don't analyze what would be worse than the previous government. So, let's finish this story with the previous government. The key thing for me is this analysis of what has been done and what could have been done and on several occasions it has often been said that it may not be enough and certainly not enough, but more or less can't be better. Now we're going to go dot by point and see what's better. First, let's take credit for it. So, opening up to the world, contacts with various international organisations, donations, favourable credit lines, etc. They are largely the result of October 5th and one of the world's positive attitudes towards the country, and that is the greatest credit for the citizens. So when you talk about the results, I'm not going so far as to say that anyone could do it. I'm not saying that, but it really needs to be dimensioned that in this the greatest credit is the citizens of Serbia, and then to see from there what it is that someone has contributed or has not contributed. I'm sorry Mr. Pitic isn't here, but I thought I'd get my word on Friday, but here's my turn. He talked about the results, about these economic relations with abroad. It includes the results of Mr. Labus and Mr. Dinkic. It is not the result of better professional practices not to distinguish where the contributions of other colleagues working there are. What could have been better? The deal with the London Club was to be concluded in the first run when an agreement was concluded with the Paris Club. In that part, I will not be wronged as Mr. Pitic, the very great responsibility is borne both by Mr. Labus and Mr. Dinkic. It's a fact, but now you're saying it doesn't matter, how we're gonna do it, the best moment is over. It could have been better. China, Russia, could all have ended in mid-2002. It's all too late and we got into trouble with those things. It could have been better. The third part, relations with neighbours, primarily with Croatia in terms of property. We have significant assets in Croatia above all, and we have not seriously achieved the parity relations of discussing these issues. The fourth thing, Mr. Prime Minister likes to say - about normal Serbia. We have made an initiative for normal Serbia without believing that what is on the agenda today is normal, but in agriculture we have been lifted from our sugar preferences. You're not going to tell me that the best thing to do is end the preferences, are you? You're not going to tell me - we did and no one could do it better and there's an extended sanction. So, it's serious about that. It's running out of time. Just briefly around Mr. Djelic, that resort. Those who were rich at the time of Milosevic remained rich today, and the obligations remained on us, on our children, on our grandchildren. That's not acceptable. That, I'm sorry, is not normal in the political sense of words. Who are these rich people? Those who were with Mr. Prime Minister for the interview are those who cannot remain rich after Milosevic and in the coming period. The second part of Mr. Djelic's game of luck. The state had to put the monopoly on gambling immediately in spring 2001 and thus lost its budget to over 600m euros today. So you're saying, it's demagogy now, that for various budget users, you can't, there's no way. I'm sorry, there was a lot of money left and it had to be taken. Time's up, I only have five minutes. We'll leave Mr. Vlahovic for another chance. Five minutes is awful little.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34120	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34121	Mr. Pavlovic will report for the replica and now I'm giving you three more minutes. Ninety percent of what you said is something I totally agree with. It's true that for the London Club the better time was a year and a few days ago. It is true that for negotiations with Russia and China the better time was a year and a few days ago. It is true that a year and a few days ago, the federal government, the Federal Ministry of Economic Relations and Foreign Affairs, the Federal Ministry of Finance, worked in that period. I was a silent witness to that. So that's when it was -- we'll see, we showed them, let them suffer, poker phases of the guy who's going to bluff, there's time, we have the Paris Club. It's a real situation. The moment the Serbian government could take over these jobs, and these jobs were taken over in March of this year, from then on we can measure what the Serbian government is, because this is the Serbian parliament that did in this field, and we now have it hard to fight with the London Club, one year and a half later, to achieve conditions that are the same as with the Paris Club. We're not gonna give in, it's gonna be a tough fight, we're gonna make it. As far as China and Russia are concerned, Russia is ahead of completion, the total share, the Soviet debt -- the SFRY, the Serbian debt -- Russia. Some 50 million out of several hundred million remains undefined and you will not believe it depends on whether the Russian government falls, because the announcements that Russia's prime minister is ready to resign for some of their internal affairs and reasons. Otherwise, for Kinuva, I guarantee that part of the debt you are interested in, especially as a member of the Management Board or a member of the Board of Directors of the NIS, according to Sinohem, will be resolved. As for sugar and preferences, it is true that they were introduced when this authority came with the will of the citizens, I couldn't agree more. The biggest credit for that is citizens. We had a job as technical contractors, what the citizens wanted, and our job is to do it. What was done in these three years is what it could have been. It is true that the preferences were lifted after a few months, after two years. It is the same issue for the Federal Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad. I remember two government sessions, and there are records about it, so there's no reason to believe me, check it, it's public documents, at two sessions it was the agenda point and Mr. Labus said, no, there's nothing there, it's a story and it went into a feed car. I was the federal interior minister, and during that time this state returned to Interpol, signed read-mission agreements with all countries, police co-operation agreements, etc. So I have something to brag about. You'll have three minutes, there's one more thing you mentioned, and that's those who spoke to the prime minister. Think of those businessmen. Now I invite you to tell me, give me the businessmen who haven't spoken to me, who have been successful in any way measured. I didn't call those people. I'm not ashamed of sitting with them. It was their initiative, and it's mine to accept. These are the people who are 50% of the country's exports and more than 50% of the profits that are generated in this country. This government and I personally, anyone from this government will not do anything, nor has he done anything to keep them from any criminal or other responsibility. But no one launched any responsibility, no authorities, no MPs, no opposition. Everyone in the opposition was sitting with these people. Everyone in the current opposition gets or gets money from some of these people. All the independent media have commercials where these companies are, and then they're terrified that someone's seeing them. This government won't lie. Someone just said there's an operation that's more painful than disease, and there's anesthesia. We don't want to hold the people anesthesia. You were holding the people anesthesia. I'm talking about red and black, brown, yellow, or I don't know which coalition. You kept them in anesthesia, and we'll keep them in harsh reality, while she's cruel, with the intention of not being so cruel. We will not give up this attitude after this debate which, I see, becomes boring, nor after many other debates, and there will be a lot of debates in which the Democratic Party and other parties that are with us in the government will participate for the coming years, until Serbia becomes a country where everyone will be proud. You probably or most of you, I don't say that to the previous speaker but to others, you'll never be proud of Serbia, but that's your personal problem. There's nothing this government can do to help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34122	Right on line, MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34123	What do you obviously not understand, Mr. Prime Minister? Until you unearth this mechanism of Milosevic's authority, and it consists of the structure of state security, and today, BIA, while you are setting up for the first man of BIA, a man who for seven years was chief of staff at the time of Jovica Stanisic and when you have such a structure, and with us organized crime came from national security, he did not emerge spontaneously, when you have those who became rich in Milosevic's time, these are the three structures that keep this country in chains. And the fact that you don't understand that the key thing is to break this complex, so whoever's in charge of everyone, I agree, and I'd like it to be known that if someone thinks I'm being paid, let them come out and say it. What you said, in principle, is true, just doesn't apply to me and the Normal Serbia Initiative. So that's our cancer wound and what you're packing with them; and what you're saying -- there's no others, of course there isn't. From Milosevic's period, there can be no others but those who have made a fortune on our account, and you have to break it up in favour of the state, and then go into transition, privatisation processes, etc. It's a key difference and there's a huge fund of money that we're actually talking about. I said, Mr. Vlahovic, and I still have half the time, where there is a privatisation process in fact what is illegal. Where's the rigging? Here's the cement, when the cement store was sold. First of all, Mr. Vlahovic assures us that we must accept Milosevic's contract with "Lafarz", as it is a done deal and it will be terrible, credibility, remember everything he said. He says, well, okay, okay, let's go to the tender, it was on all the media, he says we're going to the tender and open up the privatisation of three cements and bring down the competition immediately. It says that only someone who is in the same type of production can participate. Why? The third thing, he says, must have its own production of over seven and a half million tons. When you open, how many of them are there? Eight. Unfortunately, Mr. Nenad Canak says two, and it's not two, it's eight, and then the debate is whether Nenad Canak knows or doesn't know. In the end, when you open all the offers, then you get for Beocinska cementar significantly less than Lafarg offered in a direct offer, before it even went to tender. The other thing is, and that's how much time I still have, "Sartid." How is it really manipulated at Sartide? A year ago, it's been sold that Sartida is one specific contract, at US Steel, I apologize, a specific contract for Sartid, which leaves him as manager, even though someone else buys it. Of course no one else will buy it when he's the manager. Then, eventually, it's sold out of hand and it's said -- that privatisation has nothing to do with it; and the whole government took pictures and proved to stand, like the government, behind the process. In fact, they end the competition, in the abolished competition, citizens lose over $100 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34124	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34125	... and compare it with other items and you'll see how much difference there is between us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34126	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34127	I answer to an MP who was now speaking, and to the public. You suggest that everything be destroyed and then we create a new one. That, Mr. Pavlovic, is very nice, only it's impossible. What in between? What will a million and a half pensioners and a million unemployed and everyone else do? Can you get me a candidate for BIA chief? Is it going to be someone who's from the NGO, who's from ballet school or who's, I don't know, the first citizen to come here? Everywhere in the world, in transition countries, there remained people who were from those services, only it was proven that they were not involved in any dirty activities. The other things you're talking about, the privatisation, and tomorrow Vlahovic will tell you more, but just to tell you, if it were for the cementist to be privatized by anyone, not just anyone who deals with that activity, it's the perfect place to launder money, Mr. Pavlovic. It's the perfect place to launder money. That's why there's no privatization of these big companies, except for those who are already doing it, who are not a money launderer, but are companies that can further develop the entire company. Third thing, about Sartide. First, that contract doesn't exist, which you said. Who took the picture with whom? Well, you took pictures next to the Democratic Party, so that doesn't mean anything to you. So, let's just let whoever's taking the picture. That kind of contract you're talking about doesn't exist, there's not even 80% of what you just said as an attempt to be facts. US Steel Serbia is the only company from the world interested in continuing production at Sartide. She bought "Sartid" through the bankruptcy process, with which the Serbian government has no direct connection. With Sartida, the Serbian government wants to have a lot of connections, because there are several thousand people there to work. They will work by respecting all the regulations that this assembly and the Serbian government have brought in to employ these facilities. I'd like you to have the right to a replica tomorrow and Mr. Vlahovic to give you an even wider explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34128	The word has a minister for the economy and privatisation of Mr Vlahovic. Five minutes, not now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34129	It is very popular that privatisation in this country is done by anyone and sometimes brings up a whole series of false facts, i.e. facts that absolutely do not stand. As for the privatisation of the Beocinski cement factory, I responsibly argue that we have entered a very conscious definition of this necessary condition from the quantity of production for all those participating in the tender privatisation of Beocin. There is no example in the country, in central Europe, that someone who is not a strategic partner in the cement industry came along and later developed. They made that mistake in Bulgaria, Romania, and then the state bought cement from private owners, financial investors, to resell them to strategic partners. In the whole region, including Turkey, there are only financial investors in Turkey who own cement. Therefore, the division of the market between strategic partners in Central Europe is more than evident and any other attempt to privatise would give us catastrophic results. Secondly, there was never an offer called "Lafarja" that was better than the one we received in the tender privatisation. Whoever has such an offer or contract, an offer with guarantees, for investments, come here for a pay phone and let him publicly show it, but, I repeat, not a promise, not an investment by principle of my mother's investment, but a bank guarantee for a defined investment programme. It absolutely doesn't exist. It's a story that's been launched here in this assembly and that all MPs or most of them, without ever checking it out, repeatedly convincing one lie, of course it becomes true at one point. I invite you to show that kind of paper. The offer we received for the privatisation of Beocinski cement factory is significantly higher, and I said that two days ago, than the one Lafarg was willing to pay at the moment when it was negotiated directly while someone else was sitting in the Ministry of Privatisation. As for Sartida, Sartid was on fire in February 2002, when the bank consortium decided no longer to finance Sartida's trade capital. By the way, the consortium of banks concluded a contract with Sartida in 1998 and it would be interesting to see under what conditions the contract was concluded, what amount of money was obtained by the consortium of banks and why the contract was extended several days before the introduction of new sanctions in 1998. That would be interesting to see. Let's see how profitable this job was for Sartid and how much for those who funded it. Why did he break the contract? Because the Serbian government, the ministry has not agreed to pay on the other hand the costs of some consulting firm, which will be selected by a consortium of banks, and there is absolutely no guarantee why these studies are being conducted. Because of the many problems that existed in Sartid, and when he merged Jugometal with Sartida, and everyone or most of you knows what I'm talking about, in February, no strategic partner wanted to invest a single dinar in Sartid. The time when the US Steel decided to finance trade capital through this famous fasilites management of the accommodation or management agreement and the time when it decided to finance the trade capital through the conversion of the puzzles, that time, for Sartid, there was a rescue. The story of the state taking over Sartide's debts, because USSteel came in for 25 million or I don't know how much, bought in a bankruptcy procedure, is an empty story. Who paid those debts to Sartida before that? You can hear that in public, too. Therefore, US Steel is welcome in a business strategic partner for our country and what is very important for us but in Sartid today, at the rate of capacity utilisation of 500,000 tonnes per year, and should be two million, working two and a half times as many workers as necessary, and that is what the government has done to keep all 9,000 workers in their jobs and to be employed despite the fact that the number of workers is not needed. It's a social concern for workers, it's an ironing of social costs in privatisation and transition and 250 million social programme prices; it's our social concern for employees, not an empty story that needs to be done like this, not by pulling one and the same chewing gum without doing anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-03-0.u34130	We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please determine if we have a quorum to work with. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Stanko Kovacevic, Branislav Pomorički, Marijan Risticevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Kasa Jožef. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL FOR THE PUBLICATION OF NON-OPERATION THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (continuation) Right to replication, MP Zarko Obradović.
