ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33063	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it seems to me that Mr. Djelic has become a custom to flee from this assembly, after having been told the truth, without the arguments of the SRS MPs that he is wrong. The assembly continued working past the decision yesterday, but well, it seems to me that a man likes to take the last picture after this pay phone during the working day. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, I can say that it is a law that has been introduced exclusively in the interests of some lobbyes in the country and exclusively for the campaign currently leading DOS to allegedly release certain products and excises. And if it were a campaign, it only serves one example, these excises on most of the products you've introduced yourself. For example, you've introduced it to the kitchen salt, so now you're cutting it off. I don't understand what it is and why you've been excised on something, when you're now removing it in this bill. The SRS, when the Excise Act was on the agenda, gave amendments to free the kitchen salt from paying the excise tax. What's at least surprising is a list of products that release excises. Mr Djelic said the wine is free from paying excise duty because the government of the Republic of Serbia has a programme to improve vineyarding, to sow new wells, and that is why the excise on wine should be abolished. Then, on gold, which in any case is a luxurious commodity, with the claim that it is supported by the Mining-Topier Basen Bor and Majdanpek, and yet, at the very least, strangely, because the excise is not paid by mines, but by the end consumers of these products. Finally, he did not explain why fur releases excises, given that the other day we had a law on amendments and amendments to the Tax System Act, so you even stated that there was an impossible form of compensation between the taxpayer and the state. It tells me that you've already received apartments from the state, which you've received through compensation, and now you need money, and that's why taxes can only be paid, and in order to buy money you can buy as much as possible, you've decided to release such items from the excise payments. When it comes to excise duties, which Mr. Minister explains, to be applied as of 1 January 2005, and later as of 1 January 2010, it is certain that he will no longer be a finance and economy minister. Such excise changes have been exclusively made for the purpose of the tobacco lobby. We know who's in that tobacco lobby, it's Stanko Subotić, called Cana Frog, there's Peconi, and under their pressure one of these laws is now on the agenda, to make it cheaper and more favourable to buy domestic tobacco factories. There are elements of protection, at least at first, between domestic and foreign cigarettes, so that a cigarette from imports is paid ten times the excise duty. However, it is later equalised in 2010, so both domestic and foreign cigarettes have five dinar excises per pack of 20 pieces of cigarettes. Mr. Minister still says, that's for the purpose of making foreign license cigarettes in our country. I don't see any reason why anyone will accept that they produce cigarettes in our country when the excise duty is completely even for cigarettes produced in the country and produced abroad, but exclusively for the tobacco lobby that deals with the import of cigarettes. So much for cigarettes. When it comes to customs law, it seems to me that no one will or at least avoid saying that customs, first of all, is the protection mechanism of the domestic industry, and only then the original revenue of a country's budget. Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, when he explained the Action Plan for Harmonization of Serbia-Montenegro's relations here, has erupted so much that justice has been achieved by Montenegrins in agreement with him, and these rates are applied under this new customs law, he even said he will no longer protect the domestic industry that must be financed from the budget, i.e. the budget is being touched, such as the Agricultural Machine Industry. Then, no more customs regulations to protect the textile industry, which is basically more expensive than foreign imports. In this way, in any case, he has done great damage to the domestic economy. What can be said to bother us most with radicals, is that there has been no harmonisation of the tax rates on agricultural products between Serbia and Montenegro, arguing that Montenegro is extremely dependent on imports of agricultural products and should therefore not pay customs. Well, if anyone comes to their senses, it can be concluded that it's pure nonsense. Montenegro does not have to pay any customs on agricultural products if they come from Serbia. However, our agriculture is now unprotected because of this attitude of government, DOS and their representatives. There is no mechanism and there is no protection that agricultural products imported into Montenegro from other countries are not found on the domestic market without customs duties. There's no effective protection. The question arises, as Mr Djelic said - are we obliged to listen to the European Union directives, the Government of Montenegro directives or to act and lead the country in line with the interests of our citizens, businesses and industry? This way, in any case, will lead to certain consequences for the work of the domestic economy, and domestic economy is the only one that can provide a stable source of income for both the Republic of Serbia's budget and a stable standard of living for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33064	The word is from the People's Messenger Zivanko Radovanchev. The next person registered for the word is MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33065	The Honorable Presidency, honourable Members of the People, I would like, first of all, to express my dissatisfaction with the way and designed hides, not to use the expression of a prank, in the process of setting the agenda for this session and, rather, the time to inform MPs of the term of holding this session, with probably one single goal -- to make it impossible for MPs to try to amend the draft of this law. Regardless of this premeditated innocuousness and "hurry," I still think this high house is a serious place to play children's games, such as hide-and-seek, etc. Now something about the Customs Code Proposal. The customs law of each, including our countries, belongs to the category of economic laws for which both economic operators, individuals and states are interested. The adoption of such a law, without a public debate previously conducted, would not be acceptable, given the vast number of entities participating in the customs procedure. Therefore, in the SPS, we believe that it would be best to postpone its adoption, to withdraw the law from the procedure, and at that time, within the framework of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, to carry out an appropriate broad debate and then prepare a new, better proposal for customs law. The proposal for the withdrawal of customs law is based on the following facts: the customs law is excessive, containing 410 members. Certain norms in it are unspeakable and imprecise. This is also confirmed by the fact that the law provides for as much as 45 powers for the adoption of sublegal acts: for the Government of the Republic of Serbia as 32, for the Ministry of Finance and Economy six, for the Director of Customs Administration seven. The adoption of these sub-legislative acts, which more fully and precisely define certain provisions, practically extends the customs law to about 200 new members, making it more complex and more difficult for a large law to further complicate the procedure. In addition to the fact that sublegislative acts create uncertainty in dealing with abroad because of the possibility of frequent changes, it is also an assumption that customs law is not the right way to regulate the matter. The proposed text of the law consists of two particularly separate continents, which do not correspond to the very name of the law itself. In the text of the customs law governing the customs territory, customs goods, customs controls and controls, customs privileges, customs value, customs procedure, import, export and transit of goods, which is the basic task of the law, the text of the customs service law, which processes the special substance which should, as so far, be the matter of the special law. That it is accurately confirmed by the fact that the provisions of Articles 410 which determine the entry into force of the customs law, in a way that the provisions of Articles 1 to 251 and the provisions of Articles 396 to 398 and 399 to 406 enter into force on 1 January 2004, while the provisions of Articles 252 to 329, which are governed by the customs service, shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of publication of the customs law in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". With those provisions in Articles 252 to 329 or a complete ninth part, it unduly burdened such a large text of this law. Since we MPs were not in a position to propose amendments to the bill alone, I will take advantage of the opportunity to make very concrete remarks in principle to several members, to which I intend to submit amendments. In Article 1, I had the intention to intervene with the amendment and I felt it necessary to delete the positions 2 and 3 governing the administration of customs and the organisation of the operation and management of customs administration. Those provisions should be an integral part of the law governing the customs service. I also intended to submit an amendment to Article 194, where I was going to suggest that two new points 2) and 3 be added after point 1). Point 2) - that new equipment has been released from the JVI section to the JVIII customs tariff, other than passenger cars imported by non-manufactured natural persons and used in the areas of industry and mining, agriculture and fisheries, water production and construction, traffic and connections, whose individual value is at least 10,000 euros in dinar equivalent. The proposed supplement creates a level playing field for imports of equipment based on the roles of a foreign person and of domestic persons who themselves import such equipment, which they buy abroad by means of own funds or through a loan, by exempting domestic persons from the duty on imports of only new equipment and in the event that the value of individual equipment exceeds 10,000 euros. Given the condition that such equipment is not produced in the country, the domestic industry is not threatened and this protection is prescribed. In this way, the modernisation of domestic economy, higher employment and a prerequisite for increasing exports is ensured. Also, in Article 194(3) - equipment imported by domestic persons other than natural persons to complete equipment to be carried out abroad, i.e. equipment to be exported as a part of a domestic person abroad. That point 3 provides conditions for more favourable imports of equipment, which domestic persons, other than natural persons, purchase abroad, and is used to complete equipment or as a role of domestic persons abroad. On the basis of concrete remarks, in agreement with this, I propose that the adoption of the law be postponed and the law withdrawn from the procedure, that the previous debate be conducted and concrete proposals be made, with respect for the economic situation in the country. Under three, that on the basis of the proposals and suggestions received, according to the debate, the law is made clear and easier to apply. Reduce the power given in the law by at least one half, and in order to fully define certain provisions and to exclude from the text of the law a provision from Article 252 to Article 329, that is the complete ninth part, making the law even clearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33066	National MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, and then MP Zoran Krasic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33067	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, in my presentation of more time, I will dedicate the draft law on amendments to the Act on Excises, and the second part of the time will be used by an authorised representative of the Party of Serbian Unity, who will discuss the customs law. The Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group sees no reason why the Amendments and Supplements Act on Excises was put on the agenda by emergency procedure. From these amendments to the law, from the reasoning of the motionor, why the law is put in an emergency procedure, there is really no compelling reason why this law should be considered by an urgent procedure. What does the bill change? There's an excise on the salt that's been lifted. I would like to remind you, honourable Members of the People, that we from the Party of Serbian Unity, along with some other parliamentary groups, and even when adopting the basic text of this law, have asked for an amendment to, among other things, put them in a position not to pay excise tax on this product. At that time, the Ministry of Finance explained that the sea, for the reasons mentioned above, was not convincing, but you adopted it. So now, after a year or two of applying this law, you must have realized that human food salt is not to be paid for excise duty, and I see that you are proposing it, and we welcome it in front of the Serbian Unity Party. However, we cannot accept your proposal to lift the excise duty on luxury products. I guess it's the pursuit of every tax policy in any country, the serious state, and we tend to be a serious state, to take taxes and excise taxes from those who have more. Therefore, if someone is willing to buy and has money to buy luxury products, let's say in the People's Dictionary "luxury", they should also pay the excise on luxury products. For these reasons, we do not see a valid explanation that the excise duty on luxury products should be abolished. The particular question, and I will devote most of the time to this, is that the promoter is seeking and proposing two additions to regulate the marketing of cigarettes, i.e. tobacco products. It is very interesting that this ministry is now, in mid-2003, predicting excise policy and excise measures on cigarettes that will be in traffic in 2005, 2006 to 2010. We ask one question from the Serbian Unity Party, quite logically in our opinion, why such an excise policy, when it comes to cigarettes, is not foreseen for 2004. The logical explanation is very clear. It is that Vlasi does not remember that two of Serbia's largest tobacco factories will be privatised by the end of this year and at the latest in 2004. One is even the largest in the Balkans. It's a Nis or DIN tobacco factory, the second is a tobacco factory in Vranje or DIV. This way, when there is privatisation of these two factories and when a foreign partner starts producing licensed cigarettes in these private factories, they will automatically have a more favourable treatment since 2005 and continue with smokers, or customers, because it will be cheaper. In this way one healthy competition is wanted to be eliminated, so that whoever imports foreign cigarettes of the same brand, whether it is "marlboro", "memfis", "ronhil", etc., will not be listed, will be in a more unfavourable position than the manufacturer of licensed cigarettes, and I am afraid that in these factories of this cigarette will just pack and place a stamp of the domestic producer. Automaticly, this way, customers who need to know that now, when they have to buy these two tobacco factories, will be put in a more favourable position. This is the only explanation why in this way, in mid-2003, it was possible to know how much excise duty would be on a pack of cigarettes in 2005 and beyond. The matter is very clear and the ministry should admit it publicly here that it is nothing else. On the other hand, the question arises as to why a single excise duty is being introduced, when it comes to domestic dinar cigarettes, or two, for all types of tobacco, or cigarettes, or even for those currently costing 20 and 22 dinars and those currently costing 40, etc. I don't think there are any domestic cigarettes more expensive than 40 dinars right now. Is it logical that a smoker, or buyer, pays the same excise on a product worth 20 dinars and a product worth 40 dinars? There's absolutely no way to explain it. It is also not clear in Article 40b in point 2 which says: "The retail price set out in Article 1 of this Article is determined by the manufacturer, i.e. the importer of cigarettes". And that's clear. But in the following point, he says, "Selling cigarettes at retail prices that are different from those determined by the manufacturer, or the importer is not allowed." If it is known, ladies and gentlemen, that today they are being used by a cigarette manufacturer from 12% to 15% according to the first large buyer, and if there are retail facilities, is it logical that he cannot sell these cigarettes under the determined price? Here's an example: if "classic 100s" costs 40 dinars today, if the first one in a chain has five dinars on it, why is he not able to sell 38 dinars if it's worth it? This law forbids him, this member. I understand that you said it couldn't be sold over the prices that were maximumed by the importer, or by the manufacturer, but it's cemented here that it can't sell below that price. There's absolutely no excuse. There are customers, large buyers, who have the opportunity to get what's called the so-called customers. bonus rebate, because it will pay for the annual production of a product and thus will receive a special discount from the tobacco factory, not from 15, but from 18%, etc. We wanted, from the Party of Serbian Unity, to amend this text, because it's no longer worth fixing these texts, because when you draw something, you simply won't accept what's logical. From what is stated, we from the Party of Serbian Unity cannot support this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, although we welcome that you have finally come to realize that we, too, are from the Party of Serbian Unity, as well as MPs of other parties, who asked two years ago not to be taxed, or that there is no excise on this product, that you finally propose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33068	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33069	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and ask the National Assembly to resolve the situation caused by the breach of the Rules of Procedure by bringing the situation into order, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly session, held on 15 July 2003, concerns the use of an electronic voting and voting system when deciding on a proposed decision on the resolution of three members of the Broadcasting Council. We have provided a copy of the report on electronic voting and in this column, where it stands -- MPs who did not vote, there are the names of Serbian Radical Party MPs, who were not even present in the hall at the time of the vote. So, for example, Dr Branislav Blažić, Branislav Vakić, Slobodan Janjic, Milorad Mirčić, Vitomir Plužarevic, when there was a vote on Radenovic. As for the vote on the candidate for the decision concerning Cvetkovic, Branislav Blažic, Branislav Vakic, Slobodan Janjic, Milorad Mircic, Vitomir Plužarevic was registered. With the third candidate, there is a little more, Veroljub Arsic, Branislav Blažić, Branislav Vakić, Slobodan Janjic, Milorad Mircic, Vitomir Plužarevic. This is proof that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been carried out, as Article 116 requires me to read it: "The Members of Parliament are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the O.R. by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to log out when leaving the O.R. For a MP who uses the identification cards of another MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the President of the National Assembly proposes a move away from the session, and the vote in which the abuse was carried out will be annulled and immediate access to identification and re-voting. "Article 117: "People's MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them as they leave the National Assembly Hall. "Article 117: "If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves it in the MP's unit, which is next to it, his identification card, the National Assembly Service will immediately deliver that card to the Secretary of the National Assembly. The card will be returned to the MP upon entering the O.R. "Someone has abused... (President: three minutes. I have another injury, may I?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33070	He can't. People's MP Krasic, I have every basis for punishing you by the Rules of Procedure for disrespecting the Assembly because you have committed two violations of the Rules of Procedure. You are voicing a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for a session that has been concluded and such a statement of violation of the Rules of Procedure is not possible. Given the great knowledge of the rights you show for the pay phone, it's surprising that you don't know how to say it. Secondly, you claim to have a document to prove it. You also know that the subject of such a member's injury is the subject of a session of the Administrative Board. So, please, with full right, when you correct the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Second injury, please. National MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president, Serbian Radical Party MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33071	I hope your answer and my dissatisfaction with that answer implies that this is being declared by the Administrative Committee. (President: No. ) Then I would ask you to ask this question to the Administrative Committee, as I would ask you to understand that there is another injury. We pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure a few days ago, and it was said that the Committee would handle it. It's been three days, the board hasn't solved it. It's probably also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and don't be angry if I make a mistake sometime. Just to remind you, a session held on March 18th gave a disciplinary measure of distance to Tomislav Nikolic over something that was done on February 14th. So, a measure was given at one session due to events that took place a month and a half before, while Tomislav Nikolic participated and worked on two sessions. But to get back to this third injury that there's room to talk about. In the third injury, I've been strictly holding on to your attitude since the day before yesterday. Yesterday we had a chance to see, about 19.45 hours, the electronic system showed that the quorum had fallen, that there were 70 and some MPs in the O.R. The minister was at the pay phone, the man was talking. When it was 20.00 hours, the president of the National Assembly warned the minister that it should be interrupted. He kept talking. It's that situation, like with Mark Culibrk, the day before that. You warned him nicely that the quorum had fallen, that he could do it again, because as the president said yesterday - we strictly stick to the decision. When it was proposed to interrupt the session 20.00 hours ago, it was said - I can't, there's a Parliament decision. So it can't be interrupted before eight, but it can't last more than eight. I'd like to ask you, since I'm guessing what the answer will be, and for these two injuries I've caused, to inform the Administrative Board, so if he can plead as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33072	The board of directors held a session yesterday and you will receive a report. Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Addressing the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia during yesterday's session, in the event that there is an electronic registered quorum or not, it is up to the chairman's decision and if the chairman decided it is appropriate for the minister to complete his presentation to the elected MPs, it is her decision. To be thrown out of the bench, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly assumes a warning and a warning to the MPs. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, for a pass, a warning. National MP Stamenkovic, a warning to throw out of the bench. National MP Radovanovic, a warning to throw out of the bench and breach. National MP Stevan Kesejic, a warning to throw out of the National Assembly bench. So there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure and application remains. If the National Assembly is in a mood, we are obliged to provide Mr. Minister, Bozidar Djelic, for the next 35 minutes to address the MPs, during today's day, during which time is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. It's at the end of the debate in particular. So we're going back to work. National MP Dragan Ljubojevic, followed by MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speaking of the Minister, where is our minister today? Does he see any wounds from the overnight duel with his former friend, the governor of the National Bank, Mladjan Dinkic, or is he making up some other reform law, a happy law for the state and the people of Serbia? As for this law that we have on the agenda today, it is indeed incorrect from the callers of this session of the National Assembly, and from the motionary who certainly agreed with the President of the National Assembly, which at 19:00 or 20.00 p.m. on Friday put this law on the agenda and convened a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, leaving only a few hours for MPs to write and submit amendments to the proposed text of the law. In fact, on Monday, or Tuesday, at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we were informed about the customs law, only sometime during the day, when it was accompanied by electronic media, or news on the electronic media, as far as the law itself is concerned, the law of 410 members, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the MPs, was explained by the minister in nine points here. Is it possible that nine reform points have been developed in 410 members and what has been repeated many times in the National Assembly, i.e. we have an opportunity for the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come to a textbook on customs, not customs law, because the law must be short, clear, precise, that it does not leave here an opportunity for broad interpretations and, as this law has left, to create some 45 sublaws. This law is due to the agreement of two governments, or some action plan on harmonising economic relations. That's what it was called. A few weeks ago, you adopted him at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and he denied all pre-election promises that DOS representatives made when they went to the 2000 elections, that they would bring relations with the authorities in Montenegro and that what happened would not happen to Montenegro to pay any single dinar into the federal state budget, and now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We warned that it was impossible to reach an agreement with the authorities in Montenegro, that they did not actually want to. This law is the best indicator and the best evidence that this agreement was not, that this agreement is not possible and that we, in fact, have no common state or community at that federal level, or between Serbia and Montenegro, do not have, if we do not have a single customs law, which will in a unique way treat imports and exports of goods to this single market. In fact, we do not have a single state, and Milo Djukanovic has only succeeded thanks to DOS to legalise everything he has done since 1997 and to create a space and opportunity for the Serbian state, i.e. Serbian citizens, to the extent that the Constitutional Charter, the so-called state union of Serbia-Montenegro, is in place, to finance the path towards an independent Montenegro. In one of the points of this reasoning, the minister tells us that this law will allow the implementation of checks throughout Serbia's territory and sets an example for sugar. This so far customs law has not been able to carry out checks on the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and has cited sugar as an example, and how good will and desire it was by the current government to get rid of so-called. The sugar affair, best testimony, is that under the pressure of the authorities of the previous customs administration, Vladan Begovic, precisely because he brought out some information in public only that it was not all clear, i.e. that the abuse was related to the sugar affair, i.e. the export of sugar to the European Union, had to resign. This is the best example of what the Serbian government wants when it comes to customs, when it comes to reforming the customs system, when it comes to the country's relation to individuals, who are obviously much more powerful than the state at the moment and who have the ability to control the state, or above all to control the government of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33074	The People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33075	Ms. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here at the end of this session came a very significant law, given that this area, the area of customs and customs policy, should be regulated in one way which, at this point, at least according to what is written under this law, should be in line with the basic requirements of the European Union Customs Law and with the basic definitions of the World Trade Organisation and the General Agreement on Customs and Trade, known as GAT. I don't want to say anything about the bill's proposal, given that everything we said when basic laws were passed in the field of tax policy and finance at that time was not acceptable to the minister and the government, and later on, they confirmed and accepted those views. That is why I expect that several amendments and adjustments will be made to the application of this on customs duties, and I think that at that moment we will probably get the conditions to correct this text, which we have received from 410 members through the amendments, and I do not know how many sides we have to regulate this area in the way that it should be brought into line with all the requirements of the European Union and of the world trade and customs organisations. I'm saying this for the reason that after six months, we have re-amending the Excise Act and last time, there has been an emergency procedure of changing the Transport Tax Act, and I'm really once again pointing to the criticism of the Minister and the Government of what is our tax and excise policy that we are changing and adapting every three, four, five, six months. As the lobby is curved, the government jumps both tax and excise policy adapts the impact of these lobbies, so that they are not attacked and probably replaced. I don't think it goes in favour of the government and the finance minister what's written in the explanation of the amendments and the supplementation of the Excise Act, that the proposed legislation is gradually and in advance brought into line with the legal solutions in Montenegro. I particularly point out this, and the minister has told us so far here that we are in line with our excise and tax policy and all other legal acts in the area of finance with the basic requirements of the European Union. Is it possible for one minister to talk one thing and the other one to work? I think that at this point conditions are being created that no one can trust him anymore in the good intentions of what these legal solutions and amendments are provided for, given that when this law was passed, we said that they should be freed and that our people say - since the raven blacked out, on salt, bread and basic life supplies are not paid taxes, no excise duty has been paid. We have another effect that this law frees wine and luxury products. You forgot that every deficit in the budget and through every tax policy, the main burden goes to smokers, alcoholics and drivers. It's always a blow to these three categories of tax policy and to fill the gaps in the budget. Indeed in this review of what we have received, a brief review and a summary, I do not understand anything when it is said - the excise duty on domestic wine, salt, gold and a few smaller products is abolished. How small, by which the smaller, by volume, by traffic, are the shoes a smaller product? If they are children, they are burdened with sales taxes, and if they are from crocodile and snake skin or skirt for girls to eight, then she is burdened, and the lady who has a few thousand euros to buy a bugatu coat and then strike for a small salary, she will be exempt from excise duties. Whether or not the salt will be cheap, it won't. In the previous two years, the minister accepted solutions to be released both in 2002 and in 2003. I want to ask the Minister, down the Drina, every trafficker and every sugar store for 1,050 to 1,250 dinars, and since it's in the shops? Who's taking off the cock on that? The second question, I wanted to lead him, and I keep warning him that we're going to one place near Belgrade, hundreds of miles away, to see the white-day wing during working hours, while the legal function holders are playing football or playing basketball, from the Saturday- and New-Sad registration truck in the chocolate-based cookies box, I don't know what it's called, what it's called. And he wouldn't listen to me just to see, he didn't have to take any action. What kind of policy we are conducting here, and I really cannot accept this law, because I do not agree with its basic procedure for the release of excise duties on luxury products, and at this point it is not known how much budget resources will be reduced, it is said that the financial effects due to the abolition of excise duty on salt, luxury products and natural wines will not significantly affect budget revenues, even by 2010, taking into account the reduction of the grey economy. By 2010, at least two regular governments will change. It's just like when I say -- here, in 2010 with three packs of cigarettes, I'm going to smoke two boxes, one of which is going to be a classic 100s, and the other one is going to be a "lord." Are you going to believe that I'm going to live there, and am I even going to be able to buy cigarettes? So, I think one of these members of the 6th, although we haven't suggested eradicating it, should be standing in a memorandum of budget and tax policy for the next two, three or five years, and not right now. You think you'll rule forever, make commitments to someone else. The next government will certainly not be under the influence of the tobacco mafia, probably under someone else's influence, it will change excise duties and taxes and comply with those requirements. I think at this point the best solution is through a memorandum of budget, tax and excise policy, you can implement it by 2010 and determine that it is in the memorandum, not in the basic text of a system law on excise duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33076	The word has been given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join the objections of my predecessors who put in the way and convene this session and the agenda itself for this session. It is simply incomprehensible that a legal proposal of 400 members is included in the agenda in this way to avoid amendments to that text, so that the customs law has no amendment, and that of any MP, and it is likely, as such, to come again very quickly to this hall to change and to be complemented. It is also a dispute to bring together the debate on the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises and Customs Laws, it is controversial to shorten the debate on amendments to three minutes, and it is all disputed, but it is your goal and your desire to end it as soon as possible, so that you can go on your annual vacations, and how the people will be following these laws, it remains to be seen. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, I'll just say briefly that these amendments and additions, which are probably at least the fifth in a row since the DOS came to power, speak in matters of your policy from today to tomorrow. We pointed out two and a half years ago that excises on basic life supplies should not be introduced, and you were stubbornly doing it, and now you've come to your senses to end it. As far as the Customs Code is concerned, several objections I managed to make. I will say in this short time, in order to leave time for my colleagues who should also speak, namely, when it comes to the objectives that are to be achieved by this law, it stands in the light of the fact that this law is in the function of monitoring modern flows of goods and capital, open market economies and the next liberalisation of the transport of goods and services on the one hand, and on the other hand provides protection of domestic production, its technical and technological development, etc. Gentlemen of the DOS, gentlemen of power, you've been in power for two and a half years, and for these two and a half years, domestic production has been destroyed and gone. Well, at least tell me who you are here listening to... (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: Don't embarrass me.) Please note...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33078	People's MP, I give a warning of being thrown out of the bench by Parliamentarian Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33079	... What is the structure of Serbia's trade today, and what have you found? A few days ago, I heard your data, that only one third of the exports were covered by imports. Have you found such a relationship and has the situation worsened since you arrived at power so far and is the tendency to worsen that relationship between imports and exports? The next thing is Article 18. Article 18 refers to goods which are not subject to customs duty, so a list of eight points is listed here where products that are not subject to customs duty are spoken of. It is absurd that there are no raw materials and repromations not produced in Serbia, so they are subject to customs payments, it is absurd that there is no seed material, which means that it too is subject to customs payment. I think we need to think about it, so in a way, technically or how it is already possible to intervene to change it, at least for those products, which are intended to be exported, to free customs producers from importing raw materials and repromated for their production at least that much. The following remark is to Article 20. This member shall be prescribed to suspend the obligation to pay import duties in the event of destruction of goods while under customs supervision. My question is who's going to make up for the damage that happens, if there's a waste of goods that's easily broken, because it's about food goods, and if it's some procedural mistakes, the mistakes of an administration that isn't the owner's fault. The only way to get rid of this is to pay the customs fees, but his damage is not mentioned anywhere. Article 35 says - other than customs duties charged at rates and established by customs tariffs, customs authorities may also charge other import duties, such as taxes and excise duties, etc. I ask you, what about the government of Serbia's regulation on oil imports, which is anti-constitutional, which has been in effect for more than two years, whether it will be abolished after the adoption of this law. This regulation is unconstitutional because it has disabled a large number, not all, to be clear, a large number of importers, legal, registered, people who have companies registered for importing oil products, made their business and existence impossible, approved, or left NIS that possibility, but in my knowledge besides NIS and some privates close to the government imports oil and oil derivatives. So, after the adoption of this law, will that change and that regulation will finally be abolished. The scope, i.e. Articles 77 to 82, refers to time limits for goods under customs supervision. I think these deadlines are too long and 45-day deadlines, etc., but it's too long from the point of view of the kind of goods that it's about. In the end, I'll finish, members of 84th and 85th, and they're talking about the destruction of the goods, and yet there's a dispute over the damage to the owner. This must be maintained in Articles 249 to 251 where the sale of seized goods is mentioned and sold through public bidding, but Article 250 states that goods can be sold without public bidding, or transferred without compensation, without compensation to state and other institutions, and besides, it stands, as for other justifiable purposes, without listing all the reasons that you have stated, stands further, as well as other legitimate purposes. Gentlemen, you've been arresting Michael Kertes for similar things, questioning, writing felttones about him in the paper. I'm just warning you that this member has left the possibility of abuse to you, and that it will probably be in your case that someone will have to answer tomorrow and for this reason, that some other government will come and interrogate both your customs executives and write about you too.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33080	The People's MP Dusan Cvetkovic has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33081	The President-in-Office, honourable parliamentary cards, distinguished fellow MPs, gives me special satisfaction that on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group - Slobodan Milosevic, I have the honour to speak in front of twice as many MPs as the minister had the opportunity to speak a few words about amending the excise law. We are considering this issue for the fifth time during this term, and the question is how many times will we go back to the questions of change in excise duties, given that I am almost certain that at the moment of the sale of Beopetrol, we will be forced to discuss the excise duties on oil and oil products again, and I am sure that at the moment when one of the major companies, Coca-Cola, Pepsi car, enters auctions of certain companies in our country, that there will be another discussion about the excise duties on these non-alcoholic products, as I am also sure, if the next day "Nestle" appears in this country, that we will also discuss the issue of coffee-related excises. The strangest and worst of all, in what we're doing today with the change of excise duties for tobacco, not the smaller and not the bigger problem, I think that we didn't discuss excises to help in fact the domestic tobacco industry, but now that the tobacco industry is ahead of sale and when it has to move into big hands, we're discussing tobacco excise duties, counting on the fact that we have to provide big tobacco producers in the world with a subsidized comfort in this country and provide them with a much bigger profit than they have in their own countries. I'm prepared, as an MP, to go into the privatisation process and accept that act. However, I must tell the ministry gentlemen that I am not prepared to accept what has already been accepted and that here I am playing a puppet, whose name the government has already made a decision and has sent directly to potential buyers of the tobacco industry, although these excise changes have not yet passed the assembly procedure. In spite of last year's and this year's conclusions, the government will issue a third license for the production of cigarettes on 17 June this year, however, adopted a session of the Moratorium Government to issue a third licence for the production of cigarettes and thus denied all assurances and what Minister Djelic also said at the adoption of the tobacco law. The government also provided guarantees on June 26th that there will be no subsequent taxation of privatisation entities on the basis of unscheduled applications for tax obligations. Finally, the weirder and sadder, at the same session of June 26th, fellow MPs and chairman, the government has guaranteed a change in the excise regime in terms of more favourable treatment of license cigarettes, and we are discussing it today on July 17th or 18th. It is clear that as soon as the government has provided guarantees regarding the change of excise duties for cigarettes, before this law comes before the MPs and enters the assembly procedure, it has proved who is the government in this country and that the government is older than the Assembly. However, I don't know how deadlines broke, as the government said at that session on June 26th that excise policy would apply from January 1st, 2004. The proposal before us is January 1st, 2005. I wonder if we won't have government intervention during this session that they've made a mistake, so they can change this decision and the law that we're adopting today, or they'll bring us back to the fact that this law should apply when it comes to cigarettes since 1 January 2004. Dear MPs, respected parliamentary cards, when it is known that the main part of the other amendments in this excise law were in fact subject to the SPS amendment in almost all parts, except when it comes to luxury products, the question is seriously raised, why are the Government's proposals now, when they were unacceptable for many reasons at the time: that it violates and annuls the transparency of the system; and this will cause chain reactions; and that nowhere in Europe, etc. Now that all this and these reasons do not exist and they can pass past it today and make these legal changes over excise duties. This conclusion brings me to the fact that I must remind you, fellow MPs. You remember last week we passed an amendment to the law on the extension of rivers to report assets of more than 20 million dinars. Tomorrow or the day after that in the press, it appeared that Minister Djelic had reported assets of more than 20 million dinars. If the press is wrong, I apologize to Mr. Secretary. But it seems to me that the law has been changed precisely because the minister and the strong ministers mentioned today in these duels between the G17 and the DS are due to report property, which is why this deadline has been extended for four months. That's why I think that behind what we're doing today with excises, there might be something going on and that the next day, when we adopt these excises, we really don't see why there's been a change in these excises. However, if we return to the government's explanation for the elimination of excise duties on luxury products, they will significantly narrow down the gray market, and that the existence of excise duties on luxury products will represent an inefficient fiscal instrument, and that only administration with these products costs very much and gives little effects. Indeed, this is an explanation, I would say, both hypocritically and insolently and offensively for the citizens of Serbia. The abolition of excise duties on luxury products seems to be the only interest of the government, its officials, the layer of Serbia's financial and economic oligarchy and even the ruling DOS, distributed by large boards receiving 50,000 to 60,000 dinars per month. Only if Minister Djelic and the Serbian government, based on their overall knowledge of the situation in Serbia and society, are they not convinced that the suspension of excise duties on luxury products will be of exceptional importance for one million unemployed, for pensioners who have been reduced by 5.6% by three months, for students who have received enormous increases in tuition and accommodation conditions. With this change in government excise duties, I would say, in the best possible way, it shows that it really cares about the general interest of citizens, but only of rich citizens. My countrymen from Letexa, Rula, agriculture, were just damaged by gold and silver jewelry, precious stones, products of crocodile skin, pumpkins of two to three thousand euros, were burdened with excise duties, so that's all that bothered them to buy them. By abolishing the excise duties on luxury products, to repeat, it should be possible for the ruling to buy for the whole family, with that 40% reduction, shoes or bag of crocodile skin, for the same money, because what it would look like for mom and dad to have, and a daughter who studies, say, in Paris and there to be crushed, there is no crocodile purse. She needs to, of course, be able to do away with the excise duty. That I do not continue to grieve for these poor people and do not bring in too much patheticness, so that I look like Minister Djelic from that duel, in the end, to say to God that after almost three years, the government has finally realized that a multiple amendments to the SPS regarding the abolition of excise duties on natural and medical wines should be accepted. However, while the government was deaf to our proposals, much negative happened in the production of grapes and in that part of agriculture, in the processing of grapes, in the production of wine, so that vineyarding came to the lowest branches. It seems to me that the suspension of excise duties so late, regardless of how heartily we are for them to be abolished today, will not help our farmers and our winemaking industry very much. That is why I think it will take many years for this branch to return to its place, to take its place on the lost market, which Macedonia and Montenegro have taken. For a move like this, ending up, I have to say that my Leskians would say, "She remembered Mara when she was under."
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33082	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a short period of time, I am not in a position to give an explanation and to plead on many of the provisions of this law. In short, I would say that this law is very far-reaching and that it contains 410 members, which absolutely was no need at all. Of the 200 members, this law should no longer be contained. Just take into account that labour relations here are projected norms in as many as 40 members, and we know that the Labour Act has regulated how this area should be arranged. Secondly, many sublaws had to be regulated by many of the areas set out in this bill. As for those basic remarks, I, as a lawyer with 35 years of experience, should be talking about this for at least five hours to answer all the questions raised in this bill. But for a short time, I can't do it on this occasion. I'd just say something about provisions relating to the release of natural persons from import duties. Farmers under more favourable conditions should also be treated here, even if they are used, under more favourable conditions to be imported and to be kind of benefited during this period of time. As far as the powers of directors and officials are concerned, these powers are specifically contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and contrary to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure does not provide for the possibility of deprivement of the freedom of the person at border crossings and that those powers fall within the jurisdiction of the customs authorities, nor of the Director, nor of customs officials. It doesn't predict either the possibility of a search of the premises or a search of the face. This is something that has been regulated in these basic laws and falls under the exclusive jurisdiction of the police and the court. As for the conduct of the administrative procedure, the administrative procedure in both the first and second stages, it is seen here that the customs authorities run it. They themselves prescribe rules of conduct and rules of procedure, which is again contrary to the Constitution and other laws. I don't think there's a time limit in which certain items are to be dealt with, and it's known that goods are being taken away, cars, technical goods, money, foreign exchanges, etc., and it takes years for citizens to recover when they're unfounded. As for the administrative dispute, there is also no deadline, which should be, and there is not a word about corruption in customs. You, ladies and gentlemen, are very familiar with the most corruption in the past, there is no word here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33084	The People's Messenger Golub Rajic has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33085	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the agenda of the National Assembly at this extraordinary session in a united debate, has taken down the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act under the urgent procedure and the proposal for customs law, with which this democratic authority has taken down urgency to prevent MPs from submitting amendments, which is not the first time to do so. It's already become a practice. With the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which we are discussing by emergency procedure, this parliament is facing happiness for the fourth or fifth time. The reason for its urgency is that the proposed measures should create conditions for the equal fight against competition of domestic excise products producers in relation to producers from the environment and that the non-administering of this law by emergency procedure would have adverse consequences for domestic producers of those excise products for which the suspension of excise duty is proposed. That doesn't stand. The adverse consequences have long been caused by domestic producers through the current application of the Excise Act, especially by wine producers. For example, Negotina's "Krajinavino" was in a rather difficult economic situation and that is because so far, for every liter of landscape wines in the name of excise duty in the republican budget, they have paid 18.00 dinars. If this is adopted and the wine excise is abolished, it is likely that producers will lower the price of wine and will be more accessible to citizens, as well as with the price of more competitive wines from Montenegro, especially from Macedonia and other wine producers from the environment. By abolishing the excise on salt, one fiscal instrument that has not even been applied in the last two years ceases to apply. It's okay, while for the introduction of the excise duty on tobacco processing, on the day of the tax stamps, where the excise duty is different for domestic and import, the effects will only be seen, and I'm not very sure that this government has mechanisms to curb the gray market and budget revenues for the same year are realised in the planned amount. The Socialists are against the release of 20-30% of excise products. In our view, it is illogical for the government to deny these funds, contrary to the policy under which taxpayers should pay taxes and excise taxes according to their economic power. It is incomprehensible to us that today, when a large number of people and families in Serbia are barely making ends meet, very often without bread, when you have not accepted our amendments to free baby equipment taxes, children's food, shoes and clothing, as well as textbooks, you are now proposing that the excise tax be released from gold, silver, as well as fur and skin, which is absurd. Why don't those who have so much money for gold jewelry, pumpkins and other luxury pay taxes to the state and thus fill the budget, not introduce some other taxes, and this rich elite exempts it from it. The question is whether, in order to pass this law, the real reasons are to further reduce the size of the grey economy and establish the principles of certainty as one of the most important qualities of tax policy. More important reasons are, of course, the harmonisation of excise duties with Montenegro, with European Union standards and standards of the World Trade Organisation. You sent us a proposal of customs law in an unfair way, where we could not propose amendments, and this is a very large and very significant law, which is to replace the Customs Law of 1992, and to comply with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, to comply with the European Union customs regulations and to allow for a swift and efficient customs procedure. Today he's not hiding that the laws are written elsewhere. We only translate, which is probably the case with this law, which contains 12 parts, determines the jurisdiction of the Customs and other bodies Administration, and should be an integral part of the monitoring of contemporary flows of goods and capital, open market economies and the increasing liberalisation of trade in goods and services, on the one hand, while ensuring the protection of domestic production, its development and progress, as well as the equality of all stakeholders in goods transport, on the other. Customs are going into the budget, and they are being introduced as a protection to temporarily protect some production, until it is fully won, and later it is no longer needed. When it comes to foreign trade, it should be completely free and customs-free. For countries that strive towards the European Union, that is also the objective, at least when it comes to intra-Union trade. Trade with other countries is regulated by membership in the World Trade Organisation or otherwise, but the goal is the same and now the question is how quickly to pursue free trade. Serbia's economy is often said to fall even more if all customs duties were lifted towards the European Union, because Serbia's production, which today is not competitive, which is a serious problem and the question is whether it is good to use customs for these purposes, i.e. maintaining and improving the competitiveness of the economy. At the level of our entire economy, the lack of competitiveness is seen in a deficit in exchange for the world. If that's considered a problem, then you need to see the reality of the course of domestic currency. To see what the role of customs is, let us take an example of some arguments made during the harmonisation and harmonisation of Serbia-Montenegro's customs systems. It is said to be understandable that Montenegro has low customs duties, when it produces nothing and has nothing to protect. Serbia, it says, produces a lot of things, so it has nothing to protect. The tariff introduction argument is the incentive of domestic production, especially those that do not exist, where initial investments contain fixed costs, and the beginnings of some new production are not profitable. If there are no protections or customs duties, costs can be a major problem with this business and production can and may not begin. Here customs protection is one of the means to maintain production in the crop, while the production that already exists should not be protected. But what do we do when we don't have any production, and there's no investment? In the transition phase, it is very important to liberalise, if there is anything to protect and customs, and if Serbia-Montenegro is aiming to join the customs union with the European Union, which means removing all customs duties in trade with the Union, which is more difficult for other Balkan countries. It follows that the best combination is the accelerated liberalisation and integration of the market, which will say the elimination of customs and other barriers and course policies that take into account the competitiveness of the economy or at least the sustainability of its external position. Today, it is clear that the current trends in the trade balance and borrowing are unsustainable. It is difficult to fix what can be done by customs and by this customs law in general, which has been done with European experts and should enable the efficient organisation of the administration and implementation of the customs procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33086	The word has the People's Parliament of the Prophet Verica Radet, and then the People's Messenger Rajko Baralić. The time available for the parliamentary group is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33087	This so-called reform law does not have a "r" of reform unless under reforms you mean protecting the richest layer of citizens and the discretionary rights of customs officers that will produce a series of abuses. The government says the law is done in co-operation with European experts, enables efficient administration organisation and implementation of the customs procedure. I don't see what's new here compared to the existing law, except that this proposal was done by European experts, and this existing law was done by Serbian experts. I don't understand why you DOS are constantly trying to show us something that has long been known and recognized as something you invented, as something new, like last night, Mrs. Comic who said that the Assembly has now become the place to decide. It's like it's been on a tram ever since. The government says this is a key harmonisation law between Serbia and Montenegro and European standards. Is that the harmonisation from Chad's action plan? It is a poor government and is a poor country where Ceda Jovanovic is making an action plan in agreement with the current government in Montenegro, and based on the action plan in Montenegro, not a single kilo of flour can be bought now. This harmonisation, your so-called harmonisation, will lead to the definitive decay of this so-called. Serbia-Montenegro communities. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, when Zabunovic was breaking into Customs with Batic's warriors, armed hackers and scorpions, and then he promised what he would do, which criminals he would catch, to expose to the public. None of it was, except that there were really affairs, but affairs in the period of the reach of power. I mean customs affairs. The sugar affair, from which you pulled MK Komertz, and a small child in Serbia knows that he is in charge of the affair, and therefore Mr. Begovic disappeared from Customs overnight. The Canet Frog affair, cigarette smuggling, Canet Frog ties to the top of Serbian and Montenegrin authorities, has been discovered. Minister Djelic says more cigarettes, smuggled cigarettes, are not sold on the street on cardboard boxes. It's true, now they're sold on wooden crates and sold in kiosks and shops. I won't tell you who they are, because you probably don't know, but some people at the top of your power know where it's possible and who it's working with.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33088	The word is given by MP Rajko Baralic, the last registered speaker. Time is at the disposal of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group for two minutes, and after that, time is available to authorised representatives and presidents of parliamentary groups. The People's Messenger Milos Lukic came forward, so the MP Srdjan Petrovic and the MP Zoran Krasic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33089	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted only two minutes left. I submitted the amendment when we first discussed excise duties, that there was no excise on salt, because in Serbia there was symbolic significance, there was something quite different compared to other products of broad consumption. At the time, I made an argument as to why I thought it was important, that it was more important that there was no excise on salt than would be a financial effect. It's not appreciated. We had a formal excise that didn't apply and today we formally abolish something that didn't exist. So it's a little meek of these events, about the salt. It is no shame to accept the opposition MP's amendment. We had a chance when Mrs. Liver Dacin also submitted the amendment to, I think, police detention. Then you said that it is not possible to accept it, when the European Union says so, then we all meet again and we appreciate it with a few months of delay and with considerable political damage. I have no intention of further elaborated this. I didn't want to talk about customs. I just want to remind once again of all the distinguished colleagues and colleagues should always be guided by the argument when proposing and interpreting the amendment, not by the bearer. If we set that thing up like that, we'd best do the job we're in parliament for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33090	The word has been issued by MP Milos Lukic, an authorised representative of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group. After him, MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33091	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to customs law, we of the Party of Serbian Unity have several very principled objections, and the first and foremost is that we have received this law in the way that it has been done and that there has been no opportunity to influence its content in any way. There's no reason to do it this way. I'll remind you that there are such social games as "three matches" or "three cards" and it's lost a lot. I don't know if anyone in these games won. Anyone who starts such a game must be left without money and other precious things. Therefore, the promoter still has a chance to withdraw this bill from the procedure and to leave the possibility of bringing this law into the Assembly through a normal debate. Some of you may not know, but yesterday there was no quorum in the federal assembly to adopt a harmonisation plan with Montenegro, which means that the ruling majority does not have any particular interest in adopting it. I will only mention that the Montenegrins were present, but that DOS did not have a dozen MPs. All those important people from the parliamentary majority have been on their own threatening assignments since this. It should be honest and admit that we don't want, after all, like the Montenegrins, to really harmonize these relations. They'll be harmonized in a third way. That's the way the media always finds out first. It's going to be harmonized by a directive on the side. A law that has over 400 members, and that 250 MPs do not succeed in submitting any amendments to it, is something that must be the reason for this law to be withdrawn from the procedure. I'll remind you of one more fact. In the federal assembly, while the SRJ was on the agenda, the ruling majority, I repeat once again the ruling majority then submitted 126 amendments to the legal text. The amendments were not some content that should cause the Assembly to squander time, but were made up in principle, and these amendments were mainly driven from the Chamber of Commerce, from the Association of Businessmen, and from those people who deal with the economy, and this law and as far as they are concerned, and who tang them. There are many reasons, and I believe that the ruling majority can make one effort and eventually, at the vote itself, help not to pass this law, but to enter the regular procedure. As for the legal void, which is going to happen in the meantime, you know that under the Constitutional Charter we can, in fact, come to the adoption of a new law to apply the current federal law and that nothing is so urgent or important that, in this way, to say, it would be brought to the Assembly. The importance of customs law is still far beyond what is happening here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33092	The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33093	The respected chairman, respected counterparts, for the Democratic Party of Serbia, the customs law is acceptable, primarily because it follows a course advocated by the DSS, which is European integration, which speeds up Serbia-Montenegro's European integration. Secondly, even more important for today's moment is the preservation and promotion of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. As far as relations with the European Union are concerned, this law is good because we are gradually in line with the institutions that have been given in the customs law of the European Union, and also with some standards, above all from the World Trade Organisation's views and some of the principles of the General Agreement on Trade and Customs. The next more important aspect of this law is the aspect of the common state, i.e. this law practically follows one of the dynamics given by the Belgrade Agreement, later the Constitutional Charter and the Action Plan. We also have a feasibility study before us, so in that sense this law has its place. It is not good that the ruling majority of the Serbian Parliament and the ruling majority of the Serbia-Montenegro Joint State Assembly are not genuinely interested in the preservation of the common state. You can see that for a number of reasons. It is current that what happened yesterday, mentioned by counterpart Lukic, was that there was not enough majority to put customs legislation, or action plan in the debate, even though it was given by emergency procedure, which is not good. The action plan could have been in the United States Assembly before. Also, something that is very indicative, which is not good and shows that the Serbian government has no genuine desire to work towards the preservation of the common state, which is something that Minister Djelic mentioned yesterday. If you remember, he said during his debate that the joint office of the Serbian Customs Administration and the Montenegrin Customs Administration will not be revived soon. Before that, we had in the action plan a clearly highlighted European Union wish that this instrument, that the office and the institution should live, because we need a unique customs area and because of a feasibility study that will work in the autumn, perhaps something earlier, and Minister Djelic said that the office would not be revived. What does that mean? Does this mean that we do not do what the European Union requires of us, something that is certainly the interest of Serbia, Serbia's citizens, which is a unique area of Serbia-Montenegro. How many times has it been said that Serbia-Montenegro has separate customs duties? The fact is that the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter provide for separate customs areas, but it is very clear that the European Union is not satisfied with this and the European Union's desire for Serbia-Montenegro to have a single customs area has been very clearly demonstrated. Whether at the moment, when the government in Montenegro, Montenegro's prime minister has clear problems because of its customs independence, which did not only endanger Serbia's relations with Montenegro, but rather clearly threatened the European Union, whether, in this way, Minister Djelic's words, he expressed some solidarity with the Serbian government with Montenegro's prime minister. Probably, but they'll probably have to pay for that solidarity together when they leave the government. It is clear what position Montenegro is in, so it is clear what its position is currently in relations with the European Union. The Democratic Party of Serbia has no illusion that customs law itself can solve what the current situation in Serbia is, and these are major economic problems, recession, lack of industrial production. Our economy is not competitive and it's completely clear. It is facing a painful process of increasing competitiveness, especially in relation to countries in the environment. This is already done through these agreements we have with neighbouring countries, but we also need to engage in global technological and financial flows. What the government needs, every government, and it's certainly going to have to do with several of the next governments, is to prevent all of the bad consequences that globalisation brings to small countries' economies, and so does our economies. The government itself acknowledges the situation in which our economy is, i.e. it is explicitly recognised by the ruling majority. An illustrating example is the interview of the President of the Chamber of Commerce given to "Politics" on Sunday, where it is clear that we do not have a strategy to extract our economy, a strategy to include our economy in world flows. The most illustrating example when it comes to finding on this market products that should not be competitive on this market, given our production of these same products, which are not my words, those are the words of MEP Vesenović, that are Macedonian and Slovenian milk. As regards the amendment and addition of the Excise Act, this law is also acceptable to the DSS for certain reasons similar to the reasons why we accept customs law, which are harmonisation with Montenegro and our gradual inclusion in the rules applicable in the European Union and in the World Trade Organisation. What is specifically given in this law is the abolition of excise duties and the modification of excise duties for certain product groups. As far as salt is concerned, it's quite clear, and I think there's a consensus there that should have been done before. As far as luxury goods are concerned, we have the view that it is a good thing that excise duties on luxury goods are lifted, because the fiscal effect of this suspension is likely to be higher, although the nominally charged excise duty itself will be nominally lower, but it will be greater to include luxury goods that have certainly been more gray than on the legal market so far. What's most interesting, or before that we also have an excise on wine. The domestic wine industry is in a catastrophic state and should have done so before. This measure may, if followed by some measures related to certain reliefs and related to the agrarian budget, we hope to encourage a completely dead wine industry and wine production in Serbia. The tobacco industry, that's why this law is passed by emergency procedure. It is fair of the minister to admit that it is related to the sale of the tobacco industry, for the upcoming privatisation of the Nis and the Vranje tobacco industry, although it is certain that this should have been done before, as it was also not allowed to be done by emergency procedure. We've had the adoption of tobacco laws, so there's plenty of room for these excises to be arranged in this way as they've been governed by this law before. One principle, which was first mentioned here, which unfortunately does not apply in our economy, in our economy, is the principle of business certainty. Our current situation gives domestic and foreign investors anything else but uncertainty. It is positive that in this law, at least in this part of the tobacco business, this certainty is done through this means of gradually equating first differentiation, and then gradually equating excise duties for domestic and imported tobacco products. However, what has singled out this industry and what that optimism, which Minister Djelic brings, is related to the sale of the tobacco industry to our market leader, i.e. the leader in the production of tobacco on the Southeast Erope market, is a second principle that we still have to agree that it is good, which is that this industry is dying, because its legal and easy dying, seen through this law, will nevertheless prevent the easy, not legal, dying of its consummations, so that we must also keep an account of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33094	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33095	At the beginning of the debate, a united debate on these laws, the Serbian Radical Party issued views on the Excise Law, and we now assess the need to say something about this customs law, which, according to the proposal's idea and idea, should be one full law, because it regulates the matter now present in two laws. It could be called code 011251396-Resistance. So if you vote for this bill today, it's his code. By order of the Resistance, something is regulated that was once in the Customs Service Act, and all of this will go to some later processing, which indicates that today was not necessary, because the existing customs law regulates it. As the house is made of foundation, so is the customs law, the customs tariff law is passed only after the law on foreign trade is passed. It's something elemental, some alphabet, but this has its second addition. In the course of last year alone, the Federal Assembly discussed it twice, and I think a law on SRJ's debt has been passed, which has been granted credit for modernising and improving the work of the customs service. They took the money. The Western Balkans, the Balkans and everything that surrounds us is under the European Union's special surveillance and personnel training. In practice, only those provisions relating to the functioning of the customs service remain in this customs law. Now you can see why the Resistance had to follow for a year and a half, to curb corruption, now I guess it's clear why customs have been on a little strike, more demonstrations than strikes for wages. There is probably a reason Beogovic was removed from the post of director of the Federal Customs Administration, although he was no better solution either, as he came after Zabunovic, after an armed entry into customs. Customs deserves a special place, customs policy also deserves a special place, if there's some reason for customs policy to protect something in this economic area, but today we can all realize there's nothing to protect ourselves here. You can't even protect car production, because it's almost gone. Why would the food industry be protected, it only works as essentially as possible, to say that something is doing, that something is moving in this country. All our balances are problematic, and when I say I mean power, which represents state and people, that's the government that represents state and people around here says that a group of people who meet occasionally to play small football would want to play big football and participate in the competition with the Star and the Partisan. We opened our market as a can and customs service should be just a service that records, though it is her business, but the whole customs policy comes down to that recording. There are no amendments for the simple reason it's impossible to fix something that won't even apply. These provisions of service will be applied that the new director of the Customs Administration could seduce some and, in his opinion, probably assume what order will be and who will be in that order first, but that is not the subject of this law. That's what other authorities are going to discuss, deal with. The important thing is that the customs service may well be dressed, it will also have computers, but nothing more significant will change than the two and a half years that have passed. And that's why it's illusory to submit amendments to something that's about to change. It's going to change the moment there's a conflict, and that's the personal interests of the people in the current government. Now, some things are written here that no one can absolutely believe, not even the one who dictated this, not even one MP in the National Assembly will be able to when he reads this, that's how it's going to be. For example, the transitional regime of the measure; the government, for example, commits itself to this, and says - if a foreign country does not deal with goods originating in Serbia or ships and other means of transport from Serbia as well as with goods, ships and other means of transport from other countries, the Government can prescribe that imports of goods from the country concerned are paid for additional customs duties. That's impossible with us. Can you imagine Djelic suggesting something like that? He proposed earlier in that first law that the most luxurious products would be released from excise duty, and he would rather cut his hand than suggest that an additional customs duty be imposed to protect our market and introduce a reciprocity measure towards another state that discriminates against our goods. What we can do towards the European Union, which is our goods so competitive, because other than mob business, nothing else is competitive. As for agricultural and food goods, or products, strategic goods, it's all in surplus. They have sugar in the European Union for the next five years, they don't know what they're going to do with sugar. These combinations that caused the affair, they're just mafia. They have nothing to do with balances, needs, etc. In the European Union, they are fighting for preferences, for stimulation and in which group they will be in, not to make a balance. Furthermore, Article 396 paragraph 2 speaks of seasonal rates, and further Article 397 - customs contingents, so as not to order further something that stands only to consume color when printing material. They could place 2,000 members, they could make all the recommendations and everything that is the World Trade Organisation and Rotari Club, because they are praised for holding the World Trade Organisation and for having 2,000 members, nothing will change. This customs law won't protect our customs territory, because we sold our market. There's everyone on our market but us. Here's the Mercator, so look who bought it, with the capital of the mafia in Europe, Croatian and Slovenian citizens buying our factories, some company from Iceland, Farmako, bought it and just signed the contract, it earned several million euros. How does the Customs Act protect us from it, which law can protect us from the conduct of power? There's no law. One law that can protect us, restore our dignity, give us some perspective, point us to a future, that's the law of the people. Give that law to the people, let them go to the elections, so let's hear what that law says, let's change this while there's still time, because if it comes to the head, and it's not on time, it can be really late.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33096	The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the SNS parliamentary group. Any of the other presidents, vice presidents or authorised representatives, come forward for a word? National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has no status that would allow the National Assembly to address him. He should consult his deputy president and business provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33097	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer to a few important questions for me that have not been treated here in this discussion and in this debate that has been conducted so far. First, I'd look at the short lines to a part of what's in the law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. When it comes to luxury goods, I think one part of domestic products should also have that treatment. It's about our quality, because this is obviously about goods from export. What's being made possible here? Here you can re-open some fri-shops under any form, privileged position and price of the goods on the domestic market, simply in certain areas such as furs, these famous furs, and we will be in a situation that all domestic producers on this plan simply will not have any good position, because their competitiveness will be on the domestic market almost nothing. We all said here, both from the authorities and from the opposition, that we have a serious problem with the import lobby. I think it is now directly possible for this import lobby to affect the markets even more, to strike the reserve, the basic and important, significant reserve, the foreign exchange, and to slowly pull it forward. I think this is definitely about that, and my warning is precisely for those very reasons, simply, let's not crash our own economy into the ground with these kind of criminal principles anymore. These principles have a system of protection for domestic production and for domestic producers. How this business tax year and fiscal year will end if the balance of payments and the total balance, the total exchange ratio will be even greater, or unfavourable in our favour. When it comes to customs law, unfortunately for me, I really didn't have much time, it's large and systemically, but I would refer to a few important details, in my opinion. We were at one of the earlier discussions, I'll remind you, discussing what it means to transport goods through Serbia. Serbia is spacious, trafficked in a place where there is a huge transit of goods, so billions of dollars are transported monthly through Serbia, billions of dollars and euros. We haven't established any control over this mode of operation. We have soft borders towards Republika Srpska, according to Montenegro, according to Kosovo, Macedonia, where other currency systems and other measured monetary units apply. Why are these monetary units set up there? One of the basic reasons is that the capital that financed this kind of thing is looking for a place to launder dirty money. It is one of the unfavourable facts, and no one can convince me that it is not one of the basic motives and reasons, not any approximation to the European Union or any European integration, but just those who gave it must be compensated for in some period. This law provides again in Article 18 that goods in transit are not subject to import duties across the customs territory. What does that mean? It means that the announced passage of goods through Serbia to Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croatia does not have to end there, but will be unloaded somewhere along the way. There is no system of protection, except for good regulation. How we want to join the European Union, when this does not apply as a rule in the European Union. They have perfect control and transportation of goods. It's just impossible, when you get out of that country, it comes back to you, and first you pay, and then you can only get out. When you get out, then you get your money back. Is it possible that we have no interest in establishing such control through this fiscal way, which I think is very important, and I think there is a huge amount of goods in the gray zone on the market, and even think that domestic producers in a certain way, financing exports to some of their businesses in Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, etc., are stopping goods in Serbia and avoiding payment of obligations. I think this is one of the more serious failures of this law, and I think we're going to have significant losses here. We will also disable professional services in customs authorities so that they can do something more serious on this plan. This way of hunting these smuggling goods, it's almost impossible, except for a random sample, a pattern that comes from some kind of face-to-face application or finding goods from a safe citizen. What I'm saying is, and I know that in the former law it was Article 17, I don't know what's going on with the import of military equipment and weapons. Is she freed or not? It's not. There's no release. I ask myself a question, earlier regulations stipulate that military equipment and weapons, imports into Serbia were freed. This involved importing trucks and vehicles and all other equipment and weapons. I don't know whose interest it is that we don't set it free, because here, and this is a very important question for me, and yet you're joking about this subject, I don't know what we want with our army. And whether we need that dedicated production sector in this country at all or we're going to fire it all so they don't do anything anymore. Then we'll import and pay our dues for something like that. It's a strategic matter of this law, one of the strategic things of this law, and it must contain liberation. Was anyone crazy? Is there no exemption in European legislation? Some have, and some don't, depending on how anyone treats his own protection. We are not members of any international organisation, nor are we a prospective member of any institution that will protect us on this basis. Is it possible that someone doesn't write this? I guess that's one of the basic reasons why we got into the procedure so quickly to talk about it and on the subject of this law. There are a number of elements, and it's important that we freed the printed media, that we freed everything and everything there, what we've freed here. Okay, this is all understood, that's fine, but I can't understand that importing military equipment and weapons into this country has not been released. That's an important question. Who even talked about it and who made a deal with whom? The European Union has not forbidden us, nor has anyone else to put into our law such a thing or this ruling majority does not need to do such a thing. I just can't believe this is a failure, and I can't believe it's even a coincidence, and I have the impression that this is one of the serious intentions of one of the strategic things and the most important things in this country being even more degraded. Now I'm going to take a brief look at the oath that's scheduled for customs, which should sign the oath when they become customs officers. It's all written here. It's just not written that they do their job fairly. He says like this, I swear to honor the Serbian Constitution and the laws, that I will safely and responsibly carry out the duties of a customs officer and that I will build and maintain the reputation of the Customs Administration. It doesn't say they should do it fairly. There are numerous examples and evidences of the self-will of customs officers at border crossings. Whether or not someone can joke about this, and I think it's an important word that was meant to stand in this part where moral obligation is required to do it honestly. I could say a lot more, and I only pointed out a few important details that matter to me and dropped. In principle, the law is comprehensive and has its depth, it has a whole, and without these details it really lacks several important and key elements, if we are a serious state, if we systematically look at all parts and the whole of the state union system Serbia-Montenegro. In my opinion, the element that the army was freed and the military equipment, here's Milk I'm ending up for you, it's very important, and it seems to me that it's even missed here, maybe someone did this on purpose, because we weren't able to write amendments to something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33098	If no one calls for a word from the representative, vice president or president of the parliamentary groups anymore, I will conclude a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act and the Customs Law proposal. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLACES ON ACCISATIONS (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Veroljub Arsic, Goran Cvetanović, Stevan Kesejić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Milorad Mirčić, Bojan Pajtic, together Marko Culibrk and Dragan Jovanovic, together with Golub Rajic and Rade Bajic and together with Živodarka Dacin and Ljubomir Mucic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33099	I would ask the chairman to explain to me why my amendment has not been accepted by the proposing representative, because we MPs have not received the government's opinion on the amendments tabled. So if the Government already does not respect that provision of the Rules of Procedure, do not read to us from that cliché that the Government, or the Proposer, has refused any amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33100	People's MP, I've read that the motionor's representative has refused the amendment. Members of the SRS Parliament Club, which is your legitimate and legal right, do not participate in the work of the Assembly committees. When a representative of the proposings refuses or accepts the amendment during the session of the Assembly Committee, then the chairman reads - a representative of the Proposer. If this happens at a cabinet session, then the president reads - the government has accepted or refused and you get the report. I would ask you to listen carefully when I read and what amendment and how any of the authorities responded to the submission of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33101	I think, however, if this government respects the National Assembly of Serbia as the highest legislative body, it should deliver its opinion to the MPs, not just that at committee meetings, the proposing representative rejects amendments. You know, so far, there have been several cases, as was the case in some previous laws, that the minister in charge did not consult exactly Minister Djelic and that is why some amendments of the SRS have not been accepted. But, well, it's your right. In my amendment, I asked to be a member of the 1st. It amends the bill by releasing, in Article 2 of the existing law, points 5 and 7 of the excise duty payment. In particular, this refers to eating salt and is already foreseen by these amendments and additions to the Law. I asked for even refreshing non-alcoholic drinks to be released from the payment of excise duty. In this article, the Proposer stated that point 8 of Article 2 was also released from excise duty. These are luxury products, and the luxury products include gold, fur products and non-domestic animals. The promoter also asked for natural wines, medical wines, and honey to be free of the payment of excise duties. I asked my amendment to erase it all. I still don't understand how releasing the excise on gold, which is exclusively luxury goods, will help our mines in Bor and Majdanpek. I also didn't get any explanation from a proposing representative, who isn't here right now, why gold and fur are being released. Accise, as an additional form of taxation, is added to goods which are essentially a luxury, i.e. the status and social position of an individual. In any case, both gold and crisis fall into that group. We got some explanation that the wines are being released because the government of the Republic of Serbia is developing vineyarding. I think that is the view of the government's representative at least cynical, because several times the SRS MPs asked their amendments to, say, diapers for babies to get rid of sales taxes, food for young people to free themselves from tax. I guess it's in the interest of this government and I guess this government's plan and programme is about increasing the birth rate in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. All these amendments by the proposing, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and Economy, have always been rejected. We are now being introduced a kind of tax exemption through excise duties on goods that have absolutely nothing to do with agriculture, nor with Natalie, nor with the standard of living of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. (President: three minutes. I don't think I've gone too far since you've warned me about the weather. The Assembly has made a decision to restrict time to three minutes for discussion in particular, however, along with that decision, a decision to work by 20.00 hours was made. Yesterday, the president of the National Assembly broke the decision to continue the debate until 8:12 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33102	Four minutes. People's MP, I thank you and warn you of the need for respect for the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33103	That part of the amendment relating to salt for human consumption does not need to be specifically explained, since after two years, the government realized that it should not be subject to taxation. I would only point to the second part of this amendment of the SRS parliamentary group, which refers to refreshing non-alcoholic beverages. In the past, the problem was how to provide funds for the budget and one of the sources was the tax paid for the refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, and the justification for the introduction of the tax was in fact, in addition to the lack of funds in the budget, that it was not such a mass consumption, and that it was also a product that was technically suitable for taxation and for one more quality control. Meanwhile, things have changed significantly, although the signs of change existed 30 to 40 years ago. We daily, but we keep going to a situation where we're going to provide all the quantities of drinking water in stores, not taps in our houses. That's, obviously, inevitability. The problem of water is global, and it's been pointed to for 50 years, Malten. We're going to get into a situation where we're taxing on something that's an existential need for a man. It would be the same thing as bringing the excise on our mother's milk, on bread, on the air. Probably our amendment won't be adopted because of the budget deficit and the need to provide funds through this product. But if, by the end of your term, you plan to change the Excise Act, bear in mind this fact: with all the risks that exist, a large number of manufacturers, fortunately and domestic producers of these goods, and a large number of privates, the question is under what conditions they work and what their products are, take care, take advantage of, if you change this, the first next chance that this, which will certainly be mother's milk, release the excise.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33104	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk and Dragan Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word on behalf of the amendment applicants? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33105	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I suggested that in Article 1. The bill erases the letter "I" and "8" so that the excise on luxury goods is not lifted. We believe that the explanation that the legislator put forward will not cause much damage to the budget and that the costs are much higher, only talks about the bodies that need to collect that excise. These are, above all, customs and tax authorities, and if they are unable to do so, they should improve the work of their authorities or replace them, not eliminate such a significant source of income. For a country like ours, which is in transition, around 10 to 15% of people have great wealth, 85% of people are quite poor. We think that these 10 - 15% people need to buy that luxury equipment and we see that by all walking zones, all the centers with the bars are mostly full of these goods. There are customers for the goods, while these other 85% are mostly supplied on sale and on flea markets. If that's true, we see that the most luxurious goods, the most expensive trips are immediately sold out and there's not enough room for everyone who's interested. It is, unfortunately, the situation that this 5% has a lot of money and that there is a need for that slave. This is what we think of as another victory for the import lobby, which wants to be freed by excises to get another part of the market where it's going to spend hard-earned foreign exchanges. That's why we're suggesting that no excise duty be lifted on luxury goods.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33106	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33107	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that really the parliamentary majority should think carefully about this amendment and accept it. Take, for example, Mr Djelic's argument that collecting excise duties on luxury goods is approximately not a issued income from the point of view of the republican budget. That's where the real problem is. Comrade Culibrk said that the smallest number of people can and can afford that goods we call luxurious, and therefore there's no point in getting rid of the obligation to pay for the excise. It seems to me that Mr Djelic also said that he was optimistic about the possible launch of production in Majdanpek and Bor, counting on the fact that if gold was released from excise duty, it would now be some kind of production impulse. But she's weak from that part. I don't think that optimism that he shows through reason simply doesn't stand, and there's no reason why we should, in particular, now favour those who, on the basis of profits or any other basis, will have the opportunity to buy and luxury products, and thus deny some other commitments that the Republic's budget can still finance. Nothing makes more sense than to accept this amendment. It doesn't get lost much, and it's in that part that's supposed to represent some small redundancy from the republican budget, but who's going to use those funds is going to mean a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33108	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Goran Cvetanović and the MPs Golub Rajic and Rada Bajic together submitted. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the justification for the adoption of this law says that the reasons for the urgency of the procedure are primarily to apply the proposed solutions as soon as possible, as well as to have adverse consequences for the domestic producers of those excise products for which the suspension of excise duty is proposed, and that the financial effects resulting from the abolition of excise duties on salt, luxury products and natural wines will not significantly affect budget revenues. Two years ago, I kept trying to convince Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic of the role of salt in the mental and physical state of every living creature, and that indeed this excise, which was brought at the time to pay two dinars per kilogram of salt, will not financially improve the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It was a little harder for him at the time to understand, but two years later, however, the representatives of the legislators of this law realized, even though at that time Serbian radicals suggested that no salt excise duty should be imposed, so now they did. In the amendment itself to Article 2. Serbian Radical Party has been given to effectively delete views from 2 to 6 in Article 8. First of all, it remains the first position, which is that the basis for calculating the excise duty makes up units of measures of liters, kilograms, piece, packets, etc. All this other stuff from item 2 to item 6 you have suggested to delete, which I absolutely do not think is appropriate, first of all, when it comes to products that are subject to the payment of excise duties no precaution is excessive. The invoiced and charged excise duty on a particular group and type of product significantly increases budget revenues, so it is understandable why the area needs to be explained in detail in the law. There must be no misunderstanding on which products are charged excise duties, what makes it the basis for the collection of excise duties, how it is charged and charged? Of course you need to be careful and moderate and in a different direction. To which products charge excise duty, which they do not charge, such as the example of salt. The solution so far is better, as more detailed is the area of collection and excise calculation. A solution that has so far narrowed the space for abuse and detailedly regulated the way in which the basis for excise duty is calculated. It's just amazing that what you brought in two years ago as a quality and a better solution than it was before, you've now abolished, and what we suggested two years ago, you've realized after a long period of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33110	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been given by the MP Rada Bajic, in the name of the applicants of the amendment, and by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33111	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, along with counterpart Golub Rajic, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 so that the member is deleted. In fact, Article 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises refers to Article 8 of the previous Law. This Article 2 states that the provisions of Articles 2 to 6 of Article 8 shall be deleted. This is about the previous amendment. We believe that releasing excise goods from luxury products is really unacceptable, because today, as you have heard, between 80 and 90% of people only survives, or is barely enough to feed their families, and those 10 or 15% who can separate themselves from buying a five thousand-mark coat, or the euro, or to buy gold and silver products, which also exceed the purchasing power of a huge population, should pay for that excise. Although we have already said in the adoption that the budget is tense, that many who depend on the budget items cannot obtain the funds they are scheduled to receive, then there is really no reasonable reason to lift excise duties on the edge of luxury production. This is another proof that MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and I must admit the other MPs, when they submit the amendment, are not going to collect political points, but are really going to fix the law as far as it can be fixed with amendments, and all in order to make it more bearable for citizens. When we suggested that the excise salt be lifted, that amendment was not accepted. When we suggested that sales tax is not working when it comes to children's products, children's food, children's shoes, school supplies, all of our mouths, we talk about how our birthright is small, how the white plague rules, we go deaf about amendments of MPs to opposition parties, so that perhaps in some alterations and additions, after six months or a year of acceptance. I've said several times that we shouldn't have brought amendments and additions to the law at all that we had accepted the amendments to the opposition. For this reason, I repeat, and I think that all of you who listen here will remember when it comes to voting day -- indeed, and we have brought that in a categorical manner, that after working 10-15 days or less, we will determine the day of voting when not even the one who submitted the amendment to which the member has submitted -- hopefully you will accept this, and I think that the Government should accept it, that at this point there are no conditions to release the luxury products of excise duty. I believe that you have really justifiably submitted this amendment, that it is not only for the benefit of the citizens, but also for the benefit of the budget and those of the beneficiaries who are dependent on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33112	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33113	Our amendment to Article 2. The bill is a legal and logical consequence of the first amendment, which we asked for to remain the obligation to pay the excise duty on luxury products. Respecting all the problems in the market and recording, monitoring of this traffic, collection, etc., we do not believe that there is a product where the material situation and the economic power of the individual are better pictured. The one who buys pumpkins, he does. Well, since he does, he needs to do more. We are still, in practice, in the field of taxation of final consumption and that makes sense, when we move to taxation based on added value, then there are some other rules, but when it comes to luxury products, probably not so contrary to the rules of these existing ones. Article 8 in paragraphs 2 to 2 shall regulate the establishment of a basis for the payment of excise duty in respect of luxury products. We practically suggest that this remains, because excise duty should be paid for these products, because not only by value, but also by the fact that a small number of citizens buy these products, they thus manifest their economic strength and have an obligation to participate in the financing of the state and all services and functions that the state fulfils. If this amendment is not adopted, then it is a clear message sent by the National Assembly to the citizens. The message is - we can introduce excise duty and if you get a solution to pay the tax, we can introduce excise duty for everything else, but not for luxury products, because you need to preserve some lobby, some lobby interests, and that lobby obviously doesn't care about the country's budget, not the economy and the citizens of this country. I can't believe it. Is there a country where, in such a way, there is free of any obligation to the state of transport of luxury products? Most countries in the transport of luxury products, cigarettes and oil almost meet 90% of their budget spending needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33114	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 3 to which the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33115	Serbian Radical Party MP group tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal to amend and supplement the Excise Act, for the reason that what the finance minister says and what he does through the draft of his laws is clearly in the collapsing process. Namely, it is about the protection of wine production, or the production of wine, and at the same time, by this article, which refers to Article 12. Excise laws, the suspension of excise duties on wines, medical wines and medicine. It says here some "price" wine, probably meant natural wines, some French word, I couldn't read well, but it probably meant natural wines. For these reasons, we believe that this is a direct blow to the wine industry, especially our fertile bourgeois mountains, which produce quality and good natural wines, which will affect the fact that the fructose vineyards must provide themselves with one protection. What kind of protection can they do? They can't strike because they're too busy with their jobs. Here's how. I mean, as the bostanjs put on scarecrows to preserve watermelons, so the bourgeois winemakers will have to set up their vineyards with Dinkic and then probably Minister Djelic will have to run as far away from those vineyards as possible. I think that's the only way they can protect their properties and production from which a large number of citizens living in Vojvodina depend, and not only in Vojvodina. In this way, we Serbian radicals, warning vineyards what is coming for them, warning other citizens that Minister Djelic has no intention of taking down taxes on basic life-forms, nor those most necessary for infants, babies, food for infants not produced in our country, and for them no excise duties have been taken off. So, the concern of the government of the Republic of Serbia about drinking will likely eventually prove to be that the government will eventually have to drink it itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33116	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33117	If this is one of the measures that wants to achieve the result, to protect our vineyard production and wine production, then I have to say that this is the wrong measure. The fact is that from the previous 25,000 hectares of plantation we have burned at, I suppose, 5,000 hectares, that there is no halting trend in the deforestation of these vineyards, that this is one unstable production, especially if there is no permanent investment, and all our wineries are burdened by the lack of crafts and other problems faced by other participants in the economic life in Serbia. If someone thinks that by releasing excise taxes on natural wine, they can be helped, they're wrong. It's a measure that's not being helped. But the government has other measures, and these are the measures of customs policies that can protect our market and our producers. However, our government does not use these measures but uses this measure to show that it fulfils the previously assumed obligation of the Macedonian wine producer above all. Again, we are faced with a problem that our government does not know what the priority is and what is the interest of this people of this country. We probably won't make it through this amendment, but it needs to be said that all those who vote know what they're voting for. They don't vote for the French Pearl. It's true and it's our reality. The market is open as one can and anyone can enter and how the lobby is boxing up a more favourable situation with people in power gets satisfaction and confirmation right in the bill's proposals. Someone made a deal, and you vote. Who's to blame for our wine industry's sunflower? Probably the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33118	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zlatan Jovanovic and the MPs of Zivodarka Dacin and Ljubomir Mucic submitted together. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33119	Article 5, which I have submitted to the amendment, refers to Article 16 of the basic law. Article 5 of this proposal provides for the removal of Article 16 of the basic law, and Article 16 of the basic law applies to luxury products. Article 16 states that excise duty is paid at rates on luxury products, so they are listed here under point 1) luxury products of all kinds, of silver, gold and other precious metals; under point 2) - precious stones, natural gems, natural pearls and all products of natural gems and pearls and under point 3) - the skin of reptiles and products made of that skin. It's already been said a lot about this. It is about luxury products that are a matter of prestige, which can afford a small number of citizens, which are not important for 90% of the population of Serbia who cannot survive and barely make ends meet. The only question remains what is the aim of the promoter when he proposed the suspension of the excise duty on these products. Is the goal of getting those few percent of citizens, who can afford this, at even lower prices, or is the goal of foreign producers, who place these products on our market, to increase traffic here, because by reducing excise duties, it is likely that the prices of these products will fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33120	The word has been sent by the Parliament of the People, Zivodarka Dacin, on behalf of the group of amendment applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33121	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Col. Ljubomir Mucic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 with a proposal to delete it. I think there was really a lot of justification here, and the reason why this shouldn't have been taken by emergency procedure, and especially as it comes to the abolition of 20% of excise duty on gold, naturally precious stones, natural pearls and, of course, products of the same and 30% excise on the skin of reptiles and natural fur. You know, it seems like this when various legislative projects come into the assembly procedure that actually the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have a strategy for some synchronous action. Simply on the one hand, by certain ministers and members of the government, there is one story that I absolutely welcome, and that story is being run by the project management team of poverty reduction strategy, and I would very much like to bring here those who are actually going to make our population less poor than these laws where we are actually saving, I don't know who. Does this mean that by eliminating these 20% excise duties, there will be a cost of these products, and even if it comes, it means nothing. The question arises whether this government of the Republic of Serbia is working in the interest of 99% of the population, who has no idea how to think, because it is unable to buy gold, jewels, furry other things or about only one percentage of the population, which it wants to protect in this way. You know, I'd be a lot happier if we didn't have to talk like this, if the DOS had really kept his pre-election promises, and in these three years he'd raised the standard of life of the Serbian population and, say, the Serbian ladies could think and live like Elizabeth Taylor, so they'd be doing a collection of jewelry from natural gems and pearls. Unfortunately, that time is a long way from us, and it should be a little more realistic to look reality in the eye. Let's do something to reduce poverty in Serbia, to raise the standard of living, not to lose weight with the adoption of a law on the abolition of excise goods. This is what the public should really be aware of, and I propose to the ruling majority, the DOS coalition, to do a survey among citizens and ask how happy you are about how much it affects your family budget, which by 20 and 30 percent reduced purchases of luxury products.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33122	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33123	If no amendment by the Serbian Radical Party related to luxury products is adopted, then it should be said what it will mean in practice when you adopt this bill. This will mean that, by some logic, the retail price of luxury products should fall by 20% to 30%. It is possible to do so, and probably what follows is that all those involved in the production and transport of these goods will no longer have any fear, nor the need to bring out one or two products, to be in the shelf, but to freely export the quantities they consider sufficient, because they will practically not be able to make anything that is not in accordance with the law. This is practically legalizing what they've been doing so far on black. If the same and price remains, then the state gave up its income and allowed a small number of producers of these products, and a large number of traffickers and importers of these products, to make a fat profit. That's two alternatives. As you can see, there is no taxpayer, citizen of Serbia, average Serbian citizen in either alternative. There's nothing that can be of interest to either the budget or the economy, and you must know whose interest it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33124	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment is, by substance, a proposal to add a new Article 6 after Article 5. National MP Bojan Pajtic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article be added after Article 5. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33125	First, I have one principled remark of procedural character. Yesterday, gentlemen with 40 MPs, you came to a quorum of 84. Let's ignore it, it's already in your habit, with 116 you have 126, but yesterday the president of the assembly made a precedent, contrary to the Parliament's decision, most of this assembly, allowed the minister to continue his presentation after 20.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33126	National MP, please stick to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and present the contents of your amendment. Here you go. (The microphone was turned off by an MP for a pay phone.) I thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33127	You don't have to thank me, you have to think that one day these functions will pass, that you will return to normal people and you will be held accountable, not you...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33128	People's MP, I warn you of the respect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and your obligation to speak in three minutes about the content of the amendment as an applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33129	Okay, the SRS amendment refers to Article 6 where the minister, explaining the excise duties on cigarettes, said this was a revolutionary solution, and that from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2006, excise duties will be at the level of cigarettes produced in the country by a single dinar and those imported 10 dinars. Look at what revolutionary change is in. After privatisation of DIN and DIV there will be no or almost no cigarettes from abroad. All cigarettes will be produced in this country, because by buying DIN, Philip Morris, BAT or Rovinj will most likely produce their cigarettes, which is why we Serbian radicals react here with the amendment. It is not such a good solution, as the minister noted, that the classes of cigarettes determine excise duties, but it is not good for one reason, because it is left to the Ministry of Agriculture, because it is more specifically left to the individual to decide, so we were faced with the fact that what is not a newspaper, which is bought on trade, is the third category in the classes of cigarettes, reduced taxes, and, unlike the tax given by "Fast" or the owner of "Fast" are financed by individual political organisations or precisely by individuals. This does not have to be a reason to take as a new archin excises for cigarettes produced in the country since January 2005 as a single dinar. He can still stay for the class of cigarettes. In this way our domestic industry is also protected, or rather tobacco producers, because if the minister does not know, at least most in this assembly know that the quality of tobacco sown in Serbia does not correspond to the quality of cigarettes produced by Filip Morris, BAT or Rovinj. As for DIN's work, as the Minister of Pathetics said, in three shifts, so it is not due to this government, it is the least credit for Bozidar Djelic. It's just a download of sanctions, because 90% of the components used by DIN are imported, and we know exactly the companies through which these components are imported. I'm grateful that you've allowed me to tell you in these three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33130	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33131	If the purpose and purpose of installing Articles 40a and 40b would be to increase the price of our factories that are in the privatisation process and the party participates in this process, then something could be accepted from it. However, the purpose and purpose are not so. The guarantee provided by the amendment of this law is short-lived, it will be quite expensive, several individuals will take quite the funds, the National Assembly will be responsible, as it tried to arbitration in the conflict of several multinational companies dealing with the production and distribution of cigarettes. In all variations, you will make a mistake because this rivalry of the company costs the European Union about $4 billion annually. New York City is currently being held against the world's largest cigarette manufacturers based in New York City, and illegal jobs work through their dealers on five different destinations. One of these is our space. The purchase of our factories with the guarantees I told you about yesterday will only lure even more interest, because this area of this government neither can nor wants to solve it in principle. All standards will be disrupted. Last time I warned you, now I'm just going to repeat, when this law starts to apply, that is, these changes and they're being added over the next few months, or half a year, there's going to be a lot of newspaper articles about who took as much, and then don't be surprised what the consequences will be, because they from the West are much more valuable to their money than any of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-18-0.u33132	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, as the representative of Minister Bozidar Djelic is not present, according to Article 138 to the final word, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular, and as we have carried out a search of the Bill's proposal both in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will today, in the voting day, decide on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF CARINAL LAW You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. As the National Assembly conducted a joint principle search under which the Customs Code was discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 408th amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 410 of the amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. As we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, and the representative of Finance and Economy Minister Bozidar Djelic is not here to conclude, under Article 138, the final word, the search of the draft law in particular, and the search of the draft law in principle and in particular, given that the National Assembly thus held a debate on all the points of the 12th extraordinary session agenda in 2003, we move to a decision-making session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a FINISHING POLICICAL PARTIES (vote) After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the financing of political parties, in principle. For 97, against 11, 27 of the 135 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that, by written means, MP Bratislava Janackovic withdrew amendments to Articles 1, 2, 4 and amendments to Chapter 4. I find that the following amendments, adopted by the Committee on Finance and a representative of the proposings at the Committee's session, which the Legislative Committee considers legally possible, have become an integral part of the bill's proposal, namely: the amendment of the MP Branislav Vakic to Article 2 of the Amendment of the Committee on Finance to Articles 5, 6 and 20 and the amendment of the People's MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović to Articles 5 and 14. I put the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Blazic on Article 3. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For two, against 102, 26 of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted jointly to Article 3 by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Against 100, it did not vote 40 out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to article 4. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Against 100, with two abstentions, there was no vote of 44, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to article 4. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In five, against 94, there was no vote of 47, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic to article 4. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 28, v 92, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Joca Arsic to article 4. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For six, against 102, 40 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Zeljo Huric on Article 5. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In five, against 92, a abstentioned one, did not vote 52, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic to article 5. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 27, against 91, it did not vote 34, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic to article 5. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Against 96, he did not vote 61, out of 157 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Branko Ruzic on Article 5. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 9, against 100, he did not vote 51, out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments, which, with correction, was submitted by MP Bratoljub Janackovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For three, against 97, there were no 58 votes, out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I'm putting on the vote for the amendments tabled by the MP of the People's Parliament, Živodarka Dacin, on Article 6. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 12, against 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 48, out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Bratoljub Janackovic to article 6. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 15, against 82, he did not vote 61, out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vradimir Dobrosavljevic to article 6. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 37, against 100, 22 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Srdja Popovic to article 6. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In five, against 94, there was no vote of 60, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 6. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For two, against 102, 57 of the 161 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to article 8. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there were no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For two, against 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 61, out of 161 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic on 10th. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 37, against 94, it did not vote 32, out of 163 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Milovan Radovanovic on 10th. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For three, against 93, there was no vote of 66, out of 162 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by national MP Natasa Jovanovic as member of the 11th. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Against 94, it did not vote 67, out of 161 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Djura Lazic on Article 11. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For seven, against 100, there were no 54 votes, out of 161 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic on Article 12. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Against 96, it did not vote 63 out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 13. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For one against 96, he did not vote 61 out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic to article 14. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Against 101, it did not vote 58 out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Hranislav Peric and Dragan Todorovic on Article 15. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For three, against 92, there was no vote of 64, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic on Article 16. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 37, against 93, 30 of the 160 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Zlatan Jovanovic on Article 16. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In four, against 98, 57 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 17. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Against 98, it did not vote 60 out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments, which, in the same text, were submitted to Article 18 by MPs Vitomir Plužarević and Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For eight, against 99, it did not vote 53, out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others on Article 18. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Against 97, it did not vote 62 out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic to article 18. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 33, against 97, it did not vote 28 out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic on 19th. For one, against 103, 54 of the 158 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic to article 20. Against 95, it did not vote 64 out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic to article 20. For 40, against 97, it did not vote 23, out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic to article 22. In four, against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 54, out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Sreten Mitrovica to article 22. For two, against 101, there were no 57 votes, out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski to article 23. Against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 57, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments, which, in the same text, were tabled together by MPs Rajko Baralić and Joca Arsic and the People's MP Vjerica Radeta, on Article 24. Against 103, 55 of the 158 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Dragan Colic to article 25. Against 99, it did not vote 58 out of 157 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on the financing of political parties in general. For 150, it did not vote nine out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on the financing of political parties. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the National Bank of Serbia After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the bill on the National Bank of Serbia, in principle and ask the MPs to make a statement. For 110, against 38, it did not vote 10 out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill on the National Bank of Serbia in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle, and before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal became the amendment of the National MP Tomislav Panajotovic to Articles 4, 14, 38, 39, 43, 71, 78, 80 and 93, amendments submitted jointly by the MPs of Natas Milojevic, Aleksandar Vatović, Olgica Kircanski, Dragan Milentijević and Meho Omerovic to members 28 and 39, the amendment, with the correction of Parliament of the People's Parliament Srda Popovic to Article 25, amendment of the Committee on Finance to Article 25, amendments which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Dragan Colić and joint MPs Marko Culibrk and Dusan Cvetković to the amendments submitted jointly by Members of the People's Parliament Zoran D. Nikolić and by Mr. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Blazic to article 1. Against 107, he did not vote 51, out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 2. Against 103, 53 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For seven, against 97, it did not vote 52 out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Vakic on Article 3. Against 102, 54 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For ten, against 104, there were no 42 votes, out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to article 4. Against 107, it did not vote 49 out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For 6, against 102, 48 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by the MPs Golub Rajic and Đura Lazic. Against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 55 out of 157 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Teodora Vlahovic to article 7. For 21 against 82, two abstentions, 52 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For 5, against 102, 50 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 10. Against 100, it did not vote 56 out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 11. Against 103, 53 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic on Article 12. For 6, against 100, 51 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the table on the title and Article 13, together with Members of Parliament Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic, to vote. For 6, against 102, 49 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zivodarka Dacin and Rade Bajic. Against 98, it did not vote 56 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For 6, versus 97, it did not vote 51, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic to article 14. Against 101, it did not vote 53, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments submitted to Article 14 together by the MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Djura Lazic. Against 89, it did not vote 64 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic on Article 15. For 6, versus 90, a abstentioned one, did not vote 56, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendment tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic on Article 15. Against 96, it did not vote 58 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the title and to Article 16, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For six against 98, 51 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together on Article 16 by the MPs Natasa Milojevic, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Dragan Milentijevic and Meso Omerovic. For 46, against 86, 25 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic on Article 16. For three, against 97, there were no 58 votes, out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by the MPs Zivodarka Dacin and Velimir Zivojinovic. Against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 57, out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For 6, versus 95, a abstentioned one, did not vote 52, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Radojko Petric and Rajko Baralic, on article 19. Against 102, abstention one, not 51, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic on Article 20. For six, against 95, there was no vote of 53, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Djura Lazic and Ljubisa Maravic on Article 20. Against 102, abstention one, not 50, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put to the vote the amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Joca Arsic and Milan Jankovic, which by content is a proposal for amendments to Articles 22, 28, 29, 31 and 93. For three, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 51, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic on Article 22. For seven, against 101, there was no vote of 46, of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Toma Busetic as member of the 23rd. Against 99, it did not vote 54 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. In five, against 97, 51 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Radojko Petrovic and Milos Nesovic, on Article 25. Against 98, it did not vote 55 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Zivodarka Dacin on Article 26. Against 99, it did not vote 54 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic on Article 28. For seven, against 98, there was no vote of 47, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 29th vote together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For seven, against 90, a abstentioned one, did not vote 54, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted jointly by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic to Article 30. For seven, against 97, there were no 47 votes, out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic to article 30. Against 91, it did not vote 61, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to article 31. Against 101, it did not vote 51, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic to article 32. Against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 49 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic on Article 33. For six, against 96, there was no vote of 49, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Rada Bajic and Zivanko Radovanchev, on Article 33. Against 101, it did not vote 50 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 39th joint vote by the MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Dusan Cvetkovic. Against 102, 48 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet, on article 39. Against 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 51, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 43rd vote together by the MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Rade Bajic. For one against 97, they did not vote 52 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to article 43. Against 101, the abstentions were not voted 50 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 43rd vote together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For seven, against 102, two abstentions, they did not vote 42, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 44. Against 106, it did not vote 46 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 44th joint vote by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For eight, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 41, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Jovan Todorovic and Tomislav Markovic, on Article 48. Against 103, 50 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 50th joint vote by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For nine, against 97, the two abstentions did not vote 45, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic on Article 53. For eight, against 99, two abstentions, they did not vote 44, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic on article 53. Against 103, 50 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Tomic on Article 65. In five, against 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 51, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 71st vote together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For eight, against 101, there was no vote of 45, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Joca Arsic on Article 71. Against 101, they did not vote 52 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 78th vote together by MPs Joca Arsic and Tomislav Markovic. For one, against 102, there was no vote of 50, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 81st vote together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. For seven, against 103, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 42, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 90th Joint Members of Parliament, Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic, together. Against 100, they did not vote 53, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric on Article 90. Against 102, abstention one, not 50, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 91st joint MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. In seven, against 102, they did not vote 43, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Marko Culibrk and Milan Jankovic on Article 91. Against 106, it did not vote 48 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 92rd vote together by MPs Hranislav Peric and Sreten Mitrovica. Against 101, they did not vote 53, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on the National Bank of Serbia in general. For 108, against 34, it did not vote 13, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted a bill on Serbia's National Bank, in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on banks and other financial organisations to vote, in principle, on the draft amending and supplementing law on banks and other financial organisations. For 113, against 23, it did not vote 15 out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet. Against 99, he did not vote 51 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Radojko Petric, and Golub Rajic, on Article 7. For two, against 104, there were no 44 votes, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations as a whole. For 109 against two, it did not vote 37, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, passed the bill, in general. We move to item 4 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Adjunctions to the ACCIAS Law I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, in principle. For 134, there were 14 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Bojan Pajtic, to add a new article 6 and to Article 6 after Article 5. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 1. Against 104, 44 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Marko Culibrk and Dragan Jovanovic. Against 99, it did not vote 50 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by the MPs Goran Cvetanovic and the national MPs Golub Rajic and Rade Bajic together. Against 107, he did not vote 41, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Stegvan Kesejic on Article 3. Against 102, 45 of the 147 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which, in the same text, were submitted to Article 5 by MP Zlatan Jovanovic and together by MPs of the People's Republic of Živodarka Dacin and Ljubomir Mucic. Against 105, he did not vote 41, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 6. Against 108, a abstentioned one, was not voted 38, of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. For 138, it did not vote 10 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, passed the bill in general. We move to the fifth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF CARINAL LAW After we have conducted a search in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft customs law to the vote, in principle. For 136, it did not vote 12 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to the members of 408 and 410. It's a bill of law. Since these were the only amendments submitted, we move to a decision on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the Customs Code proposal, in general. For 139, it did not vote 11 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for customs law in general. Having considered all the points of the agenda and deciding on them, I am concluding the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Thank you for your cooperation and pleasant.
