ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30017	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for work and decision-making. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs:Radomir Naumov, Marko Jaksic, Branimir Trajkovic, Torde Laslo, Svetlana Stojanović and Branislav Grubački; (later) Teodora Vlahović, Ratimir Svirčević and Miomir Tadic; (before noon) Ružica Veljović. I would like to inform you that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a new parliamentary group called DOS - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, consisting of six MPs. The president of the parliamentary group was appointed MP Biachi Anton, and his deputy MP, Dr. Tord Laslo, was appointed. We move to item two of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF RESEARCH THINGS REFERRED TO IN THE REGISTAR(S) I remind you that at yesterday's session we started the debate on the amendment to Article 3. The bill, which was submitted jointly by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Dragan Jovanovic. National MP Nebojsa Jovic took part in the debate, and said MP Ljubomir Mucic, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30018	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected the session to be attended by Mr. Minister, given what was at the end of yesterday's session, so I thought that in oral form I should explain the amendment to Article 3, all because I consider the amendment to be essential and to regulate some questions of this law and in subsequent provisions. It is not a pure form of submission of this amendment, although the order of things provided for by this article has been amended. We have tried this amendment to substantially change the position of Article 1(3). It's a bill of law. First, the place of signing and the conclusion of the contract is extremely important to be located in this article of the bill, given that any later provisions based on this law have arisen from the basic one, which is from the pledge agreement, which is concluded between the lender and the trustee, i.e. the hostage trustee. The place of conclusion of the contract is very important precisely in the light of the conduct of litigation, judicial proceedings, as well as the manner of payment of claims, and after the expiry of maturity. For these reasons, we have suggested that in Article 3, in addition to the date of completion of the speech, it should be "date and place of conclusion of the contract". These add words later will determine if there is a breach of the provisions of the contract, which the court has local jurisdiction and in the coerced execution of the executive procedure department in order to hand over the case of the stock in the State's publisher. We believe that in this member of the company's law it means nothing, the company is just a sumptuous noun. But the name of the firm in this member of the law is very important, given that everything applies to the name of the firm that advocates this right, so the company, regardless of who is as an individual, can claim a certain right for the owner or for another natural person or individual. So the name of the firm is what this contract is directed at, which should be the subject of this member, as well as the subject matter of the contract. As regards all other provisions of the contract, they are prescribed and are respected in the context of the contract. Finally, I propose that the Minister accept this amendment, bearing in mind that, on the basis of it, all other provisions of the contract and this law rest on the Contracting Parties, i.e. the obligations arising from the concluded agreement on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30019	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30020	Yesterday, he was a National MP for the Serbian Radical Party, Milovan Radovanovic, explaining the amendment to Article 1. The bill, I'm talking about this topic, so I would just briefly remind you of what the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group is up to. We suggest that, in Article 3(1), the words "marks" should be inserted and the words "prove property rights" should be added. We feel that this is a constant follow-up to Article 966. The law on bond relations, he predicts that concrete things that are the subject of the stock must have the right to property, so that the trustee, without a court dispute, could collect his claims. This is what we will follow with amendments throughout the text of the bill, which we have already discussed with the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30021	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? Yes, the people's psalnica Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 1 we have already requested that the component of the contract be the registration as evidence of property rights. I was under the impression that the minister, whispering with his associates, had agreed to it. Therefore, I do not understand why it is not already part of the bill, or why it is not already written there. I insisted on an explanation, and in order to understand matter completely, given that in the Law on Liabilities, this provision is written, and it is quite in place. This means that it is possible to prove the right of property even though it is a moving matter. We do not know why there is no such thing in the draft law on the right to exercise on movable matters entered in the register, especially if it is a specific publishing law to be entered in the register, so the proof of the right of ownership on the movable matter should be an integral part of the document attached to the register or which should be, as we will also see in Article 3, that the pledge contract contains as mandatory elements. It's not a good thing it says here "the pledge contract contains especially." Especially - it doesn't contain much. Someone can be particularly handsome or especially smart. It means, like, about, you know, you can, you don't have to. It's a matter of personal judgment. This is where it's supposed to be. So, the mandatory element is contracts, and the parties are free to enter, in addition to these mandatory elements in the contract, what is individually interesting to them and what they would like to be regulated by the contract itself. For this reason both in Articles 1 and 3 we ask that mandatory proof of property rights be entered into these provisions as an integral part of the contract, which is then the basis for enrolment in the register.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30023	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a representative of the government, Mr Pitic is here, so I would like to be prevented from explaining this amendment to Article 3(2), and it refers to the fact that it is said in paragraph 2 - the pledge agreement is concluded in writing. Our amendment refers to standing - in writing, which is in line with Serbian language, legal tradition and terminology of the Law on Bond Relations. Written, it may also be illiterate, and the written form is precisely marked in both language and legal terminology as to what is meant by this. Therefore, this is an attempt to modify the bill in terms of terminology and language, because this is not the only example and the only observation. Lately, we've been passing laws that are completely different from the legal system that we're used to, or that's in the state. Is it because of bad translations or unprofessional translations, or some acts from abroad, or for some other reason? It's not really that important to this amendment, but it's important to that end that we want clear, precise and linguistically correct laws that we make.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30025	Does anyone else sign up for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Goran Pitic, as the government's author-in-chief, as regards the proposal for a law on pawn law on moving matters entered in the register, was also irritated yesterday by the words of the MPs, above all, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Zoran Krasic. It bothered him that the law was said to be confusing and could allow controversial businessmen to wash off money, since it, above all, allows them to realise an even more pronounced regrouping of wealth. First of all, it is said that the economic opportunities that are now in Serbia allow for the application of this law, i.e. to allow the introduction of greenery to a large door. Apparently, it bothers the Minister when radicals say "controversial businessmen." Maybe it's easier to say - the mafia. Because apparently for people who have come to this capital like Stanko Subotic - Canet, head of the tobacco mafia, it's probably a more correct term than controversial businessmen. There must be ministers in the government like Mrs. Kori Udovicki who, on the first day of her term, suggested that Serbian citizens sell their apartments to pay for electricity. Whether it's a deposit or something, it's a minister better than us, but apparently the ministers in his government have extremely insecure and unquality offers as far as citizens are concerned. As far as Article 4 is concerned, - obtaining a hostage right - it is almost exactly the same as Article 15. - a hostage trustee. Article 4 states that the trustee acquires the right to enter the register of stocks, unless otherwise provided by law. While article 15 just says - a trustee can gain a claim. In fact, the rest is exactly the same. That is why the Serbian Radical Party MP club has just insisted that the member be determined precisely. It is, in fact, two members of the proposed law and that Article 4(1), after the word 'application', is replaced by a point and that the remaining text is deleted, i.e. Article 2 is completely deleted. First of all, if a stock register is established, it is mandatory and there should be no exceptions. There's no other law that can regulate this in any other way. No one can choose whether or not to sign a stock contract in the register. Because unless such an amendment, which the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group gave, is adopted, there is no legal certainty in the application of this law. The parliamentary group has no doubt that the authorised minister has good intentions to realise this, but sometimes intentions and realizations are not identical. That is why it is really necessary to make an amendment to Article 4 and to Article 15 of adoption, to precisely say that anyone who wants to pawn something must put it in the register without leaving it to his will, whether he wants it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30027	Is anyone else applying for this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30028	Article 4 with its title - "getting a right to publishing", paragraph 1 states that "the trustee acquires the right to enrol in the register of stocks, unless otherwise specified by law". This would mean that this law cannot bear such a title at all, that such a pledge would no longer be the subject of this law. I remind you that the law refers to the right to be pawned on movable matters entered in the register. Well, if they're not listed in the register, then they're not the subject of this stock, they're the manual pawn, the one in the Bonded Relations Act. That's why we asked the amendment to remove this provision, because it is not binding, because there is no entry in the register as a liability, and that Article 2 in that case, in the sense of this law, cannot survive at all. Because if the stockholder has pawned a thing he doesn't have the right to property, and here's the first time you mention it in article 4, right of property, that means that we were right when we said that in both the first and third terms that provision should be entered, or if the stock is not valid for other reasons. When you say "or," it means that if he doesn't have the right to property, then the stock isn't even important. Look, as the legal code is given, you may not have wanted it, but as it says, that's how it's interpreted. In that case, therefore, the stock does not produce legal facts. Once again, I ask you to listen to me carefully, if the stockholder has pawned a thing that has no right to property, or if the stock is not of any importance for other reasons, it is not, for this first reason either, if it has no right to property, the registration in the stock register does not produce a legal fact. In my view, this provision is completely excessive and radically written. What the promoter wanted, he had to say in some other way, because this Article 4 is so confusing that it will in practice cause very big ambiguities and problems. The manual pledge, under the Implementing Procedure Act, allows the trustee to establish the right to conclude an agreement with the debtor before the competent court. Together they, the trustee and debtor, may ask the court to determine and implement the admission of the right to the property of the debtor, i.e. to determine and implement the list of movable assets of the debtor, in order to ensure the trustee's financial claim, the establishment of a right to the immovable (it would be a mortgage) or a movable property, that is, Article 233. The law on executive proceedings. That's why what we told you in the principle debate and when we talked about this law, and also about the Financial Lising Act, it was much better that what you wanted through some changes go to the laws that already regulate those institutes, so the Law on Lising Relations and the Law on Executive Procedure, and thus to achieve the effect that you possibly wanted and that there was no need for us to pass new laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30029	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Jovan Todorovic. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee summed up that the amendment is legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30030	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, we expected you to have more understanding for the amendment to Article 3 that my colleague Dragan Jovanovic and I submitted, because he really only referred to the more precise regulation of the content of the contract's obligation. In that sense, to Article 4. The proposal for a law establishing the right to exercise on movable matters entered in the register, which regulates the concept of obtaining a right to publishing, and the trustee obtains the right to enter the register of stocks, on behalf of the SPS, my colleague Jovan Todorovic and I, we have submitted an amendment to propose a vote of Article 2, which reads: "If the stockholder has pawned a thing on which he has no right to property, or if the stock is not valid for other reasons, the registration in the stock register does not produce a legal fact". It is unconditional to prescribe here that it does not produce a legal fact enrolment in the stock register if the stockholders have pawned someone else's business, that is, a thing where they have no right to property or if the stock is not valid for other reasons. In itself, it is understood that the subject of hostage law can be individually determined by a matter which the depositor can freely dispose of. In other words, a lender may be a debtor if he has the right to property on a moving matter or property of a rightful owner. This is regulated by Article 9 and Article 15. It's a bill of law. For the sake of all of the above, we believe that the unnecessary position of Article 2 is Article 4. We propose to delete Article 2(4)'s position because we find it really unnecessary in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30031	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? Yes, MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30032	Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there was a slight earthquake again tonight in the Valjev region. It's rocking western Serbia, and someone else in it is rocking, probably the one in power. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we have submitted one important amendment to Article 4, and we have proposed that Article 4(2) deletes, given what we have spoken about Article 3, I think there really should be agreement on the form of the contract and that the form of the contract and the place of conclusion is extremely important for this procedure and what is later on in the law. I think that we are consistent here, given that this same provision, as provided for in Article 4(1), which concerns the law of the hostage and the acquisition of the right, I can say that, both in Article 4 and in Article 15, which we have submitted to the amendment, the same formulation has been accepted. So, an explicit provision to obtain the right to enrol in the court register. For these reasons, we have also suggested erasing attitude 2, given that this attitude creates certain possibilities for manipulation. It reads: "If the stockholder has pawned a thing where he has no right to property or if the stock is not valid for other reasons, the registration in the stock register does not produce a legal fact". I think that from that point in this law, and we all tend to make this law extremely serious, this provision cannot survive, to let an official register itself interpret whether someone had the right to property and whether at the moment someone interpreted the application for registration in the court register, whether he had the basic means, whether it was in his property, whether there was going to be a change in co-ownership relations. Since there is no responsibility for the official of the register in the event of refusal of registration in the court register or even for registration in the court register, in accordance with the request submitted by either the depositor or the publisher. Our opinion is that this position 2 should not, at least in the text of the law itself and in this article, create the possibility of revoking the stock and bearing in mind that all relations later arise at the time of enrolment in the court register. So, the entry into the court register - then begins the publishing right, if at the time the application is impossible to comply with the requirements, and later that something is found that the stockholder is not the owner or is not the co-owner, or that the goods have been sold or that there has been a fall in the case of the stock. For these reasons, we have also proposed to delete only Article 2(4)'s position in order not to create, in later practice, the possibility of revoking, i.e. the nullity of the closed pledge and registration contracts in the court register. Understand what that court register will look like as a serious register leading these affairs, when it begins to sign the futility of the contract and that nothing is rightly held. I don't think that'll lead to the safety of the hostage trustees and the achievement of their obligations under contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30033	Are any of the other authorised participants applying for a word? There's no sign-ins. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30034	Madam Chairman said the government didn't accept the amendment, but we don't know that, because we didn't get the report. It was his turn to arrive, and the minister said he'd be here. I don't know how the chairman knows, and we don't know how the government decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30035	I said a representative of the government because he attended the committee session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30036	It would be much easier for us to discuss the amendments if we had a report and if the Government had a little more respect for us in this regard and in time delivered its opinion on our amendments. On Article 5 of the register, we have submitted an amendment requesting that the superscription of Article 5 be deleted as a total surplus. The meaning of the existence of a register is justified if it applies to all pledge contracts, and the provision that enrollment in the register of stocks may be requested by the trustee or by the depositor to bring confusion in any case a very confusing legislative proposal. In paragraph 2, if the entry requires a trustee, and it is necessary to make an explicit statement by the claimant to agree that the trustee shall enter the right to the reserve register, and to that extent it shall be conditional on the question of what if he does not agree to it, whether there is no such contract, whether it is not possible, whether it is a stock provided for by the Liabilities Act or by this new pledge, for which the register is established and where there is no surrender of matters in the State. If we have already said in the title of the law that this is a pawned right of things entered in the register, if we have said in Article 4, that the trustee is entitled to be entered in the register of stocks, then Article 5 is completely excessive and unnecessary. Of course, the question is what should be contained in this article, it is a matter of competence for the management of the register of law, since the stock on immovable property, i.e. the mortgage is held by the competent municipal court. We have seen from the Minister's presentation that we will only have on the agenda a draft law on the register of stocks, which is absolutely unnecessary for us, too, because we need to go towards codifying legislation, that we have as little law as possible, that they are as clear as possible, as they are, and that they cover everything that has been covered by two or three laws so far. As a result, we have advocated that such an agreement on pledges on movable matters, which would have to be entered into the court register, is foreseen through two or three provisions amending the Law on Bond Relations, and thus we would have achieved the same effect; we would not bother Parliament with such laws, nor would we bring into legal traffic any confusion of, say, the introduction of some of the provisions of this law, such as Article 4 or a completely excessive Article 5. That would be in favor of this amendment, and it's up to the government to see how right we are. I'm saying, through the entire text of the law, we've come across provisions that, on many occasions, appear in the same way or slightly different ways, so there's no impression of any precision of the whole matter that this law is discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30037	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? There's no sign-ins. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Zivodarka Dacin. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30038	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SPS, along with MP Živodarka Dacin, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. A bill of this law. In this article, the Government proposes that the entry into the register of stocks be made at the request of the trustee or the depositor. So, there's one option and another. With the amendment, we propose that the registration of the right of the trustee be carried out only at the request of the trustee, and, with the request for registration, the trustee must always make an explicit statement to the depositor to agree that the trustee enters the right to the deposit register. In order to create trust and introduce a greater order into the Institute of Fundamental Rights in mobile matters, it is necessary to prescribe that registration of the right should be carried out only at the request of the trustee. Otherwise, if you leave the possibility that the enrolment can be made and the depositor will complicate the whole procedure. In that case, the trustee will always make sure the enrolment is actually made. So both the depositor and the trustee will go to the competent organization that makes the stock register. It's a waste of time, whether they're coordinating the term and going together or the trustee going later and checking out the details of the stock entry. It can be formally said that the depositor will bring the correction that he made the pledge, however, the trustee will always want to be familiar with more details. So let's take, for example, he pawned the computer and brought in a confirmation that he's listed the stock, but there's no details, the trustee wants to see if there's a printer there, so if the printer is laser and he's always going to go check it out, find out the details of what the stock was for. Then why would we do that? We'd better pass on that obligation to always have the trustee register the stock. On the other hand, until the trustee is convinced that the right to the agreed details and recorded in the stock register is not a matter of work, because the job is waiting and suffering. Therefore, in order to make this law more effective and to strengthen trust between creditors and lenders in regulating debt-confidential relations, it makes complete sense to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30039	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30040	I have to admit, I don't understand why it's even being defined in a law that can demand the registration of a law, if it has to be entered in the register. I can either as a hostage trustee or as a depositor, get a lawyer and say, "Go ahead, put that in the register." I could have made a hand-deposit agreement before, registered it in court and done the same job, which means what I wanted that contract to be seduced for, to secure myself. I don't understand at all why an alternative provision and why a regulation on enrolment in a register like this. The registration of the right to the register of stocks may be requested by the trustee or the stockholder. I know it's a register to provide third-party security, and that's clear, but what's this provision for, what does it specify or define, and what's not already defined by some other provision? A completely superfluous member. Since the establishment of special registers for pawned movable things - which otherwise exist in parallel law, can also be established with us, for example at the Trade Court, registration according to the seat of the debtor, in any way or with any other state body, we will see how the Government imagined it when we get this law - could also provide for the registration of a publishing law, i.e. a publishing agreement concluded in accordance with the provision of the Implementing Procedure Act. It's another debate in the direction that we could through amendments to the Executive Procedure Act to regulate this matter. The Publishing Agreement above a certain value would have to be regulated as mandatory for registration. We have been able to overcome this need for registration in front of the competent authorities in many ways, not by passing a new law that defines an institute that exists from Roman law, but only now it is necessary in the same way to enlist in the register and the whole law deals with it, and we will pass a special law on that register. In that law, we could define it or the Bond Relations Act just to define it through two or three provisions, that there is this kind of stock, which would be different from the hand supply.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30041	Is anyone else applying for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Milan Jankovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30042	Ms. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, as a parliamentary group and signatories of this amendment, Joca Arsic and Milan Jankovic, who are on the Legislative Committee, have submitted an amendment to Article 7(1), which reads: "Furthering law can be provided with a monetary claim whose amount is expressed in domestic or foreign currency. "We have asked our amendment that this "or foreign currency" is deleted, given that this state has its own coin, that all the value, obligation and claim can be expressed in domestic currency, and, as a rule, expressed in domestic currency, and that in the means of payment traffic and reconciliation obligations are mainly carried out primarily by the reconciliation of liabilities in the domestic currency. For these reasons, we do not believe that Article 1 should state that the law provides for a monetary claim in a foreign currency. Also for the reasons of Article 2, which reads as follows: "A certain amount of the main claim is provided by the law at issue (it is not disputed, let’s say, the main claim may also be expressed in foreign currency), the interest due (which is calculated at domestic and interest rates, and if it is in foreign currency, whether it will be interest valid in the domestic countries or in the European Union for those obligations) and the cost of the collection of claims. "Here it is very important, the costs of the collection of claims that have not been made on maturity. That's why we've proposed this amendment, considering everything we talked about yesterday about greenery, interest rates and forced payment of claims on the basis of a pawn's right. I think these costs of billing and making claims, as they are undefined by this law, can be one of the main causes of a later dispute over the greening of funds on someone else's back. For these reasons, we have also suggested, given that this law regulates both future and conditional claims, that future acquisitions of funds, equipment or acquisitions of contributions on the basis of some hostage right should be deleted in this position of Article 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30043	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30044	I think that this amendment is quite in place, in the sense that Article 1 cannot provide for a monetary claim by the amount expressed in foreign currency. Simply, foreign currency must not even be negotiated. This moment has opened our eyes in the sense that we claim this will be greening. Who has foreign currency? It can't even be business. An economic operator that has free resources cannot negotiate a stock or as a trustee for foreign exchange funds. This will be done exclusively by individuals who have foreign currency, either in bank accounts or in pockets. Who else can, Minister? Who else can? Can the bank appear as a trustee, as a hostage trustee with foreign funds? Economic operators cannot, and the goal here is to help each other in this regard, i.e. to move free capital there. So, it would be quite appropriate to delete this, the foreign currency, and Section 2 has also given us a law-hitting cream in principle, because it predicts that the publishing law provides for a certain amount of the main claim, and that's exactly where the interest is due, and you said, no, it's not greening, I'm not giving you cash, as you said, and interest is 10% or 20%. We see, interest is agreed, at what level, how, it's going to be the subject of free bargaining, and it can be that green 10, 20, 30 percent, everything depends, and the money's getting smaller, the need is growing. Therefore, the interest will be growing. We know when something stands up, usually that thing that stands up has got to have value twice as much as it gets from a hostage trustee. You've got 100,000 marks or euros worth of equipment, I can't move on to it anymore, and you're asking for a hostage trustee of 50,000. So you have to have twice as much value to get that kind of credit. The debt interest and allegedly the cost of payment of claims are already included. They should certainly be planned, but this debt interest stock is not foreseen as an institute, no interest is prescribed in stock, nor is it prescribed here. That's why we claimed that this was space and legalization of vegetables. Therefore, this "in foreign currency" should also be deleted and the interest should not be part of the amount provided by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30045	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the next amendment submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to article 9. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the motionary, explaining this law, has tried to explain to us that the law on pawn law on movable matters entered in the register is being adopted to regulate the matter that was partly regulated by the Law on Liaison. This was done for a reason that these jobs, i.e. these things, would be more detailed and precisely regulated. The SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 9(1). The view reads: "The subject of hostage law can be individually determined by the one thing the stockholder can freely dispose of. "We propose that after the word "suppose" the point is replaced by a comma and add the words "on the basis of property rights", and to specify and define what might be the subject of the pledge. On a specific case, I'll explain why. Minister Pitic, as government minister, has an official mobile phone. In view of the difficult economic situation in which our country and individuals are located, he needs certain crafts, so he is the object of the stock, since he freely disposes of that mobile phone, puts his mobile phone on, and I assume that the market value of that phone may be 150-200 euros, and he gets 75 or 100 euros from me still available on that phone. Within six months, elections come, the government falls, Minister Pitic is no longer a minister, the time has come for me to collect my claim, he has not calmed down the lender, he has not returned the funds, and I need him to take my cell phone, to settle down, to recover my funds, but we are coming to the situation that the Serbian government is looking for the same mobile phone, because the Serbian government has that phone, the Serbian government owns the phone. That is why we insist that it is clearly understood here that when making certain things in stock, there must be a ownership list, or one that makes a provision to have concrete proof that it is his property, that there is no dispute afterwards between the real owner and the one who gave the money to the one who pawned that thing, that for years it determines who has the right to have that thing, which is being held in stock, who, and how, and in what way, will charge. Whether first the Serbian government or the first one who gave money for the thing, when it was advocated as in that case. It will then be the subject of some bonding relationship, some civil litigation, and perhaps the state will prosecute it on official duty. Are we going to pass a special law for such cases, if you are making special laws for each area? I think, Minister, you should adopt this amendment. And on Article 3, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, in front of the SRS, has submitted an amendment of similar content, which essentially does not significantly alter the content of this law, but clearly defines and precises some of the provisions of this law, so that we do not come into the situation to make this law a mess, and you said in your explanation that he should edit this matter, and I fear that such and similar provisions will only bring confusion into this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30047	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that Mr. Ljubojevic has explained to Article 9 and which is required to stand in the first position after the word "possibly" should stand "based on the right of property", in no other way, because you can hold things on any basis, but it can only be available if you have the right to property. This is the basic element of real property. So now I ask you why there is no earlier in these previous members, so that this would be understood. So it's got to be standing. Otherwise, as regards this item 2 or 3, any moving thing in the traffic may appear as a manual stock facility. All it takes is for it to be sufficiently individualized, i.e. to be defined. In this sense, the notion of fleeting charge (floating charge), for example, as a hostage right on all available claims or on the entire assets and business of enterprises, which can be changed over time, has been known in Western systems, and has so far not been accepted in our practice, although it has not been explicitly banned. It could be negotiated as such, and one of the principles of supply is the principle of speciality, which predicts that the pawny right covers only individually certain things, although it is possible to stock up on the sum of things. It's so-called. a slave lager, where the object of the stock is a certain matter in a general way, but the stockholder in that sense is authorized to extract a certain matter from there or replace it with another, so that the provision of the whole article 9, as well as all that I have said, is contained in the Law on Liaison and this is not a new provision at all. I'm saying all that again just to convince you that the law was too high. So this is the exact same provision, I don't know exactly which member of the Law on Obligation Relations, except that it normally stands there -- based on property rights, because that means available, and sometimes, when you want to change the law or you want to put certain remarks on it, when you're done with all the amendments or with all the members of the law, go back to the first, the second, the third, and you see that it's already been resolved somewhere else and there's interventions going again. Hence, our remarks, which our colleagues made, that the concept law was really wrong and that, if you wanted a special law, with much fewer members, and even through transitional provisions, or through that provision that subsidiarity here was at work when it comes to other laws, you could solve the problem, and we didn't need 68 members of the law here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30049	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30050	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia to Article 9 has a similar explanation as the previous amendment. We have made an amendment to paragraphs 1 and 2, where under the bill of law in paragraph 1 it is indicated that the subject matter of hostage law may be individually determined by the depositor to be free of charge. This "which the stockholder can freely dispose of" is replaced by the wording "moving matter in the hands of the stockholder". For what reason? Free availability is essentially property rights. The sole owner can freely dispose of his belongings, so we believe that it is more correct in the spirit of the Law on Liabilities and the legal system to stand - that the subject of hostage law is precisely a matter in the possession of the stockholder, or a third party, because the stockholder does not have to be in debt under the bill. If this provision were to be made in Article 9(1), The proposal to interpret in terms of the applicable legal system and the Law on Liabilities, this formulation would essentially mean the right to property. Then why not say the right of property, that is, the property of the lender. Here it is possible that there is some different disturbance to make available to things that have no right to property, which are not in the hands of the lender, and there was an explanation that I heard on the Legislative Committee, that these are about abandoned things. Such a formulation does not prevent the possibility that the thing that I got, for example, in a manual bet, by the Law on Bond Relations, by this law I put into stock. The same thing I take away from someone, whether against law or by some legal basis, I can legally pawn. This formulation creates legal uncertainty and virtually all things are subject to and similar to being the subject of hostage law, I just need to write that it's my thing, or write it down in stock. This creates considerable legal uncertainty and the possibility of significant disputes at the moment of the maturity of the claim, i.e. the default of debt and settlement from this publishing right. Therefore, it is a small benefit from this formulation, that any matter which can be available can be pawned, which, under the bill of law, takes into account the physical possibility of being available, is too much to be considered by this law, rather than the right of property. It's a small charm, and it's too bad. There are few things, such as abandoned things, which are more significant values, actually there are no such things, which could be the subject of supply. These things are small values. Such things only bring legal uncertainty. I'd say another argument in favor of what I've been saying so far. For example, I'm the co-owner of a company, so I could get some facilities on the lease. These facilities can now, completely undisturbed, stock up, under the bill of this law, which will not cause any problems in the event of debt default. But in case the debt isn't settled on the deadline, there'll be trouble with the bill. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to specify precisely, in accordance with the legal system and the Law on Liabilities, that it is moving matters in property. We also suggested changing Article 9's position so that instead of saying "things of a kind" it should stand, because it is fully in line with the Law on Liabilities and the Legal System, "consumable and replaceable things", and the other words would be deleted. Paragraph 2 reads: "Trusts can be placed and moving things set by type, if the pledge agreement is a certain amount or number and the way they can differ from other things of the same kind".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30051	The time for your discussion is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30052	Thanks, I'll be done right away. This is where the words "determined by species" should be deleted and the words "consumable and replaceable things" should be said. As I said before, it is in the spirit of the Law on Liabilities and the Legal System.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30053	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? He's not answering. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) The word has a People's MP Rajko Baralic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30054	Mr. Minister, Mr. Orlic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with colleagues Joco Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. I would also read the amendment and its explanation: "The subject of hostage law can be the mutilated throats of cattle, horses, other animals, bees of society, flocks of livestock and fish. The amendment provides for the possibility for farmers, farmers, persons whose agriculture is one of the activities or additional activity to speed up their production of milk, meat, eggs, fish, honey, etc., based on the stock of mobile goods. In conditions where the unscheduled catastrass cannot provide mortgage credit, this solution is valuable. "There are two motives for which we have decided to submit this amendment. The first is that indeed agricultural producers are not in a position to obtain appropriate loans, which are valuable to them, due to uncleared property relations, unscheduled land books and catastras. The second is that, in the case of the Cachak municipality budget, I will try to explain how even when there is money for this purpose, because of the legal constraints in the Budget Law, it is not possible to achieve it, it is not possible for farmers to get adequate assistance. The budget of the Municipality of Cačak for this year, with the will of the council of the Municipality of Cačak, provides significant financial resources for the lending of farmers. Because, under the Budget Law, it is not possible for the budget to directly lend to agricultural producers, but it has to go through psoling banks, 57 agricultural producers cannot achieve this right, although they have, even though they have, by means of a decision from the relevant commission, the funds have been obtained. We thought this was one way to help people who wanted to pawn the animals they had. We avoided the term "basic flock", because it is an accounting term, and for individual agricultural producers that term would mean nothing. Our intention was good. We tried to get this idea through a few more members of this bill. I also found a foothold for this in the book of Honorable Professor Orlic. I think fellow MPs might accept this. I participated, along with my colleagues, in the promotion of this law, in the work of the Finance Committee. I have to admit, at the Finance Committee meeting there, I was heard with more attention than I did here last night, when I tried to talk in principle about the bill. I would like to thank the members and those present for the Committee on Finance, of course, as well as the representatives of the Government. At the Finance Committee session, I received assurances that what we are proposing here, but also other amendments, is understood. If so, and we believe in the minister's word, let it remain that way. However, I would like to say that, immediately after the law comes into force, we will check that it is possible. Our intention was quite concrete. I've been given an explanation that these amendments don't need to be submitted because such a thing is meant. I have to say, I still don't think that's what I was told. I have to say, too, there are situations that are very delicate, so it happens that it's not possible. But the practice remains to show whether I was right, along with my colleagues with whom I submitted the amendment, or whether they were right, Mr. Minister and his cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30055	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? He doesn't want to. ) We are moving to the amendment to Article 11, which was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30056	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party to Article 11. I submitted the proposal for a law on the law of law on movement matters entered in the register primarily because of the fact that Article 1 - "Until it is written informed of the origin of the right of the debtor of the claim (which means that he does not have to) meet his obligation to the stockholder" - changes that it reads: "The origin of the right to seek the debtor of the claim is writtenly informed of the existence of a pledge contract". The proposal is to delete Article 2. So, this stance has no purpose, if the Serbian Radical Party's proposal is accepted, of a rule of law, when the debtors are informed in writing of the existence of a pledge contract. The amendment complies with the Law on Liabilities and does not leave an alternative to the obligation of notification of the existence of a pledge agreement. On the bill of law, I have an objection so much that it has introduced official greening in our country. Because if the stock can be what is freely available, and it has no right to property, as well as the property that will be acquired in the future, these are some terms that I cannot figure out. Be careful, Mr. Church and Lekic have the property of RTS at their disposal. That's a fact. They're acting like Turkish odors 500 years ago, abolishing transmissions, getting complete equipment, frequency, all that's national wealth, like they own themselves. Free of charge, not their property, but free of charge, that term that you have introduced into the law. They act like it's theirs or they get some orders to act like it. A similar situation is in Kosovo. This law suits them, too. Mr Steiner acts as if all the property in Kosovo and Metohija is his personal property, because he can freely dispose of the property. Even triggers some initiatives, you're probably familiar with, through this privatisation he wants to conduct, rents land for 90 years. These are some of the things that make access to this law possible in a completely different way. I hope this amendment will be accepted, so that at least some of this bill can be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30057	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30058	Article 11(1), although the whole member is actually contained in Article 989. The law on bond relations is a legal norm that is absolutely unsustainable. Because the legal norm that starts with "until it's written" - in my opinion, as someone who really advocates that legal norms have some rules, there must be some mandatory rules that we have to follow - it's totally unsustainable. The provision "can and don't have to" doesn't mean anything. We are for imperative legal norms, because only such norms are absolutely clear. That is why we ask, first of all, for a change to take place in attitude 1, so that it reads: "The creation of a right to a hostage on a request by the debtor of a hostage claim is writtenly informed of the existence of a pledge contract". This "existence of a pledge contract" I see now that it's too high for me. So it would have to be mandatory. It's a claim, it's practically moving on to another person, and he needs to be informed there's a supply on that claim. There's no "can or can't." Article 989. The law on bond relations says: "In order to obtain the right to a claim, it is necessary for the debtor to be informed in writing of the closing of the pledge agreement". This legal norm already states that it is imperative, i.e. that it is mandatory, by insisting, under point 2 and that the stockholder is obliged to hand over the claimant's claim. So the proof of someone's rights is followed by this whole claim. The second position of Article 11, which is excessive here in that sense, if a change of attitude is accepted 1, we ask that it be deleted, although it is as it is said that "the pledges of claim under Article 1 of this Article may be notified by the depositor or by the trustee" shall mean nothing if there is no obligation which must be imperative in paragraph 1. Then what it says, I can do one, or the other, this one will say, he says this one will, none will notify, suffer the third, or debtor who has yet to make peace with the trustee, and he wasn't one of the contractors at the time when the pledge contract was concluded. I get the impression, Mr. Minister, when you listen to me, that there's a lot of things you're getting along with, and that you'd probably, if you were to decide on it on your own, you'd accept a lot of things here. Because the essence wouldn't change much by accepting these amendments, and you'd get a much better law. I don't plead, and I'm not saying that in norming and submitting the amendments, we've been more expert than the people in the Ministry in charge of preparing this law. Yours must be an idea, and it's known who's working on it, but here, this time, and usually we do, we've prepared well, and we've submitted these amendments to the entire legal order that would significantly improve the text of the law. So I'm really sorry that I don't have the opportunity to read what the people at the Ministry who were doing on the bill wrote to us when they explained to us that some of these amendments, and I guess everything, don't accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30059	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. If no one answers for a word, we move on to Article 12. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has the word of MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30060	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear professor, as the vice president has already said, the three of us, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, submitted this amendment to Article 12. The bill's proposal, and just to remind you that there are co-ownership stakes here; Article 12 says that co-ownership of moving things or the sum of moving things can be held in stock. The ideal part of property rights can be pawned. We have suggested that this article be complemented, that it be changed so that it reads: "A co-owner's share, moving things or a set of moving things can only be held by the consent of all co-owners. The ideal part of property rights can only be pawned with the consent of other owners." We believe that this precision is very important and that it pleases all co-owners of moving things or collecting mobile things, and that they can by stock disrupt the business, or the company's credit rating, or produce a bad voice that would reduce the appearance of good and household business. That is why we insist on this solution that we offer. We think that we need the consent of other co-owners, or when it comes to the ideal part, or when it comes to joint assets on a moving matter; we know that even in the case of immovable things in co-owners or ideal parts, it has been a practice so far, and I think that practice exists, there is even a legal obligation to offer co-owners in the traffic of the piece of movine or in the ideal part, where it is not known exactly what part of it is, and this co-ownership is determined and knows what part of the property belongs to this co-ownership. Since it's about moving things, we think it's more important to consult other co-owners in the supply process, and that way that stock has one, let's say, better validity. We do not think that this solution will bother either the spirit of the law or disrupt the fundamental idea of the legislator; it is, it will be a little complicated in the stock of the common property because it requires the consent of other co-owners, but we think it is a better correction and it will not interfere with the spirit of the law, but will more precisely determine this member, by asking for consent and other co-owners, whether it is an ideal piece or this other form of co-ownership.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30061	Do any of the other participants want a word? The word is from MP Ljubomir Mucic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30062	Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that this member is very important, precisely because of what we did yesterday at the end of the debate, both family and society and everything else, given that I advise those who have not read, to read "The Head of Sugar" and to compare it with this member. I'm sorry Milovan Glisic is from Valjev. We've read it a lot, but I suggest to others. You know better about sugar, I don't understand. This article is very important, given that it regulates the area of supplying the co-ownership part of the moving matter or the ideal part of the property rights. It was a long time ago, but it seems to me that we were read by the Law on Marriage and Family, where, when we were married, we were told that property acquired in marriage was considered common property. This member can very importantly determine to protect the family in this part, and in the part of the spouses, and also their children, considering that lately, at least with me in Valjevo, as the economy is in a catastrophic state, there is a creation of small family companies, regardless of whether it is small businesses or significant businesses. So in that part, spouses and children have a proper share. So I think it's very important to protect these assets, so that children for various reasons or one of their spouses, through some kind of break-in into some lobby and ruin, don't sell the entire property because of this co-owner or ideal piece. Therefore, we have suggested that a co-ownerial share of the moving matter or the collection of mobile items can only be held by the consent of all co-owners. So, my share in the truck, as co-owner, because the truck can only be registered to one person, you can't register on two faces. When you buy a car, you get an invoice on one person. Based on that invoice, no matter what you're co-owners, or on a farm machine, it's registered and you've pawned that right as a real owner. What if a wife shows up as co-owner or neighbor as co-owner of a tractor that's registered to me? In that case, will the law entered in the court register produce a legal fact, as proposed in Article 4? That's why I think it's very important, because of Article 4, because of the judicial procedure and all these provisions, to make sure that the share in co-ownership property can only be deposited with the consent of all co-owners, that we don't get into the problem of immovable property. There's a lot of problems, but there's an even bigger problem with movable property. Also, an ideal part of some property rights which, through securities of value or some intellectual property, can only be placed in stock with the consent of all co-owners or all those who are participants in the whole right, regardless of which the stockholder is the owner of the ideal part of that right. Finally, for good purposes, I think it is necessary to accept this amendment, as well as the amendment to Article 3, around the place where the contract is concluded, which is also very important, in order to avoid the conclusion of a contract in other municipalities or registers on another territory. By the time you guys check in and find out, I think we can get through the train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30063	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have witnessed inflation regulations in our country in the last two years. I would say that this matter of the law on the law of law on freedom of movement is quite regulated in the Law on Liaison, from Articles 966 to 997. In addition, this matter is partly governed by the Implementing Procedure Act. If we analyse the proposed provisions individually, with the explanation given by the promoter, we can conclude that this argument is absolutely unacceptable, because it is not, as it were. In fact, the proposal provided for 68 provisions in the law, but on two pages it gives reasons for the whole law. That's not allowed. The promoter was obliged to give a valid, broad, precise, clear, logically understandable explanation, that MPs could understand it, and in addition, that certain concepts were cleared, that they would be separated and that tomorrow this law could be applicable in practice without any difficulty. From Articles 9 to 14. There's nothing to say. Therefore, the SRS points out that the Law on Bond relations in JJVIII's head, in detail, elaborated this matter, namely: the question of general provisions; the pawning of things and social property; the acquisition of the right to publishing; the ability to obtain the right of pawn; the pledge of things already in place and second; the pledge of future or conditional obligation; the stretching of supplies to other stockholders' obligations; the prohibited provisions; the obligations of the stockholders; the obligation of the stockholders; the use of the pawned stuff; the fruit of the pawned matter; the removal of things from the stockholder; the rights of the stockholder when the pawned thing has some disadvantage; the sale of things incurred from the contract in the economy; the sale of the things before the time and the loss of its value and its purposes; the sale of the things at issue of time, the request of the law; the over-requiring of the over-restation of the law; the law; We have provisions in the Bond Relations Act, too, on page 286 of Article 982, which speak of the following: notification of debtors and sale of documents; giving and pledgeing of a request for securities of value; duty to keep claims; charging and accounting of interest; collection of a claim; objections to a debtor's rights; and the provision of other rights, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled a large number of amendments and the SRS MPs have given due attention to the submission of these amendments and the development of this matter. We suggest that the amendments of the SRS MPs should be accepted, for reasons to improve the text of this bill. That is why we believe it is necessary for the registration of the right to be carried out only on a proposal from the trustee. If you leave it and allow the debtor to have the right to do so, then you will put him in a position of trustee that he can often be played, that he can be deceived, that he who runs the register may also be deceived, according to the Law of Executive Procedure, which was brought in 2000, and it is foreseen... (President: five minutes. I'll finish right away, please. It is predicted that greater rights are given to the trustee in the collection of our claims, because so far we have, in the past until 2000, the protection of the debt lobby and therefore should now protect the trustee in every way possible so that he does not suffer damage. Therefore, the SRS suggests that without the consent of an ideal owner and co-owner, in no case should the right be entered in the relevant register which, to say the same, is not yet specified, and the previous question, the adoption of this law, in my opinion and the opinion of the SRS, is the adoption of a register law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30065	Six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30066	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30067	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30068	The DSS amendment to Article 12 suggests adding Article 12 to Article 3 which would read briefly and clearly: "It can also be pawned". Article 1 regulates the commitment of co-ownership of the moving matter. Article 2 regulates the involvement of an ideal part of property rights, with the proposal of the law, and Article 12 neither provides for the possibility of being a pawn and a common thing. The common property is in our right equal kind of property with other kinds of property, and the common thing is that the share of commoners are not defined, but they are specific. That's the definition of the law. We believe, regardless of the advocacy and attitudes with various counsellings, that a common property should be abolished in our right, because it is a job that would require a fundamental amendment to the Law on property relations, and in this case it is the Law on Fundamental Property, that is, about these legal relations, and it would require the amendment of all laws that regulate property issues. Whether to overcome this opinion, it is possible that legislators already represent this opinion that the common property should be eliminated from our legal system, but this law does not give the possibility to advocate a common matter. A common matter, a concrete example, can be acquired in a marriage or out-of-marriage community, why not allow mates to pawn a matter, so that this proposal for this law is not limited, nor prohibited, and that means that a bonding relationship law is applied, and therefore there does not have to be one person on the side of the stockholder. They may also be commoners on that side of the lender, and therefore this amendment should be accepted in full, if for no other reason, then we stress that all types of property are equal, because here a kind of discrimination is not accepted by advocacy of a common matter. I expect you, Mr. Minister, to accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30069	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. A bill that is in the process and I want to remind the minister in the introduction, when I spoke about the Law on concessions, and there was the Law on Financial Lissing, that I also said that there was no environment to pass the law, and I believe that the minister has done well on purpose and very professionally, although the concept of the SRS does not accept this way, because we believe that this is the Law on Bond Relations could be resolved, but I would not now, my colleagues, the MPs of the SRS, have already spoken of it. I'd just have to remind myself, and about this article, I'll explain it more in detail later, that there really wasn't an ambience for the realisation of this law, for the simple reason it's not precise enough, and that inaccuracy can be misused. We want to make this precision administratively possible, to be applicable in practice. I don't want to remind you now, but I have to say that the Privatisation Act was also passed with a series of failures, without accepting the amendments to the SRS, and then suddenly Dragan Veselinov abused it, and you said - I don't care about that, I'm only interested in the technical and legal thing that you've put forward as an amendment. However, you must be interested because you are in that same chain, because you are a link in that chain; of course, I respect what you have advocated and what you have explained, but I think you must make sure that the entire government is responsible for all the bad laws that have been passed. So, by applying the amendment to Article 13(3), where it is said that the trustee has the right to request that the pledge register be enlisted in the right to future matters, I understood what it is about when it comes to the right to the future, because I am a businessman, because I think it is actually the fruits that are yet to come, therefore, mainly the products that are in the foundation and which are expected of the income, that is, the results, that is, the fruits of that work. It's okay. However, I believe that not only does the trustee have the right to request that the stock register be entered, but that the right to the future is necessarily entered in the register of stocks, and now I will explain it. Why do I think, or MPs of the SRS, it is necessary. Taking into account that Article 4 refers to the fact that the trustee obtains the right to enter the register, this member of the trustee, if he does not have the will to register, does not obtain the right to sign in to the register. So, he just doesn't have the right to be pawned. There's something that can be misused. So, trustee, I'm going to tell you in particular, it can be in one dry year where the elemental accidents are, it just doesn't take a risk with the lender. In this way, he will avoid making a claim that year, but next year, when the gender is ploughed, he will be the one to take off the Kajmak, get from these ministers or government, who are not related to this law and to be exclusive exporters, for example. seed corn for 6.5 euros per kilogram. Is that what the greenies are? They're greeners. That's what the SRS is about to show you, and it has to be specified that the trustee is obliged, obliged to sign up for the stock register, because that would avoid what I tried to explain to you in my amendment... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... As far as I've been able to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30071	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president, SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30072	Here's how only in one sentence in Article 13 can virtually replace everything you've written in three positions. It is indisputable that the subject of a hostage right can be things or rights that the depositor will just obtain in the future, and this is seen from previous members of the law. That's what the Bond Relations Act predicts. It is only necessary to provide for the obligation to register. So it logs into the register and there's the point. Then there's no need to have this other one, or this third attitude. The second view states that the right to pledge is when the right to property acquires property on matters, i.e. the right to claim or other property rights, which can already be property rights, and the right to lease, both state and so on. Unnecessarily three attitudes that actually want the same thing that we said with our amendment, just much simpler. When you take a closer look at the spirit of the whole law and I can't find out now which member it stands in, that it can be future things, the subject of a hostage right to future things is necessarily entered into the stock register. And that, who's going to ask for enrolment, when they're going to ask for it, is the most normal thing to do is to put it on the register and every pledge contract that treats this law has to be entered in the register. Otherwise, it's not this stock. No one has answered me yet, why the provisions, if they are written down, or this one is asked, can be entered, must not be entered, when it is clear from the first article of the law that every pledge agreement must be entered in the register of stocks, and even when it comes to future matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30073	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 14 on which the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30074	In Article 14, the legislator does not specify the subject matter and matters of this bill, but lists it not to apply, for example, to aircraft, ships and the like. The best formulation in this article would be that this law does not apply to the immovableities and objects and things that, although mobile, have the character of immovableity and then indicate that they are ships, planes and dots. Otherwise, listing what it's not all about, that's a broad term. Mr. Pitić, let me take this time, in the speaking area of southern Serbia, a word and a nickname -- a pledge, we say so, and you say a bander in Belgrade, refers to people and the worst examples of the human species that exist. When someone gets a nickname like that, they're all ducking and loathing over a person like that. Here's Milka. She knows it's her thing, and she should wear that nickname. Mr. Pitić, imagine the consequences of this law, if a member of the family is a junkie, a criminal, and takes the entire family's property and the family is left with nothing and the next day these debt seekers or the services that are in charge of billing this pawn right and taking out all the moving things from the house, and the family is left with nothing. There'll be cases like that. There will be such breakdowns in families, so that he can do it without any guarantee that he owns all the property, maybe it's run on him, but he didn't gain it himself; then they take all the moving assets out of the house and remain a family in four walls, a family with little children. Here's another example, the daily papers yesterday announced that Deputy Prime Minister Korać came into possession of the Rolex manual. That Rolex timer becomes an item of stock at one of your pawnshops or agency, doesn't pay it back, and you reach out to Rolex. However, someone from the Zemun clan comes and says, "I'm sorry, we only gave it to him to wear, it's not his. He did a favor, you can't take the watch, because he doesn't own the bill that he bought that watch legally, but he just wore it on his hand. How are you going to collect that debt? Will you give up such a debt? You won't be safe. Here is another example, following yesterday's decision by the Constitutional Court that the mandates belong to the MPs and parliamentary mandates will be the subject of pledges. On BK TV last night, Bane Ivkovic says he is taking MPs into stock at 100,000 euros from the SPS. It's just that people can't be the object of supply, they're not objects. Such people are supplies, the way we speak down in southern Serbia. You obviously have lived in Canada for a long time, and I would recommend that you propose these things to them in Canada, so that this bad law does not cause great consequences for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30075	Is anyone else applying for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30076	I do not want to spoil my colleague Janjic's discussion, but in addition to this amendment, and regarding the principle of discussion that I have made, it is unacceptable that in one member of the law above which we have the superscription, the application of other regulations, we have two attitudes that speak about when the provisions of this law are not applied and one provision that speaks of the provisions of this law being applied to the stock, let's say, property rights, patents, models, patterns and so forth. It is common for the law to regulate what the law is applied to, not what it is not applied to. If we link this article to Article 10(3), which states that the subject of a hostage right can be other property rights that their owner can freely dispose of, then we can see that the whole member is practically completely excess. It is clear that, in addition to things, stocks can also be established on certain property rights, claims, copyright and invention rights, securities rights of value, as well as rights related to ownership relations, i.e. claims and only what they cannot do are rights relating to personality, which are rights of use, housing and fertilization. You could have put that in one of these two positions, if you wanted to define exactly what these laws don't apply to. Therefore, it is not possible to establish a pledge for the right to use, housing, fruiting, and that the provisions of this law apply to the provision of intellectual property rights, etc. as provided for in paragraph 3, it has already been contained in Article 10, and therefore we should have defined whether we would retain only this third member or only these first two. We felt that the first two should be deleted, for it is common for the law to regulate only what is applied to, and not what is not applied to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30077	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Đorđe Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, with the correction of the amendment, and MP Branislav Vakić, together submitted. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30078	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. I don't know if there's any need to explain the amendments, since there's no effect, at least tangible. We've heard that four of the DSS's ammdnams have been accepted, but we still don't know what amendments, so we expect to find out in good time. The amendment is very clear. It is not clear in the original text, because when typing the number is dropped - Article 15. The position of Article 1(4) is identical to Article 15, and therefore, by deleting this Article 15, there is no need for subtitle - the publisher. There is one very small, at first sight, even the invisible difference between Article 4(1) and Article 15. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 states that the trustee is entitled to enroll in the register of stocks. It's okay, and the whole law is exactly on that principle and proposed, and in Article 15 it says, it can be obtained, which is another argument for eradicating this Article 15, because it creates both real and legal delusions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30079	The word has been given by MP Branislav Vakic, as the applicant of the amendments in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have tabled an amendment to Article 15. In Article 4(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The bill states that the trustee obtains the right to enter the stock register, unless otherwise specified by the law. This is literally rewritten in Article 15, except that the added word "can" acquire the right to publishing. It is unnecessary to repeat the same text in two members. One bad and unserious law you're trying to make a serious increase in the number of members. The quality of the law depends not on the number of members but on the way the matter under the law is processed. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party Parliamentary Group, I request an amendment to delete the title above Article 15 and Article 15 because the same text is already in Article 4(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30081	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30082	Since everyone here has heard something, and we haven't heard anything, and I don't really know from which sources MPs know whether something has been accepted or not. Whether this has been discussed on the Committee, and the Committee has already agreed with some amendments, this would significantly affect the fact that we know about our discussion. But since we do not know whether our amendments are accepted or not, which they are, which are not and for what reasons, I would now ask the Minister to tell me about Article 15, given such a legal standard that the trustee can obtain the right to enter the register of stocks, unless it is otherwise laid down by law, when it is otherwise laid down by law. When he can, and when he can't. So, a concrete answer to what the purpose of this legal norm is, because you've actually given a very gnarly explanation under the law itself. The explanation should contain the objective of the law, meaning what we want to achieve with it, but it must also explain the individual legal norms, not just chapters, because the explanation contained in it only the name of the chapter for us MPs does not really mean anything. The purpose of the interpretation of each legal norm is a complete explanation with the law and we are just surprised when we read this law, that we have received such a smut explanation on one side for a law that has 60 and more members and which introduces a new institute into legal traffic. So just for the sake of understanding the whole matter, we need to know when it's different from the law, and we couldn't see it from this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30083	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Miomir Ilic and Golub Rajic submitted. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30084	The main idea of the Serbian Radical Party is to clearly specify the provisions of the law with this amendment. This is specifically about a member of the 16th where a third party is listed, and what is a bit strange for us Serbian radicals, which enables those third parties to deal practically with the work which is and how significant it is when it comes to the development of crime, which is the exorcision of debt. What does the promoter say? Trustees can identify a third party who will represent their interests and that is regulated by the contract. What's the point? Those persons, the stockholder, the trustee, are registered in the register, and the third person, by enrolling in the register, can be legally engaged in debt-depositing. Of course, our desire with this amendment is to prevent the consequences; the promoter had good intentions, but we need to be aware of the environment in which we live, what our climate is. Besides, here's your best example. Most of those who are now under indictment, 99% of them were engaged in debt evasion. How and in what way? In a way that wasn't regulated by law. They've been looking for holes in the law, and this is how we make it possible for them. That is why we appeal not to adopt such a law, because we will allow them to use that provision of the law to be debt seekers. There are reverse cases, but it's on state level. For example, lenders, in this case both governments, have designated a third person - Miroljub Labus. He, as a third person, goes and raises a five-billion-dollar loan, now moves on to this expert group called G-17+, so that would require this third person - an outcast. It's obvious that this face -- an enforcer -- will be the Democratic Party, because they realize they've had enough of those Miroljub Labus, but also those of you who propose such laws, and they're being robbed of their heads. Therefore, I urge you to accept this amendment, although it does not essentially change the law, but it prevents the possibility of something that is an extra-legal institution, or something that is contrary to other legal provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30085	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? He wants to. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30086	It is important, dear colleagues, that we return to what is important elements of the handheld, and what are the essential elements of this stock entered in the court register. First of all, it's the contractual sides, both in one case and another, it's the object of the supply, in the case of a handheld stock, it's the transfer of the state, and in this case it's the registration of the court register. Since it's a contractual relationship between specific persons, it's taken care of, because when you advocate a thing, you take care of who's going to be your partner. You don't care who gives you the money. I wouldn't be in charge of anyone, not even a living head. I'd keep a tight eye on who I'd be in charge of. Likewise, he who gives money will not give them to anyone, but will judge whether he can or cannot repay them, what he has, how he behaves, whether his affairs are legal or not. In this way, business partners choose each other, commit to something and register it. It's inadmissible to change the trustee in this way as planned. It's said that a hostage trustee can determine a third party to take some legal action. It's undeniable. It can do that, as it does for protection, as well as for the settlement of a hostage claim, but also in front of certain authorities in the collection process. He won't let anyone do it for him. But it must certainly be done in front of the competent state authorities. As it is written here, it can really be interpreted as Mr. Mircic said. It seems to me like the real legalizing of debt seekers. So this part remains that the trustee must remain the same, and the third party can only take legal action to protect and settle the hostage trustee. It must always stand in the register who is the hostage trustee, who is the hostage debtor, and there may be some record if a third party is allowed, or if that authority is granted, to take some legal action. It's the Institute of Records. Debtnik, the one who comes into the situation that needs to make a claim because he hasn't returned his debt, knows that when he shows up in front of the competent authority, that person is authorized by the trustee to be there in his name. There should just be a note about that third person, and there's no way that third person can get into the position of a hostage trustee. That's just inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30087	Are any of the other authorised representatives of the amendments coming forward? No, I don't. ) We move to Article 17, to which the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30088	Ladies and gentlemen, amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia to Article 17. The proposal for a law is similar to that given in the context of the reasons for the amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law. The amendment proposes to put an end to the word "things" and the rest of Article 1 - "or the property of a rightholder who can freely dispose of" - deletes. The right to make available, as a rule, represents property, i.e. it is covered by property. For reasons that I pointed out in the interpretation of the amendments to Article 9, we believe that abandoning the words "or the property of a rightholder who can freely dispose" improves the situation, because otherwise legal confusion can be created and the proper application of the law can be disabled. Could the object of the supply be the right of fruiting that I have, for that is the right that I am free to have? Maybe there's a right to something, because it's a right that I can feel free to do? However, this cannot be a matter of supply, and that is why we propose to delete these words, so that after saying "she has the right to property on a moving matter" we put the point and leave out the other words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30089	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? He doesn't want to. ) We move on to Article 18, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30090	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, Mr. Professor, Mr. Minister, as has been said, on Article 18, we have jointly submitted an amendment on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Rajko Baralic, Dusan Cvetkovic and myself. We suggest adding a third position in Article 18, which should read: "The pawn is obliged to keep animals, livestock, fish and bees in good shape and provide them with the necessary veterinary protection". This is a logical trail of our amendment to Article 9. The bill, because we have proposed to specify that these animals can also be placed in stock. We suggest that, in accordance with Articles 1 and 2, Article 18, point 3 is added to the text we have proposed, which would mean that it is treated as a good host to the herds, bees' societies, etc., which we have already proposed as an extension of opportunities in the law. When placed in a stock of other movable things, it is also the subject of the provision of lending opportunities for this production, which is deficiting and should be credited, especially when it comes to the lending of bee societies, rolling stock and animals which are the subject of the stock, we believe that, with the care of a good host, they must have all the necessary protection, in addition to quality nutrition and adequate veterinary protection, in order to ensure that the object of the stock remains in good condition and enable both the stockholder and the stockholder to fulfil their obligations. This disease or other disease-infected thing won't be able to effect the repayment of credits that are the subject of this application. In that sense, we have suggested, we believe that this amendment is quite correct, to be added to this article and to be specified both in Articles 9 and 18 and in these other options of supply. I think that the debates that we had on one of the committees started this topic, and I think that even then the professor agreed, and also the legislator, that this stock is possible and that Article 9 and Article 18 should be extended by this attitude. We think that this is good, to specify and that the Government, or the Proposer, should also accept the amendment to Article 9 and, in agreement, the amendment to Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30091	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 19. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Nebojsa Jovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30092	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, Honored Professor, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, along with MP Nebojsa Jovic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. A bill of this law. In this article, the Government proposed that the pledge agreement could provide for the obligation of the lender to provide for the subject-matter of the law. We propose, by amendment, that the pledge agreement in any case provides for the obligation to provide the stockholder with the relevant insurance organisation with the subject matter of the right to be held hostage. We managed the goal of creating as much confidence as possible that the trustee could collect his claim, which is why it is necessary for the pawned matter to be secured. Ensuring hostage matters will stimulate the trustee to enter into a debt-confidential relationship and to expand the size of business with his business partner, in particular with the stockholder. In the event of the occurrence of unforeseen events and the collapse of hostage matters, it is known that incomparably minor damage will be suffered both by the trustee and the stockholder if the hostage matter is secured. This applies to all the publishing rights. This doesn't matter if it's equipment, raw materials, finished products, goods, basic herds, cattle and other. Why do you avoid applying world practice here? It is known that in countries with developed economies it is unimaginable that the underlying assets are not secured, that I am not saying that the development of a country is also assessed by the development of the collateral. I mean insurance of both business assets and personal property in the household. If we want to follow the path of the market economy, then the amendment will be accepted and a provision will be incorporated into the law that the subject-matter must be secured. The insurance cost burden under the insurance contract, according to the policy, is much lower than the risk of an unsecured thing falling. Otherwise, a good businessman and a good host always provides movable and immovable property. If the stockholder is well-intentioned and secure, it will not be a burden for him to secure that property and to conclude such a contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30093	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Đura lazic and Sreten Mitrovica submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has the word of Parliamentarian Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30094	On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, we have submitted an amendment in the part of the right of the stockholder to state and use. We have submitted an amendment to Article 20 in order to specify more precisely. Article 20 is amended and it reads: "The publisher has the right to hold the subject of the law and to use it according to his usual purpose. If the maturity does not meet the obligation to the hostage trustee, the depositor shall lose his right to state, if by law and contract it is not otherwise provided." As I was saying, the proposed amendment defines more precisely the state and application of the subject-matter of the law, as well as the possibility that a contract may prescribe a state-owned contract, even in the event that the depositor does not fulfil the obligation to the issuer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30095	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30096	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, in principle debate yesterday, pointed to the fundamental shortcomings of this bill, and today we are trying to correct these shortcomings with amendments, if the government's representative has the hearing to accept this or at least part of those amendments. Personally, I am afraid of the practical application of this law, given that, according to this proposal, the law and the natural persons can be lenders. I'm afraid we're going to get into a situation very quickly that a large number of poor people for existential reasons, for mere survival, start to apply this law and use the benefits or opportunities it provides, to take on various loans, loans, to advocate their movable assets, and thus run out very quickly without that movable property. Our citizens have a bad example in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is daily in debt to the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other financial organisations, and which mainly puts these loans directly into the budget, i.e. consumption. It's a very big problem for this country. If Serbian citizens take the example by bad example of the Serbian government, then they will quickly come into the situation to remain without the moving assets they will pledge. So, which they're going to have to pawn to get the funds, the loans, the money, for mere survival. By applying this law, I'm afraid very quickly, that's what I said yesterday, we're going to bring this society to a great dispersion, and we're going to isolate a layer of rich people who are going to have money and capital to give it as creditors, and on the other hand there's going to be a large number of poor women who are going to be forced to use the possibility of this law. Article 20 speaks of the rights of the depositor and the second position, which he himself submitted to the amendment, states that if he does not fulfil his obligation to the issuer, the depositor loses his right to the state. We don't have a way of formulating and formulating this kind of formulae that's not clear enough and accurate enough. We tried to correct it with the amendment and to make it clear, so we replaced these words, "the publisher is losing his right to the state," by saying "the trustee is gaining the right of the state". I think that's more accurate, in order not to in practical terms create a variety of misunderstandings and problems, it means that they are precisely formulate. If this is essentially the same, however, to be more precise, that the trustee obtains the right of the State if the depositor does not fulfil his obligations within the time limit provided for in the contract. I think that this should be accepted and nothing fundamental changes, but in practice it can lead to many ambiguities and problems if this is the kind of formulation that the promoter predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30097	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30098	If we had a little more time, believe me, we'd have a lot more amendments. Now, getting ready to explain these amendments, I can see that we could have asked a lot more in this Article 20, or we could have asked for the erasure of both Articles 1, 1 and 1 of Article 3, because they are already contained in some other members. This first position - "Publisher and after enrolling in the register of stocks has the right to hold the subject matter of a hostage right" - is already contained in Article 1. This comes from the first position of the first member of this law and from the title. There's no need to mention here. This arises from Article 1 of this Act and from the title of the law. There's no need to mention here. Item 3: "The publisher is authorised to use the subject of the right to be held hostage according to his usual purpose", is already contained in Article 18: "The publisher is obliged to maintain the subject of a hostage right by the good host, or a good businessman, "to maintain it in the proper state and to perform the necessary work on it". So there's no need to repeat that. Position 2. and the amendment provided for in Article 2 is indeed in line with the superscription above Article 20 which speaks of both state and use, i.e. the right of the lender and cannot then be spoken of as the obligation of the lender. Then write down what the rights are. It would be a much clearer provision for the trustee to gain the right of the state, not for the depositor to lose his right to the state. It is the same effect, but this moment of acquisition of the right of the state is very important, since they can be agreed, and that is foreseen by the Law on Bond Relations, and that they stick together. If they put that stock in the register, it's this stock. Minister, what if they agree to stick together and keep things together and they can make a deal? What's the stake and what's then, we haven't regulated it anywhere in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30099	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Rajko Baralić, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic submitted to the 21st Amendment together. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ) The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30100	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 21, which has been submitted by the SPS parliamentary group, is the consequence of previous amendments that we have asked for the right to obtain both objects or living things that give certain fruits, i.e. provisions of life. As for this amendment, I think we have also agreed through previous amendments that it is acceptable and that these provisions should be entered into the text of the law. Our proposal is to add in Article 21 after the text in paragraph 1 "If the subject of a hostage right produces fruits, the stockholder is authorised to collect them as well" "if the subject of a hostage right has a reproductive capacity or produces certain life supplies". I've heard here from an MP that the subject of hostage law is also a parliamentary mandate. I suggest that he has his own income on the basis of his parliamentary mandate, there is no need for us to interfere, but I do not think that he too has the need to interfere in the parliamentary mandates of the MPs of other political parties in this House. For this reason, I believe that the amendment that we have proposed here, that the stockholder collects his fruits, and let others think for themselves. I think that this amendment is of the utmost importance, given that it gives security to the lender, that, on the basis of the proceeds he has made on the basis of the items he has made, he can make a profit, he can benefit himself, he has made his commitments to the hostage trustee, and that he is also provided by the publisher and the legislator. Also, I think that we have agreed with Article 2, if that is foreseen in the case of the contract, the stockholder may grant the hostage trustee that he obtains income or results on the basis of the law of the hostage and thus enters annuities, i.e. in the repayment of loans on that basis. That's why I think the amendments proposed on this basis are a really good example that in the next period, a more secure security and payment of debt-confidential relations can be made, above all, in the area of economy, agriculture and small businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30101	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have reached what is called the alienation of the subject of a hostage law and of Article 23, which I have submitted an amendment to before the SRS parliamentary group, namely to seek to erase some of its views, which I will explain. However, even a much better variant is to completely delete Article 23, which regulates the alienation of the subject of hostage law, because what stands in Article 23 is the negation of the hostage rights that you advocate as some legal surrogate, a new institute which, as Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic said yesterday in the principle debate, was declared to be the principles of accessorship, priorities, specialities, etc. That principle of accessorship, which is related to the basic claim, is mentioned in Article 23. Anyone who passes it on to a third party, actually brings stock to fate that this process follows. As has been said many times yesterday, and above all by the MPs of the SRS, this part of the law denies the inaugural right, in fact this member, in particular, is contained in the Law on Liaison. Minister, you should know that I've contracted a pledge to regulate that the stockholder has the ability to dispose of things himself, so he owns it. If you go out and pass it on to another person, then you've created a situation that you've tied the stock to the existence of the very thing, not the right that the debtor has in that thing. That's why we think it's pointless that there's a member like this in the 23rd century. Secondly, I asked to delete Section 3 because it was supposed to be tied to Section 2, if you leave this member behind. You said that the obligations of Section 2 of this article have also been made by a new owner. Well, wasn't it more normal to put in position 2 - the stockholder and the new owner are obliged to apply without delay for the admission of the right to register on the burden of the new owner? Secondly, in Section 4, which I also ask to be deleted, but again I say the best option is to delete the entire Article 23, because the purpose of the stock is lost, it is said: "The publisher and the new owner of the hostage law are solidly suited to the hostage trustee for the damage that can result from their failure to enroll in the register of stocks the hostage right of the new owner". Well, it's an obligation to register. You know what, no one in the supply contract can be fooled by not entering the register. That would be a kind of scam. You can't have your colleague Bozidar Djelic, who bought a South convertible in the flag twice the same car to pawn, right? I don't know what you own, they didn't publish that long list for you, or Covic his FMP who took it along the way, right, can't do one thing twice, and it's mandatory to log in and register. Maybe some player, I don't know, Covic has a longer list of what he could pawn. I think it would be best if the final position were erased -- if the stockholder were to be subject to a hostage right of sale within his regular activity, the buyer was to acquire property without a burden -- because it would be a kind of legalisation of fraud and we feel that this position of this member should also be deleted, but it is best to remove Article 23 and that what is related to Article 23 is subject to the Law on Liabilities or even better under the Charter of Values Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30103	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30104	The amendment of the DSS is to put "a good host, a good businessman" instead of saying "a reasonable and careful man" in Article 27. I do not think there should be much justification for this amendment, because the words we propose "good host, or good businessman" are in the spirit of the Law on bond relations and in the spirit of the legal system. Since this law also relies on the Law on bonding relations, which is perfectly normal, we believe that the proposed solution "reasonable and careful man" is not in the spirit of law and legal system. You know, a reasonable man is, in any case, an unreasonable man doesn't even have a business ability, an unreasonable man can't possibly appear as a contractor. On the other hand, a careful man is a specific that is not clear enough, because someone can be careful either against the opposite sex, why not, and is not careful with the provisions of the contract. This formulation that extends from Roman law and which is accepted in our legal system and in the Law on Obligation Relations "good host, i.e. a good businessman" fully explains the essence of the matter and identifies how the contractor's behaviour in this contractual relationship is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30105	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30106	Very briefly, we believe that Article 28. The bill should be deleted. Our assessment, and also in terms of legal certainty, is necessary and desirable that a natural person as a stockholder should not have a different status and should not be otherwise regulated, and therefore this member of the law should be deleted because the possibility of a natural person appearing as an entrepreneur, i.e. as part of business activities, is set out in Article 27. I could give a closer explanation for the farmer when it comes to credit, loan, or when it appears as a contractual party under a loan agreement or under a lease agreement, and it appears as an economic person, or as an economic operator, meaning that special provisions and a special Article 28, which would treat a purely natural person outside of business activity in a different way, is unnecessary, creating confusion and in the application of the law will create certain difficulties. We consider it necessary to apply the law uniformly to all contractors, i.e. all persons, regardless of whether they are legal or natural persons engaged in certain economic activities, and in this capacity it is covered by Article 27, so that natural persons who are not engaged in economic activity, as provided for in Article 28, should not be singled out, and therefore the removal of this article is proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30107	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 31 and 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sl. Pavlovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to read a member of my amendment. "The order of the championship between the pawn's rights entered in the register of stocks and the publishing rights created by the handover of the pawned matter in the state's trustee is determined according to the time of the formation of the relevant publishing right. If the registration into the stock register precedes the surrender to the state, the registered publishing right enjoys the championship. If the stockholder first handed over the matter in a state-owned one trustee, and then requested to register for the benefit of another trustee, the trustee in whose state-owned matter enjoys the championship. The right acquired by surrender in the State shall enjoy the championship in respect of a later law entered in the register of stocks, if it is based on a pledge contract concluded in written form and certified in a court or other body authorised to authenticate the signature. "On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31. I have proposed to delete this member and the title above it. There are two reasons why I believe that the proposing and fellow MPs will adopt this amendment. The first that Article 31 has already been regulated in Article 30. The draft law, and paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, are contrary to the general provisions of the law and the proposed application of the law would lead to unnecessary disputes, which could inevitably be resolved and resolved only before the competent courts. The second reason for eradicating this article is also the final position which provides that the application contract is certified in a court or other body authorised to authenticate the signature. If there is a register of a pledge contract run by a competent state authority, it is a public document and there is no need to verify it in court. The government, however, is predicting a register, but it did not remember to specify which authority is running the registry. And the bill itself says in several places that the pledge agreement can be entered in the register, and since it can - it means it doesn't have to. It is unclear what the government and the competent ministry will do against those who do not register these contracts. This opens up the possibility of abuse and misleading a hostage trustee. Your laws are conceived exactly in a way that is more for abuse than for use.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30109	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30110	By amendment of the DSS to Article 31, paragraph 4, we propose that after the text, "the right acquired by surrender in the state enjoys the championship in relation to the later law entered into the register of stocks" point, and the words "if it is based on a pledge contract concluded in writing and certified in a court or in another body authorised to approve the signature" to be deleted. The proposed solution favours the written form of the pledge agreement and certified before the court. I will remind you that under the Law on Bond Relations, a pledge agreement is a real and informal contract. Here's the thing, this member puts in terms of a variety of stocks and stock priorities. Therefore, by leaving the proposed position 4, a written contract was favoured before the court, which as such did not exist under the Bond Relations Act and existed in practice at all. We therefore consider this type of contract, which was not mandatory under the Law on Liabilities, to be favoured, although there is no basis in positive law, because it is the essence of the pledge to provide claims rather than the form of a court contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30111	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The title above Articles 32 and 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked with my amendment to delete Article 32, which reads: "The trustee who claims that the matter was handed over to him in the state before he entered the stock register for the benefit of another trustee is obliged to prove that there was a transfer to the state before the register was registered. "Article 32 shows senselessness and Article 5. The bill, where a pledge contract is expected to be entered, but it doesn't have to, in the register. In this way, it is possible for one thing or part of a mobile asset to be made available to more than one trustee multiple times. It is, therefore, the essence of a good law to minimise the possibility of abuse that will result in the application of the law itself. This is how we have a register, which doesn't have to sign a contract, we have an article 32. A bill that allows, means that someone in front of a court is proving whether or not a case was given to him in the state. However, by accepting this amendment, unnecessary litigation would be avoided. The only thing that would apply before the law is a contract that's registered in the register.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30113	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30114	In my explanation for this amendment, I said, "Will Minister Djelic comply with Article 34. The bill of power to enter private citizens' possessions, list movable assets, unilaterally establish the right to stock and register in order to collect tax claims? "Believe me, I had no intention of Caricing when I wrote that only Minister Djelic could do it, because I am convinced that no official can be found within the Ministry who can be forced or ordered to go to private houses, to carry out such a warrant and to seek valuable things, valuable properties on private property. Who is he in that case, who will determine what is the object of the supply? Does that mean that a civil servant will come into someone's house, watch what could be the object of the supply, so if he can't see anything like this at first sight, then he'll go through the drawers and look for valuables, diamond rings, etc. That's why I think this article is pointless, and that's why I suggested that it be deleted. It should be borne in mind that there is a right to the will of the parties. That means, Mr. Minister, a pledge contract is a two-sided legal job, so no one, not even the state, can be unilaterally defined when it comes to the stock. For each stock, there must be two parties. You agree. I understand that this member could apply, say, in MK Komerac, if Mr. Kostic doesn't pay his taxes, then the competent authority goes and sends his face, so in his warehouses he finds more sugar, if they happen to remain from export. That's where this law could be applied. How can this member apply to a family, if unfortunately these families have an unconscious member, irresponsible, gullible, who, on behalf of the family, was to pay for taxes, spend on drugs, on alcohol. Why now would the family suffer by having Minister Djelic send a representative of the ministry, i.e. the administration of income to go home and take everything that can be taken, so that he can take whatever is worth in that house and leave his family with nothing. Who is he and among the MPs who will vote against this amendment, who will take such responsibility; someone from fellow Members yesterday said that the application of this law will endanger many families, destroy many families. I completely agree with that, and, above all, this article 34, whose erasure I have suggested, will do evil in the Serbian family.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30115	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30116	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, in the light of the law, it says more about these members, from 29th to 34th, which predict the order of the publishing rights, except what is written, that in part of the six drafts of the law, rules are prescribed to determine the order of payment of the rights, so probably the amendment would be different. Maybe you wouldn't exactly require a wipe. In the meantime, I remembered that the Law on the Budgetary System has established the right of supply and that Minister Djelic already has the right to establish a supply of taxes and other taxes, such as taxes or other taxes that go towards the state authority, i.e. according to customs, but then it should have been foreseen in this law, because there, as I recall, is not foreseen when it is established, when it is entered into the register and it is not enough to say that the order of the championship is determined according to the time of their registration in the register. Because the Law on the Budget System does not provide for that right to be entered in the register, since there was neither a register at the time, nor was there this kind of stock, but only a manual stock, and it was not possible to establish a manual stock and we talked about it when the law was on the agenda. As a result, when voting in particular, the Government should take advantage of the possibility to submit, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an amendment amending Article 34 by supplementing it with provisions on when those claims of taxes and other duties are entered in the register. So, because of what Radeta's colleague said, and what's possible and what we can't agree on, of course, because no matter how normal it looks, we see what's going on, and we're aware that many will be unable to pay taxes. First of all, we're thinking about physical faces, we're not thinking about economics. For taxes, some other taxes and, of course, those unpaid taxes will be appropriate for their moving things. So, Article 34, the government itself should properly re-form by explaining, not so much because of us here who are going to vote on it, we will certainly vote against the law, but because of those to whom these provisions will apply and which of course this law will apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30117	Minister Goran Pitic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a chance to comment on some of what we've had to hear today. It is evident that we are moving forward and yesterday we had a principle debate in which I think we have managed to understand ourselves, what is the purpose of this law and most of the discussion today shows that we have made this shift forward in terms of understanding the importance of this law and the normal way in which regulation of this part of matter fills the gaps in legal regulation. I would like to say a few things that have been going on since yesterday, some principled fear or the rejection of certain fears, and even the catastrophic predictions that all of this will work on some of the institutions of this country, including family, including some other institutions, and calling for a possible coincidence of the application of this law as one of the potential factors or the main factors of ruining the basic values of all systems. I thank you for paying attention to this law, but I believe that these consequences are not close, but that they are absolutely not related to this law. On the contrary, there is also a chance that just by building an entrepreneurial spirit, new business relations, a relationship is created for the strengthening of the family and, among other things, by this development of business relations, by giving room to treat the pains of our society, which in no way can be linked to the creation of legal regulations, i.e. the position of the state as such. I think we are in one problem which implies understanding about key positions on the role of the state and on the will of the parties or on the leaving of market rules to form business relations and thus create and implement two concepts that put us in perspective of a different view of Serbia in the years ahead of us. So, the issue of a state as an institution that has paternalism for its basic field of action, I think is something that certainly does not apply this law, as well as in all legal proposals where the key to establishing a relationship between the parties to the contract, which is a business secret. This law is currently predicting that the system of registering the right to register the thing is being set up in a public way, which just provides for regulation of relations and rights and obligations both by the lender and the trustee of the hostage. I don't think laming over the situation in the family and tying to this law is correct. The problems in society, and especially in the family, as the hub of the development of all civil society relations, are mentioned here out of misunderstanding or may be politicizing what is really a problem, whether it's a drug abuse, whether it's a crime, whether it's some other thing, but we can't also say that it's something that relates to a short-term explosion of these manifestations, these deviations, or something that is normally an inherent problem of society, which occurred in the long run ahead of us. So on the one hand, we're different from the concept. I personally, and my colleagues in the government, represent the concept of a combination of the role of state and market in a way that the state should provide legal infrastructure, the building of institutions, to reach that limit after which businessmen should take the primate to regulate their relations. That's exactly the spirit of this law. And on the other hand, I don't think we understand each other exactly in terms of risk. Allow Serbian citizens to take risks for making their business decisions. Let's let them know the risks that exist, let's let them know how to read this law. Let's give them enough information, which is potential risks, but let's not tie them to the state, that the state will solve the problems they need to solve in their own locality. Let them create a framework, let them have room to deal with financial licking, let them give them space to deal with the law, to give the items in stock. Let us deal with drug abuse and other problems, other institutions and other ways, the universal construction of society and the universal descriptiveness and civilizational fluids of society in a way that these problems are solved by other methods, and not by this law, whose primary role is to ensure that a segment, which has not been regulated by the Law on Liabilities, which we have said and you agree is one of the most modern laws. It takes this part of a non-state, non-serious supply to regulate this law, not to interpret the modern law and then to see if we need to change the Bond Relations Act somewhere else, etc. The idea was to regulate this matter in one place and we differ in the position of what to do and where the state should be present and we differ in the position and belief that Serbian citizens can and should bear the risk of entering certain business ventures. Should citizens bear the consequences of that risk? Without accepting the consequences of that risk, we will always address whether the state will stand behind those who do not know how to assess its business risk. Let us build and develop the relationship in which risk creates and potential profit. Without it, there is no market economy. Without it, we will constantly, regardless of who is in power, look to the state to solve the problem of each individual, to solve the problem on the micronivore. I must say, that is not the case, even in countries where the state is present, the state in that part is not present. So, the state can have a larger or smaller presence in social life, but in normally developed countries or countries that plan to go to market economies, there is no position in which it wants to define what the risk is, in terms of direct responsibility, but it is in some way dimensional of such legal projects and it is precisely creating this framework for potential risk for individuals who want to enter a certain business arrangement. I normally commented on the subject of the family yesterday, so now I don't need to talk about it, and I don't want to talk about it. I'm glad Mrs. Pop-Lazic, as usual, was very active when it comes to amendments. I thank her for her comments, and before she essentially responded to the amendments of her colleagues. It's very helpful for me not to have to react to any comments. (Lazar Marjanski, from the place: say it publicly, that everyone hears it.) I can do that, that's exactly what I'm doing. I don't think that's in your favor. I'm taking this opportunity, this pay phone, to comment on all this. I would take the opportunity to comment on some of the remarks made by Mrs. Pop-Lazic. As for the objection that the law provides a set of imperial norms, I'm sure you'll agree with me that it's not a function of the law to frame the whole story in a way that it can't be moved, if it's a good thing to say, or that all norms have to be imperative. It is obvious that we are all referring to the Law on Bond Relations. I don't have a problem admitting that I'm an economist, because I respect the legal profession. I have just had the pleasure of having Professor Orlic suggest from the Law on Liabilities Articles 985, 977, etc., that they exercise here and that there are precisely those standards that provide opportunities for, for example, the trustee, if he will, to be able to, etc. There are formulations that exist in the Bond Relations Act. These are the formulations that exist in this law, you'll admit, and that's how they make very strong, even I'd say, imperative bond with the bonding law. As for some other things that have been said on Article 5(2), I'm just taking that as an example, I have no intention of entering every amendment in particular, because in the coming minutes you'll get government comments on the amendments, then I could say the following briefly. In Article 5(2), if the application is requested by the trustee, it is necessary to make an explicit statement by the lender that it agrees, you have made an amendment that it is mandatory. Yesterday, you were talking about the fact that on the one hand, it would either be the stockholders or, on the other hand, that those who give the money would get hurt too. So we're all gonna get hurt, and nothing positive is gonna happen. The idea of Article 5 is that space is given to the lender that he has to ask himself, means that he has an option to ask himself, that the trustee can't let him get into what he wants to be the subject of the stock, but that he has to make an explicit statement. Something similar is given in Article 37, which lays down special rights for natural persons, as well as one of the elements of the protection of the stockholder. These are precisely the elements that show that this law, such as the Law on Bond Relations, only in other forms of stock, protects creditors, has instruments to protect debtors. These are some of the principles that were followed by the letter of this law. Simply put, it follows the logic of the Law on Liabilities. I'd say just two more things, of course, not getting into a lot of details. I have to say that yesterday there were comments that we all want to have a terminology that is suitable for our country: a short sentence. I would also refer to the comment "written" - verse - "written". I must say, as is said in other laws, something must be given in writing, not in writing. That is because, as it is said, it is a poor translation of acts from abroad. Believe me, this law was done by using the experience and model of the law of the European Bank. Believe me, this law has also confirmed that we have a home-wise mind and that it uses good business practice, but also bad business practices in Serbia and in the surrounding countries, that this law is written and based on the models of those laws, our domestics, which recognise the terminology that is Serbian. So the Bond Relations Act says "in writing". It is simply another confirmation of the buckle, on the one hand, that it is an imperative buckle and a connection to the Law on Liaison Relations, and on the other hand that we and how we respected the local Serbian mind, domestic Spanish terminology, and that this is a Serbian law, and not a revised law of some other countries or those who want to impose, by what scenarios, something I really do not recognize in this law. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30119	Thank you, Minister Goran Pitic. We'd like to finish this morning's session. The first has the word in the afternoon session, starting at 15.00 hours, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. We will continue to work on the amendment to Article 35, submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Radojko Petrovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Assembly in the afternoon session. Please insert the cards to determine if we have the quorum needed to work. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We continue the work by giving the words, the right to replica, the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic (not present). We move on to Article 35, to which the amendment with the correction was submitted jointly by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Radojko Petrovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30121	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 37, where I say, "The hostage trustee is required to enlist in the stock register that the settlement procedure has begun." That's very important. For example, since I have two tractors, I will give one to a decent, honest, poor, unsullied, honorable man, such as Nebojsa Covic. Then someone will betray me, or betray him if he is not registered in the register, such as the honorable, fair, well-reading papers of General Perisic. What's going on now? Then I'm out of tractors. The honest man Covic goes to prison, and Perisic is declared a traitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30122	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30123	Finally, we have received a response from the Government to our amendments, so it will be much simpler for us to explain the amendment to Article 37 concerning the entry of the settlement procedure into the register of stocks, and predicts that the defendant is obliged to request that the stock register be registered as starting the settlement procedure. Our amendment, which requires that this whole member be amended, should state that "the pawn trustee is required to register the stocks that he started the settlement procedure". Perhaps, indeed, from the arguments given by the Government that the stock register is run by an established body - which has not yet been established yet, but will be; when, not known, it turns out that the trustee has neither the ability nor the authority to register the beginning of the settlement, but only to contact the register and ask (please). That communist, please the top title, is long gone for us. With state authorities, people turn to demands, not requests. An application is a matter of polite conduct, and in communication with the state authorities there are, therefore, claims, lawsuits and so forth. There are no requests. However, the question arises here, what if the competent authority, or the body running the register, does not register the commenced settlement procedure at the request of the trustee. Now we can argue logically that it's a situation that you can't come into at all, but from experience we know that the organ can be made deaf, or kept quiet. To the so-called silence of the administration, you are completely destitute, and the damage is suffered by all: and the trustee's stockholders. Third parties and the law itself do not predict what you do. That's why we've proposed such a decadent norm that it represents, in a certain way, and a commitment to whoever runs the register, that there's nothing to think about whether to sign up for a settlement procedure to start or not to sign up. There's a bet deal, it's registered. The settlement procedure is something that one party has started and it is only one fact that should be reported in the register in which publishing contracts are held. Therefore, the argument that the trustee does not have the authority to enter the start of the settlement is fine, but it has the obligation itself to have the authority to keep the settlement procedure in place without entering into whether it will or will not. He doesn't need to be left out of it. I think the amendment is really in place. It is not only a matter of revaluation of the legal norm itself, but of the fact that the body keeping the register has practically only a obligation to make observations which have legal consequences on all those interested in carrying out an insight into the register as a public correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30124	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 41st amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30125	Before I begin to explain the text of this amendment, I would like to ask the chairman and these people of the National Assembly to inform the legislator of this law, the warnings and instructions on the stenogram of our sittings, to pay attention to the representatives of the Government, to what they are saying and to what they are replicating, or to explain the speech and discussion of one of the MPs. Apparently, government officials don't read the stenograms, and they probably don't know what they're saying from this pay phone. To explain this amendment requiring appropriate intervention in Article 41. The bill, which is a provision of the law on a special procedure for obtaining a state in a hostage law case, I would have to go back to the initial members of this law and point out that there is a fundamental problem in this law, because we practically did not define this law in the right way what a pledge agreement is. The real content of the pledge contract is given in Article 966. The law on bond relations, and it says, "The pledge agreement obliges a debtor or a third party to the trustee to give him a moving thing." To give him a moving thing, that means a future act. This means that there are provisions in the existing Law on Liabilities that regulate it. Non-state stock. A contract concluded, a consensus reached between the parties and it is a consensual legal business, that contract, and then reality and surrender comes later. In practice, when it comes to hand-in-hand, there has been a situation so far that at the same time with the conclusion and giving a moving thing as a means of ensuring the trustee's claim. So there are no reasons for the adoption of a special law that would regulate a non-state stock, and in particular there are no reasons to regulate the right to publishing securities of value or other rights. I also have to remind you of the fundamental lack of the bill, and here's the evidence for that lack. In Article 968, the existing Law on Liabilities, it says: "The pledger is entitled to a publishing right, and the right to hold a moving matter means that, if the main claim is not achieved, he is authorised to sell it and to settle his claim from it." So, the confiscator gets a hostage right when the thing that's the subject of the contract is handed over to him; the thing that's the subject of the contract, not the subject matter of the hostage. The subject of hostage law is the pursuit of a retainer, both the main and the secondary, the accessory. These are the fundamental shortcomings of this bill. Because of these shortcomings, practically, Article 41. The bill is unsustainable, in direct contrast to the Bond Relations Act. We don't have the right to violate a good law by a bad law that doesn't have its own foundation, it doesn't have its basis. Not to quote all failures and failures. This article discusses the acquisition of the state in the case, which is already the fulfilment of the obligation under the pledge agreement, when it comes to a future act. Our legislator made a mistake, so now he introduces a special procedure, completely unnecessary and makes some wrong analogy with the Financial Lising Act, and there was a good solution. For what? Because the financial lysager is the owner of the goods, and the stockholder is not the owner of the goods and has no place in the special procedure and special provisions, since there is all and in the Law on Executive Procedure, and in the Law on Lissual Relations and in the Law on the Procedural Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30126	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment, the People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30127	The government explained, which has rejected this amendment, wrote: "This situation is not regulated by the Implementing Procedure Act, but similar provisions are contained in the Law on Liaison. However, since this is about a different way of pushing, it was necessary to propose appropriate rules. We note that these rules are fully in line with the Law on Bond Relations." Despite this, I claim that this amendment is involved, because I am telling the Government now, it was necessary for this amendment and article 43 to be brought into contact with Article 27. The proposal of this law and then it would be seen that article 43 is completely excessive, that it is incorporated into this law just to have more members, to get the law, at least by volume, on seriousness. Although, I'm telling you, the law can be good with a lot less members than this law has, which has a lot of members, but it's very, very bad. I further claim that what is provided for in Article 43, which is related to Article 27, is regulated by the Implementing Procedure Act. I don't know why, but I noticed that the practice of proposing -- the government of Serbia -- is that, in all these laws, in some ways, it interferes with the work of courts. They act as if there are no regulations governing the area of justice. Each time what is foreseen, let's say, in the Criminal Law or the Implementing Procedure Act, the Government through these laws, some back specializations that we have on the agenda these days, suggests something that is very similar, but it's not absolutely the same, and the executive procedure can only be as provided for by the Implementing Procedure Act. In Article 43, you again wrote that "the trustee may require the court to decide to sell the subject of the right to be sold at public sale or at the current price when the matter has a market price or a stock market price". I also don't understand why you use "can" all the time in the law. Then you can say the pledge deal can be concluded. It is normal to conclude, it is concluded by whoever will, but whoever concludes it must behave according to the imperative norms of the law, not by leaving it to the participants of a legal business. I know that leaving it at will and recommending that certain laws and certain provisions be respected, the manner of this assembly and this government, and we almost saw it through the recommendation of the Committee on Information and Culture, which recommended the National Assembly to consider the possibility of putting aside the decision on the transfer of sessions of the National Assembly, and you all know that such a decision exists, that such a decision is never put out of force and that the person who violates that decision is committing a criminal act. I'm not saying he can commit a crime, he's doing a crime. If God does, he will respond very quickly to the courts, according to the laws that are in the spirit of our legal system, and not according to yours, it can be, but it doesn't necessarily mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30128	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30129	The amendment to Article 43 is a direct consequence of the amendments we have made to Article 41 which provides for a special procedure for obtaining statehood in the case of publishing law. The explanation you gave us as a reason for not accepting this amendment is that similar provisions are contained in the Bond Relations Act and that this situation is not regulated by the Implementing Procedure Act, which is absolutely not true, because in Article 980. The law on bond relations states that the sale will take place through a court of law, which means that the procedure is being re-applyed. We had such a concept, when we made amendments to the method of settlement, that it should be according to the regulations applicable under the Implementing Procedure Act and that it should not be constantly, as some laws representing the back of the specialis, to change the executive procedure. There is an Implementing Procedure Act, and it should be respected whenever it enters into action and does not need for different situations, i.e. individual regulations to amend the executive procedure. It's simply inadmissible from the point of view of the general legal system, but it's already becoming a practice. It's not the first time we've been in this situation. It only brings confusion into the legal order itself. However, I would like only for a moment, and it is about this amendment, to link it to the risk we talked about, which the minister also talked about, to address in the morning part of the debate, that MPs, on the one hand, say that the borrower favours itself, that this law favours the trustee, and that the aim here is to get the state involved as little as possible in all these relations, that is to allow the market to regulate all this and that the citizens themselves, i.e. the entities of this contract, take the risk themselves, and to assess whether that risk should be taken and can be taken or not. It is so where economic opportunities are far better than they are with us, I'm not saying that this should not be allowed, on the contrary, let in this way people, and riskingly, in debt, take the means to start some business, but I would like to remind you of just one sad fact that in 2001 1,430 people attempted suicide in this country. This is the result of this hopelessness when they bring themselves and their family to the situation that they have misrepresented themselves, estimating that this debt will be able to recover, because it will fertilize the capital that they have somehow come to, mainly under unfavourable conditions. But no one leads better, and that's why we reminded you of Mr Dinkic and the foreign reserve policy. That's where you criticized us about it, but I don't think you understood what I was going to say. No one escapes from giving credit. To tell you the truth, I haven't raised any consumer credit, I just don't dare two or three thousand dinars to owe my salary to buy a washing machine, let alone some bigger credit, and there's someone who can, and unfortunately, there's less. We know how many people today don't have any income, they just work or don't work, but they don't have any income, but if those funds were found abroad... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up... It's here, and when it's used on purpose only to lend credit, to encourage economy, it's not a state-wide mix, it's entirely on economic and market terms, interest is so big and so big, it's a loan, it can be a mortgage, it can be a stock, but it would mean huge capital. You would achieve this effect that you want to achieve by this law. However, I remain in my view that the hostages will mostly be those who have money acquired in a dirty way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30130	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, Mr. Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must commend the minister, this is one of the few ministers who attends a full debate on the draft law submitted by the government to the Assembly, he is appointed representative of the government. I hope you won't have any trouble in the government to be praised by the opposition MP, the SRS. As for the amendments submitted by the SRS to Article 44, we insist that three words be entered into this article, namely to enter this term "through public competition" and in the out-of-court sale. In your explanation for why you do not accept this amendment, you said that the contents of this amendment were already formulated in Article 46(2). However, it insists that if the stockholder is a natural person who concludes the pledge contract outside the scope of economic activity, the issuer may access out-of-court public sales through competition if the trustee and the stockholder agreed on it at the time of the maturity of the claim. So, only in case the hostage trustee and the lender agreed on it. We insist on this being a commitment. So if the sale, if it comes to it, sells things, and they're pawned, it always works through public competition, to avoid some of the things that we've had a chance to see in the previous period. When it comes to all the facts of taking, or lending, certain things, it should not be allowed for those who have money, power and force to influence those who have been forced to take credit under some unfavourable conditions or to pledge some of the valuables they have in their possession to access out-of-court sales, i.e. to practically settle just a small portion of the value of that item, those things they have put into stock. Since the Serbian government is in favour of the market economy, for the free market, we believe that this is also a form of it. For example, if you sell some factories through public competition, through a tender, then I believe that in this law, you should introduce this principle of public competition in this article, not that it happens to be in some direct contract, as we have had the opportunity to see in some cases of privatisation that some factories are sold directly by a contract, so that something worth several million euros, marks, which you already want, is sold for three euros, that we do not come here in a situation that because someone is ignorant, because someone does not have a good and valid adviser, is forced to remain without some things at an incomparably lower value. So if we want to arrange this area, if we want to protect both the trustee and the lender, I think you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30132	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30133	Let me just briefly explain why we insist that the sale through public competition be an obligation, not a college-specific one, as is the case here in Article 44, regardless of what a member of 46 is involved in public sales through competition, especially when natural persons are stockholders. I'd just like to ask who it is who sets the conditions, is here in the contract, but whoever has the money sets the conditions. We're not going to get into a situation where the stockholder can choose whether or not he's going to do it. That's what the trustee says - we'll sell through a public tender or sell in one way or another, and depending on what's the object of the stock. Well, just because it's contracts, sometimes even by approach, means it's all pre-arranged, and yours, bro, is just to sign or not sign, consent or disagree. I gave you money, you gave me that, I already told you everything else. That's the rule. There's no guesses, because you know what the contract must contain, but the conditions always set up by whoever has the money, and that's how it is in the economy, politics and anywhere, there's not much choice, so it's in life. Maybe it's not on paper like that. Of course, we all know, when we go to the bank, we want to raise the loan, and he says, "Here, sign it." He's the one who gives the money, he dictates the terms, and so is the hostage trustee here dictates the terms. Therefore, public competition is necessary in order to achieve a price. It is important for all participants in the legal process, and even for the state, to achieve the highest price possible, to charge the trustee and to pay the debtor back, so that it does not fail. You can't sell a thing that's worth, I don't know how much, tens of thousands of euros, for half the price, because it's so much debt to the trustee. The trustee must have an interest in selling it at the highest possible price and in obtaining what is due through his obligation to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30134	Is anyone else answering the question from the authorized participants? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 46th and on Article 46th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30135	This amendment is an opportunity for me to try once again to distract the government from a dead end of a job called passing a law that is now on the agenda. The amendment requires that this article be deleted, it is completely unnecessary, because everything you have tried to regulate this member in the wrong way, is regulated by the provisions of the Law on Bond Relations in a perfectly correct manner. As proof of that, here's a little bit of reading what the Bond Relations Act says; Article 980 says this: "If the trustee's claim is not settled on maturity, the trustee may request the court to make a decision to sell the matter at public sale or at the current price when the matter has a stock market or market price. "So this situation is already regulated by a good regulation and there is no need to regulate this law that is on the agenda today. I would especially point out that this article applies to a natural person, where the court's decision is used. Why? Because it is, however, human rights and that debtor, as a natural person, only by intervention and by the court's decision, it is possible to force itself to demand that he fulfil his contractual obligation. Let's move forward, in Article 981 is said - if the debtor does not settle for the maturity of the claim arising from the economic contract, the trustee is not obliged to address the court, but can access the sale of the pawned goods at the end of eight days from the warning of the debtor, as well as the lender, when it is not the same person; so he will do so. So it's all regulated. Why bring one member into this special law and create confusion, confusion in application and devalue something that is well regulated. Why is this the second solution to the business contract? Because contract parties are legal entities and there are no human rights in them, but legal interests. With them, it's regular work, regular work, regular risk-taking. Last time, I explained that Article 996 contained the form of non-state supplies in the words "to hand over some moving matter" when the contract was concluded. Don't play around with serious things, because it can be extremely dangerous in practice, inapplicable, confusing. There are real views of both the Trade Court and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia and external trade arbitration also in the application of commercial aliens has built up views on these matters and there is no problem in introducing and complicating things with a bad and unreasonable translation, which changes the essence of some legal terms and legal relations that are known from Roman law. That's the danger we're talking about today. Of course, by adopting this amendment, you can't improve the law, but we draw your attention, draw the law, it's not good. The fact that the trustee is not protected in our economy is a lack of implementation of the Implementing Procedure Act and the kind of relationship that exists in court. We can't solve that by changing one material rule, so let's be clear with that. Furthermore, this law also regulates the supply of claims and other rights, and has referred the proposer to the provisions of Article 950, 991, and up to 994, where up to 996 is also prescribed in the case where a claim is sought is contained in securities of value and how the claim is transferred when it comes to securities of value to the bearer or to the name, etc. It's regulated by some other regulations. At the next item of the agenda, we have a law on securities of value, where the way the claim contained in the securities of value is also foreseen.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30136	Five minutes. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 46 was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants don't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president, SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30137	Since the DSS representatives are not here, I will take the role of explaining their amendments, and I have a constructive proposal for the efficiency of the work of this assembly, to bring this assembly down to 23 MPs and to work nicely, as the rest of us are just watching. I only answered because the argument given (The Verse of Radeta, from the post: 24 MPs and the chairman)... Of course 24... to refuse, or not to accept the amendment to Article 46, which Mr Mamula submitted, just confirms what I was saying in favour of the amendment to Article 44 and, of course, regarding our amendment to Article 46, so I intended that after Mr Mamula's presentation to the joint debate on both amendments. Mr. Mamula hasn't heard from me, but I'm taking a chance on our amendment and his to say something about it. So the arguments are exactly the same. It has been said that the amendment is not accepted "for the reason why the idea of protecting natural persons, ordinary citizens, as debtors or lenders is contained here too, the back of the commission is prohibited at the time of the conclusion of the contract, and is allowed at the moment of the presence of the trustee's claim, i.e. if the debtor has not fulfilled his obligation on time. The reason why such a provision is allowed at the moment of maturity and prohibits the conclusion of the pawning contract is reflected in the fact that the negotiating position of the stockholder is more favourable than at the time of the conclusion of the pawning contract. At the time of asking for a loan (and this is the moment of completion of the deposit agreement), the depositor may, due to a short need for money, agree to the unfavourable provisions of the contract, hoping that the loan will be returned in time and that no such provision will be applied. Of course, there is no legal coercion that forces the debtor to agree to such a provision, but the reasons for economic difficulties can influence him to accept it. "That's what I've been pointing out. The law provides protection against the hostage trustee, who could put pressure on him. That's what happens most of the time. The same provision doesn't have to be dangerous at the moment of maturity, it doesn't have to, but it can at that point. That's why we asked it to be a mandatory public competition. So the explanation you gave confirmed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30138	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic submitted. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed an amendment in front of the Srspka Radical Party to be in Article 47. The draft law on the rightful position of the 7th and 8th are deleted. Paragraph 7 reads: "The pawn trustee can trust a person who is engaged in lending as collateral or as a person who is engaged in selling such things as an occupation, to sell on his behalf and for his own account the subject of the right to publishing". Item eight: "The hostage trustee and the person entrusted with the sale of the property rights case are held accountable to the stockholder if they cause him any damage to the sale". In Part 8. The draft law sets out different ways of settling hostage creditors. The adoption of a law on publishing rights on movable matters entered in the register provides a high degree of legal certainty in debt-confidential relations with the aim of obtaining favourable conditions for investing in Serbia's economy. This law seeks to regulate the demand security system on the basis of stocks on movable matters, which is a significant condition for creating a favourable climate for investment in funds, for developing the economy and for refurbishing it on the market economy model. The object of the stock can only be sold by a trustee through a public tender, keeping the interest of the debtor and the lender, which is in the spirit of the stock institute and there is no room for greeners mediators. Again, in this article, you step down from the National Bank of Serbia's institution. You're reopening special institutions, agencies that will deal with greening, and that's why I think you'll accept my amendment in order to improve this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30140	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30141	The reason for submitting this amendment is that we think it is unnecessary to really introduce a third party and, as the Government here says in light of this amendment, specialised institutions that will deal with sales. This requires additional costs and we don't see why we are now creating some new stock market that will sell items, when today you can do it on the Internet or in some official newspaper, in the daily list; simply make a public call and say - we have that and that slave, bidding or public competition will take place on that day and that, in these and those rooms a tour of goods, equipment, this, that, that, that day and that day. That's no problem, that's no special expense to a hostage trustee. There is a cost to publish that ad and has of course an interest to make it legal, that is, that nothing is being installed, and when you give it to a third person, then there is the possibility of finding those who will pre-arrange some prices, and therefore we believe that the sale at market or stock market price can remain as regulated by Article 47, and that the last two positions, where the hostage trustee can trust another person who is engaged in the loan as an interest or person involved in the sale of such matters as interest, which is less dangerous than this first one, to sell on his behalf and for his account the subject of the right. Every day we see these ads in the papers, public calls, and even the American embassy when they sell their furniture, which they maimed, they make it nice in the papers, somewhere on Pančeva road, they have their own warehouse, they don't let anyone else sell it. They say -- look at that day and on that day, they determine the day when auctions will take place and see, of course, that they reach the highest price for that misdemeanor. For this reason, the amendment required that the last two positions of Article 47 be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30142	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 49th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 49. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30143	The government has informed us that it has not accepted this amendment, but an interesting explanation is why it is not accepted. Says -- an amendment submitted by Bojan Pajtic was accepted, and the Serbian Radical Party's amendment is to delete Article 2. Bojan Pajtic's amendment refers to the definition of a new Article 2 and the existing Article 2 to be a Article 3. We said, since it's in the Law of Prosecution, why does the court remind you that it works according to the law. What you're trying to prove is that the current minister said that we don't have to stick to the law as a drunk float, you will, and you will do so in writing. You can't reason with him by repeating something countless times. In this law we warn the court that it works according to the law. If this is already in the Law of Prosecution, which was passed in 1997, then why embezzlement it in this law. No, it's about the other thing, gentlemen. You're so stubborn and you're so insolent in your stubbornness that the administration does everything to you. The administration simply looks at who the proponent is -- an opposition MP, and parallelly suggests a ruling MP, MPs are accepted by the ruling one. That's what the ministers don't look at, don't look at, or the secretaries you've appointed. This administration of gentlemen doesn't lead you to anything good, this administration is leading you to a break-in. A little, at least in these arguments, look at them, warn them, but there's no effect on that either. All in all, at the end of the debate in particular, you are aware of the fact that the end of your power is. You can bring whatever you want, suggest, but you've run out of time. Now it remains to take a little over this law, using this DOS Constitutional Court. It won't be for long either, and neither will this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30144	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Golub Rajic and Miomir Ilic submitted together to Article 51 of the amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the amendment bear the word of the People's MP Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30145	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Golub Rajic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 51, i.e. Chapter 9. - Disengagement of hostage rights. In the position of Article 51, it shall be clearly defined when the law in question ceases. We don't have any objections to that. The position of Article 51 is unnecessary because it introduces an unknown person related to the termination of the right that the trustee has under the law of the hostage. We have suggested that Article 51(2) be deleted because there is no point in staying here or anywhere in the Bill of Law in connection with the termination of the right to terminate, i.e. the payment of the debt and the termination of the claim. The argument given by the Government - which is why it does not accept our amendment - refers to a general rule that is right, which is that something that is not regulated by law becomes a rule in practice. It is mentioned, in this respect, the Law on Liabilities, that is, Article 368, which gives such a right for the trustee to settle and when time runs out, that is, when the claim becomes obsolete and through the law of the hostage. I think these regulations are in collegiate, and most of all, they're in a conflict with the policy that you're conducting. When you came to power, you said you'd be quick to pass any legal regulations that would be effective. The minister of justice said that both in the area of justice and in the area of law-making will be expeditative and that all irregularities from the past will be lifted, so you are also contradictory. Now you're saying something can be charged even after the limitation period is up. If the limitation period is up, then there's no point. The laws you've passed so far have shown how much it's worth. Now you're confirming one rule that you didn't advocate, which is that your laws are clear, loud and expedient. Here you give a satisfaction that, after the expiry of one legal rule, you give the possibility of a charge being made out of the debt right of the debtor in favour of the trustee, that by selling things, you can take the claim that the trustee had from the debtor without the value of these things being market value. For this reason, we believe that Article 51's position is unnecessary, nor is it in the spirit of your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30146	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? He doesn't want to. ) We move on to Article 52. The amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word is from MP Ljubomir Mucic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30147	Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the amendment to Article 52, we have proposed an amendment to the previous amendments that we have also submitted, which we have suggested that the basic herd may also be the subject of the stock. In Article 51(2), we have proposed that the right of the hostage cease and be deleted from the register of stocks when the subject of the publishing right fails or dies. By handling these criteria and directions, we have also defined ourselves to submit this amendment to Article 52. Yesterday we talked a lot about the question of payment of claims, if things go south. As a result, I think it is extremely important what we have proposed to the previous amendments, given that Article 52(2) states: "If the subject matter of the law has been secured, the law itself is established, by law, on demand of the amount (or compensation) of insurance". We know that never the insurance compensation that's being made can't compensate for the real amount of damage. As for the previous amendment, or amendment to the previous article, I would like to say very briefly just one sentence. The contested provision provided for in Article 51(2), although it begins with "but", and we know that legal regulations have other ways of regulating this right, because it is intended to pay off and other means of stopping the claim, is inserted and does not belong here. Therefore, if the payment of the debt or otherwise ceases the right to claim, the payment of the claim, and after the expiry of the maturity period, there must be a special provision. That is why, at the Committee meeting, we have discussed this issue for a long time: whether such a provision should have its place in the law. We've concluded that she should, but that she doesn't belong in this part of it - in the end of the hostage law. The attitude, which reads, "But the hostage trustee can be reconciled from the value of the property and after the obsolescence of his claim", in our opinion, should be deleted. We have proposed to delete because we believe that this provision is not a place in the area and under the heading that follows the payment and termination of the claim. I don't think we've been able to find a solution. We didn't agree on where this provision in law would be. For these reasons, the proposed amendment was not accepted. As we are already nearing the end of this debate, I underline once again our willingness to vote in favour of this law, but I think there is still a need for the minister to declare the amendment to Article 3, which is acceptable at this time and for the government, although the report, which we have received, does not figure as accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30148	Anyone else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 54. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. We're moving on to Article 55. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to the 55th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to add in article 55 after the word "application" the text "written proof that the trustee has been calmed or that the stockholder has fulfilled his obligation". In other words, Article 55 states: "If a debtor or a stockholder, when not the same person, requests the removal of the right to be found, he is obliged to make a written statement to the register of the trustee to agree to an expropriation or a court ruling which determines that the claim of the right has ceased". A written statement means absolutely nothing. In an explanation of the refusal of amendments written by the government administration, it reads: "Amendment is not accepted since the solutions contained in the bill are taken into account in the full symmetry of the register of stocks." What that means is total symmetry -- and who takes care of it when it doesn't say it in the law anywhere, and that symmetry, whether it has or isn't there, we'll see it immediately in the register. Article 5, the second point states: "If the entry is required by the trustee, there is no explicit (and here it is explicitly said) statement by the depositor to agree to the trustee to enter the trustee's security register" means there is no symmetry, but it is simply a failure, whether it is technical or trying to explain the symmetry, both the enrolment and the consent of the trustee to be issued, by leaving the dilemma now, which always bothers you, when we insist on seriousness and accuracy, that it is precisely known that there is no space or some holes in the law that some people who are now under political passing or political influence can accomplish something that should not otherwise be realized that the law is correctly written. So if you don't have the arguments, then you usually say, that's understood, or it's transmitted to some symmetry. I think it's so clear that some explanations are not necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30150	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30151	I believe that the amendment that Dr Branislav Blazic explained really makes sense and that it should be considered with special attention, i.e. that the Prime Minister has enough reason to accept this amendment if, of course, we convince him. For, the provision of Article 55 reads, "If a debtor or a depositary, when not the same person, asks for an erasure of the law, he is obliged to make a written statement to the register of the hostage trustee to agree to an expropriation or a court ruling which determines that the claim of the right has ceased." There is an alternative: a statement by the publisher or a court ruling. According to us, it could be some other piece of paper, and written proof that the trustee is at peace. Depending on what is the subject of the stock is also the basis to confirm that the stockholder has fulfilled his obligation. That would be quite enough, given that the written evidence is a broader concept than what is envisaged. Consider this, it's not a termological matter, it's a restriction only on the written statement of the hostage trustee, who may once again be yes, it may not, it remains for him to decide, of course, unless there's a court ruling. If there are court decisions, then that court ruling is exactly this written evidence. But in addition to a court ruling and some other paper can be written proof that the trustee is at peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30152	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 55th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30153	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggested that the stock register be run by the National Bank of Serbia. The promoter rejected my amendment with the reason that the register of stocks, along with the register of financial leases, the register of economic operators and other registers of certain laws, will be kept under the central register, and also says that some legislative proposal is already in some debate, except that it has come to the assembly procedure, and is waiting for the law. That's probably why this law should apply from July 1st. The promoter assumes that the central registry law will be the basis. However, I believe that the central register and the law that would normally go with it are too high. With each register, as a rule, a massive organisational and technical apparatus is needed, which includes specialized personnel and suitable rooms, so it requires large material costs, a large number of jobs. The question arises whether, on the basis of this proposal, you will hire new people, who would live and receive salaries from taxpayers, or if you would already take advantage of the existing situation, that the National Bank of Serbia, which until 31.12., carried out payment operations, means, anywhere in every even bigger place in the Republic of Serbia, has its own exposure or its branch, is equipped technically, humanely and there is no problem in having one such registry, even though it was central. But up to that central register, you can already come up with the following bill proposals, which will regulate economic operators, to determine that the National Bank of Serbia is running that register. It is much cheaper and much less asking for funds, these funds are already being spent on the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia, not even the means to hold a session of the Republika Srpska Assembly to pass such a special law, but to oblige the National Bank of Serbia to run a certain register under each law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30154	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30155	In the explanation given to us by the Government under the bill, we see that the financial resources provided for are necessary for the implementation of this law. These funds will be spent on establishing a stock register (I don't know which one), as well as working in 2003. So it's founding capital, initial capital that even the register starts working, and then the register, as I understand it, will support citizens through the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So you wrote: "In order to implement this law it is necessary to provide special financial resources on behalf of the establishment of a stock register, as well as funds for work in 2003." So we're going to finance that register this year. No one else will fund it. I read the explanation for the amendment Mr. Mamula submitted along with Mr. Cvetkovic. From that explanation, we have come to know what we are about to have here in the debate and what we will have on the agenda, which is this unique central register, which you say is widely accepted in parallel law and in the European Union, Central and Eastern Europe. It justifies that it's better to establish a register, you probably think, that I've read it, both on the lease, and on the stock, and on the mortgage and registration. So we don't have three different registers, we'll have one. I don't know how many people will be employed here, whether it will be decommissioned throughout Serbia by the departments of that register, I suppose, although thanks to technology, it will be united in one place, so that it can be seen as a public correction. No doubt it will cost us and must cost us. I'm most concerned, and on behalf of the SRS, I'm constantly protesting when we start some new organs, starting with those powerful agencies, under which we can't draw a line and know how many there are, and they're a big ballast, because they're just a commitment to a budget that's getting more and more spent. Now another register, and I just can't imagine that with this high-tech technology, we haven't been able to put someone's already existing body or organization in charge of doing this job, with the same staff. Why are we firing people from the National Bank if they can take this job, and as far as I can tell, Dinkic wants to fire. He said he would, I read it. It is possible to do so if we are thinking in that direction that the administration should be reduced to a minimum. I'm convinced that if we could now get one piece of information from the government, and the government couldn't possibly file a report on its work, we'd doubled the bureaucratic apparatus. We just doubled the bureaucratic apparatus here in the Assembly, I guarantee. I don't know exactly how many employees there are. I see some new, young people every day. If they volunteer, if they're on the payroll, that's the Secretary of Parliament knows, and one day we'll find out, but that's not good, because we're a very poor country. If we already have a deficit in the budget, and we're going to talk about that deficit when this next item comes to the agenda, so we can't possibly fill it out, so we're going to go to charters of value and paper emissions from the state, so that we can sort of fill that budget deficit, I guess we're better, if we think well of ourselves and our country, then we can squeeze a little belt in the sense of saving a little bit. We can't hire everyone in the state administration. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. Oh, good afternoon, Madam Chairman. If I'd known you were here, I'd have looked at the clock, and this is how I relaxed. So, the economy needs to be encouraged in this sense that it's capable of hiring people, not just the state, because if we just invest in spending, we're free of these loans that you're bringing us, everyone's going to go to government officials' salaries only.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30156	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30157	I'm sorry, I didn't hear if the amendment was legal. (President: Yes. ) Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted with my colleagues an amendment to Article 58, and I think that Article 2 of this article is unnecessary or should remain as it would appear if our amendment were accepted. Article 56 regulates that the register is on an electronic media, an electronic database. We consider the position of Article 2 58. - "The stock register is available at all times, within working hours" - it makes no sense because it thus deprives interested citizens of the right to communicate with this database via the Internet, cable distribution system or other known electronic capabilities. I will read Article 1, in order to make it clear: "The register of stocks is available to all persons regardless of the place and territory on which they join the register of stocks. All persons may contact any stock register unit, without restrictions, for registration or search purposes." Item 2: "The register of stocks is available at any time within the working time register". It is assumed that what is the jurisdiction of the institution, the state authority or any company is available within working hours. We have been explained on the Finance Committee that what we propose is not possible, because it would oblige the registry to provide information, confirm, etc. The explanation given by the government goes in that sense. He says, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that obtaining a certified copy of the stock register data, as well as a copy confirming that the register does not contain data on the stock on a particular matter or law, is necessarily related to the working time register of the stock." This wasn't the subject of our amendment at all. The subject of our amendment is that the stock register is available at any time. Available means electronically or in any other way available. That's why we think there's still time for Mr. Secretary to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30158	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to Article 62, which I have provided that, at point 2), the position of the first mentioned member of the text is to be amended and read as follows: "A brief description of the things and rights which are subject to the right of the hostage (as one of the evidence and documents to be submitted with a request for registration of the right to register the property) as well as proof of property rights. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we from the SRS have been insisting from the very beginning that the guilty right is bound to prove the right of property on this moving matter that is not being handed over to the state hostage trustee. We asked it to be a principle, a principle that would be the basis and that would be passed through all the provisions, i.e. through the relevant provisions and the contents of the whole law, because of the establishment of more initial security in a specific legal business, when it comes to it. I have no doubt that you, as a resolute minister and a representative of the Government for this item of the agenda, have come to a certain conclusion that perhaps these provisions and amendments of the SRS and other MPs should, if they have been delivered to amend certain provisions of this bill, indeed be entered as necessary in the law. It seems that a priority, by being amendments from the opposition, and especially from the SRS, you reject them, better say, you reject them as being untimely, without entering into the essence, content, need and justification of their acceptance. This amendment, as well as other amendments related to this content, i.e. the essence and purpose of ensuring greater legal certainty, would be the bill itself, of course, after the adoption, would be the law itself, the quality and security of legal work, would have greater importance, greater power, and in the case of proof itself in a possible court procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30160	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30161	Mr. Minister, when you told us in your explanation why you cannot accept this amendment requiring that the request for admission of the right to the register necessarily contains a brief description of the things and the rights that are subject to the right to property, as well as evidence of the right to property, and all the while you agreed that there is a right to property, you said that it is difficult to imagine a system in which there would be evidence of property rights. In our right, quite certainly, such written evidence would be difficult to imagine, and even harder to implement. There we have now confirmed that our position is to think about pawning valuables for what we have in our homes, because it is really hard to prove that you are the owner, but also a statement that you are the owner means a lot. Every single thing, even a moving one, is achieved exclusively by some legal procedure, so let the ID be there. This is what you bought or inherited, there is a solution to the inheritance, account or decision of a competent authority, and when you get on the bus, you have concluded the transport contract by buying and getting an immediate ticket. You can always prove your property and right of disposal and there is no justification satisfactory on our part for refusing this amendment. We think it's easy to prove property in moving things, and I'm saying the very statement from the lender that it's his thing, that he owns it means a lot, and that should be an integral part of what's attached to the register.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30162	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 62nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ) The 62nd amendment was brought together by MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Finance have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Bojan Pajtic proposed that article 67 be deleted and three new members added. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Finance have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarians Dusan Cvetkovic and Radojko Petrovic submitted together to the 67th amendment. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30163	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, Slobodan Milosevic, I have submitted with counterpart Petric an amendment to Article 67, and this amendment requires that the words "January 1st" be replaced by the words "June 30th", and the words "June 30th" in the words "December 31st"; we also ask that the words "January 1st" be replaced by the words "June 30th", and the words "June 30th" in the words "December 31st" in the words "31st". These changes are necessary, because it is obvious that due to the seven-month delay in the debate of this law here in the Assembly there has been an overrun in the deadlines provided for. Following the adoption of the Financial Lising Act and others from Mr Pitic's portfolio, we believe that this law should also take effect in this segment of Article 67 immediately after eight days. This is so long as, as explained in the explanation, this law on the right to move matters entered in the register needs to ensure a high level of legal certainty in debt-trust relations. Achieving high legal certainty would create favourable conditions and a total economic environment that will attract all those who intend to invest in the economy of the Republic of Serbia with greater intensity. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, once again to consider accepting this logical and in the spirit of the law of the proposed amendment. We knew that you would be in a serious dilemma about this amendment, because it must have been a very strong pressure from DOS and their amendment applicants to this article. A big push for both your ministry and this assembly to emulate the economic miles for the fastest investment and reviving the overall economy seems to me to be partially falling into the water if the application of this law is delayed for the beginning of 2004, which, unfortunately, you have agreed to by accepting the DOS amendment which deletes Article 67 and introduces the new three members. That's why I think the amendment we submitted on behalf of the SPS is a better solution than what you accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30164	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we come to an end and this is the last of the 19 amendments, and they have been submitted by the SPS parliamentary group, and this is a more technical amendment that regulates the consequences that this law has not come before the agenda, given that we have waited seven months for it and have expired or the deadlines have drawn near that some of the provisions provided for by this law cannot be implemented. On the other hand, I can say that indeed in the last two or three days, even in a public debate, or presentation, I think that we have actively participated in both ministry gentlemen and MPs at committee meetings, heard a lot of good proposals, good suggestions, and on the other hand, this law really deserves special attention. Our goal is to minimise the adverse and negative consequences of society, and the more favourable and better conditions for developing this kind of rights, rights of supply, as well as better regulation of a segment of debt-trust relations. I think that shows that part of the amendment that has been accepted here, five amendments since 19, so I hope that the minister, the ministry, or the government, as well as the MPs of this Parliament will have two other very significant amendments in mind. So on Article 3, because the real explanation that's written here, I don't think it stands, where the bill states the content of the contract and that because of the formulation and content, it's just a word in particular. If the contract is an individual act, it can't stand in particular. It can stand, so it contains it, and so can it. For this reason, I think the formulation of the content of the contract, including the place of conclusion, is very important, as is Article 3. I therefore also propose to the MPs of the other parliamentary groups, as regards Article 3, to actively take part in the vote. Also, Article 58, which explained counterpart Rajko Baralić, I think he deserves another special attention, considering that our goal is also to make the register available at any time, not only in the period when the official is there, during working hours, because our goal is that every citizen has the right to access the register and at that time to check, and not to request a copy of the register which, I agree, should be subject to issue or search during the period when the official is present and when he can verify and issue what is required, to register or delete the right to register. It is stated in the explanation that obtaining a certified copy with stock register data, as well as a copy confirming that the register does not contain data on the stock on a particular matter or right, is necessary only for the working time of the register. I do not think it is necessary, and I hope that both the parliamentary majority and representatives, or MPs of other parliamentary groups, will have an understanding for the proposed solutions. I hope that we have assured you and convinced you that they are also correct in Article 3, which draws certain strings and in the next members, and I also think that restricting the right to access the register only for working hours at that time, I think it is unnecessary, and that provision should be completely deleted or introduced that access to the registry can take place over and over again. Thank you. I urge you to vote for our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30166	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 68 and is proposing that Article 2 be deleted. We Serbian radicals against this law, which is why we have submitted this number of amendments, hoping to improve it at least, but it has nothing to do with it. You're not on that democratic plateau yet to see it. Who's asking to register? Why alternative provisions when you can do it in other ways? It's regulated yet in Roman law, so we Serbian radicals have a negative comment on this law. You mention the constitutional basis for the adoption of these laws and other laws, but we know when and how you use the word "constitution": when you need it and when it goes towards your imaginary constitution; this imaginary constitution of yours is still on the agenda today. The law that we're talking about here today provides some kind of cash claim, or gives security through a pawn's right. That high level of legal certainty in you today is questionable. You've shown it all along your reign. Today you go public with some fact, and tomorrow you're affected by the weather, or the climate, and it's not like that anymore. That applies to this law, too. Who trusts you more? So this amendment of mine to the last article of the 68th requires that Section 2 be deleted. How can you who are supposed to invest in our country, and you are calling them through various laws, have security, when you are not able to keep the highway under control, so that this gentleman who wants to bring the capital wanders through the gaps to get to the finish line. They are not ready at the moment to bring capital to Serbia safely because of you. And you need funds for this law, and your budget is already in crisis. It is an abnormal legal situation for the law to be passed today, effective on the eighth day of the day of publication, and will apply in a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30168	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30169	And if we had received a government statement in time, I would have had time to say something about the 67th, 68th and 69th members representing Mr Pitiæ's amendment, asking to delete Article 67 and add three new members. It's practically a reason for not accepting this amendment of ours. I really can't be more specific about these three members. They're so confusing, I don't think anyone alive knows when this law will come into force. It would be good for the minister to tell us and explain what this means, and what is contained in Articles 67, 68 and 69, and why it was so important that right now, at the end of the regular session, we are considering this law and that it is adopted, when it will actually come into effect much later. I'm sorry, I really didn't have time, I didn't notice the explanation. I would prepare to interpret these three members. If this is not clear at first sight, then it will likely be unclear for those who apply this law. I ask you to explain when the law comes into force and under what conditions. I see there's a lot of exceptions here. Basically, this is the acceptance of the SRS amendment, with several times when you said, when I was returning to my post, the amendment was accepted, in the sense that it was contained in some amendment. I see that no amendments to the SRS have been accepted, but amendments to some other parliamentary groups, or MPs, which probably have a similar or same meaning. I don't see why such animosity towards the SRS, which has really put forth as much effort as usual, when it comes to the motions of the law that the government delivers to parliament, whether we're being followed by TV cameras or not, we're doing our job the way our voters expect us to do. So, don't even hope for future laws to pass quickly, even in these conditions we're willing to give more than we would have done in a situation where the TV camera has here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30170	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does Mr Goran Pitic want the final word of the Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a chance to just round up what I was about to say and in some ways make additional communication compared to what today was about conversation. I agree with Mrs Pop-Lazic, meaning, regardless of whether TV is broadcast or not, my approach is the same, as you said, and that is to be done professionally, to communicate on all the topics that are the subject of this legislative proposal and to discuss in a way that we should comment on, eventually adopt, and where we disagree normally, and in any congregation procedure, it goes this way. I must say that it is true that we have accepted 12 amendments, none of which in this case by the Serbian Radical Party, but to remind you that it is not a matter of principle at all. As you know, we've accepted two amendments to the concession law, and all three have been accepted. So it's not at all the way communication was set up on this side to anyone in the congregation. It is simply about this law that there is a certain difference, not even in the concept, but rather in some topics that I consider not to be diametrically contrary to the provisions of the law. Normally, it's your right to set yourself up according to this bill by voting or whatever you want. As for these misunderstandings on the subject of amendments, I still think it is clear to you and how clearly what it says in this bill and the amendment submitted by Mr Pajtic. So, it is unequivocal that on 1 January 2004, the law will apply to moving matters, and in the claim-related work it will apply from 1 January 2005. There are many reasons why this is so, and one of the reasons is that she is the concern that you insisted that she should potentially be present, is that the concern on the one hand is to explain enough in the other half of the year to those who can potentially be stockholders and publishers, and on the other hand because this period is meant to be working on the register of stocks and that on January 1st everything is ready for the application of this law. I have another comment to make, and it's still that I disagree with you, because somehow it seems inspiring to me on your part, since you're the most present here, it's not true that there are fewer people or less who take credit. On the contrary, there is an expansion of the beauty of those who take goods on consumer credit, and these are people, ordinary citizens, those who have waited years to open up an institution of consumer credit; they buy long-term consumer goods, what they need for being, for a normal life, and never in the last 10 years have they been in a situation with what they receive to separate the part for a better life. Let me tell you that all statistics show, if once the entire average salary had to be spent on basic life supplies, today 65% of the average wage goes to that, and 35% is possible to be used to pay off the average wage loan. These are still some facts and it is only a confirmation that more and more of those entering the zone are able to use these loans. It's not an argument that Serbia has a great life. This is not a part of the speech at any time to make the picture more beautiful than it is, but it is true that it is an contribution to the argument that there are serious improvements and to the development of institutions that speak in favour of the application of this law. Finally, I would like to thank everyone who has really tried to understand this law, to read it in a way that is primarily not politically colored and I must admit that, if it means anything from this pay phone, I am extremely pleased that the majority of the comments by the MPs have been concentrated on the technical side, on a professional argument. Whether we agree or not, that's the other side, and minority was part of some political phraseology. Once again, I hope that most MPs will recognise this law as a law that introduces a segment to what is called the construction of a business environment and that it will finally result from 1 January 2004 in moving things, by strengthening business traffic in this sphere, that it will contribute to the strengthening of families and strengthening civil and business society, but that it is normal to realize that the risk is immeasurable or inherent to the nature of the economy that we want to have, which is a combination of a strong state, but with a serious space left for business.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30172	I thank Mr. Secretary. You didn't mention it. There's absolutely no mention of your name. All right, come on, straight to the replica. Should I be looking forward to it?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30173	Mrs. Micic, you haven't been here all day. You went to take a shower, change your makeup. This morning you were unsullied, exhausted, tired.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30174	You want me to give you a heads-up again?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30175	Well, if you'd like to give it to me, but we've had a very constructive discussion today. Indeed, Minister Pitic, for his part, contributed to clarifying the law. We worked here all day, there were countless amendments on our side. Mr. Secretary has called me by my last name on several occasions. Please concentrate and follow the debate. So I'm entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30176	You're not offensive. Read the Rules of Procedure and please use the right replicas, which you have received.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30177	I didn't say it was negative.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30178	Then you have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30179	I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30180	You don't. Read the Rules of Procedure, but let's not argue now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30181	Okay, I have no right to live for you either. That's what we'll do when we have the fourth point on the agenda, about the chandelier and then we'll chandelier here in the Assembly. I wanted to draw the minister's attention to one fact when he's talking about the entire environment and the purchasing power of the population, that he doesn't need as a basis for his exposure to have statistics. Statistics, you know, it's not science. That's one method. She's always in the service of something. It's not science. Please don't deny me now. Now I'm going to be disappointed in that. You're still a professor of economics. Statistics aren't science. They're methods. You know what percentage of the population is on the verge of hunger today. You know how unemployed he is. There's a million people at the unemployment office. Consumer loans can, in a sense, be affirmative for one society, but if I could buy myself a house on credit, say for 40 years or an apartment for 40 years; and to buy a hair dryer, a washing machine, a toaster, as it buys, it just shows what kind of poverty we are. It's not true that two-thirds of the average salary, because we have more than average wages here, a man spends, i.e. The family spends on basic life supplies. We spend our whole salary and we don't even know ourselves anymore how we figure out how to survive that pay, those who, of course, live off their wages and who don't have any extra income. One is demagogy, one is statistics, one is a consumer basket. Life is quite different, believe me, and especially when you get into a situation where Mrs. Micic is behind you, so receive a salary of 3,800, like me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30182	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. We'll join the vote in voting day. I forgot to tell you that you can check in the service that I had five meetings and that I could give you a reminder of what you said, and among other things with the Japanese ambassador, with a representative of the United Nations, Mr. Kalevinski, etc. Therefore, you could have received a warning again. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the law on the market in paper and other financial institutions (principles) you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Dragan Ljubojevic. The amendments to be submitted until the start of the original search will be sent to you during the session. Reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee have been received. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists with the entries for the word. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Mr Bozidar Djelic, the finance minister, want a word? He wants to. ) The word has Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend and supplement the Charter Law of value is of a technical nature. We have two reasons to propose a law like this. The first is the initiative of those who deal with securities of value. Right now, we have the initiative of the Management Board of the Stock Exchange, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the representative of the stockbrokers, as well as the Securities Commission. The key reason why they propose this is, essentially, the delay in applying this law for four months, so that instead of 1 June, the application begins from 1 October of this year, that they have not been able to comply with their acts in time and are fully prepared for the full application of this law. Is it just that they weren't diligent enough, and there's that, or is there something else? The key reason is that at the moment of these constitutional changes, the federal level may not have been sufficiently active, especially the Securities Commission of value, but also some other institutions, so that not all they needed to follow has not worked fully to prepare for the application of this law. Thus, today we are in a position to apply this law, if it starts on 1 June, to lead to some problems in practice, or in its application in practice. There is no harm in the application of this law to be delayed by four months, i.e. to start from October 1st this year. This so much earlier, which is the second and last reason for proposing such a law, is that we are in the making of sublegal acts, when that ingenuity went to a republican level, and you know that this law has been prepared by federal services - the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the Federal Ministry of Finance - noticed two kinds of problems. The first type of problem is the inconsistency of certain provisions with some republican laws. In particular, I would quote some of the elements of the Privatisation Act, but also, which is not less important, some of the problems that could arise from the application of such a law on certain issues, such as: the status of persons connected, where the law is not sufficiently defined; the problems we can have in terms of the necessity that would arise from this law that all the societies that are closed should be opened and that those who are open must be listed on the stock market. Of course, there are a few smaller things, they're legal-technical. This proposal is therefore not to give birth to this coat of arms, as the lawyers say, and then produce one number of harmful consequences, that the esteemed home accepts this proposal, and that on 1 October we come before this house again and propose appropriate amendments and additions to this law, so that in the framework of all other laws governing the financial area, and that I also announce the law on insurance companies, the public debt law, the law that will regulate investment funds, then the law on pension and voluntary funds, now that this ingerence has passed to the level of the Republic, the full regulation that is necessary for us to develop the financial system properly. For these two reasons, I invite you to vote for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30184	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do the committees in charge want to take part in the debate? No, they don't. ) Do representatives of parliamentary groups want to take part in the debate? No, they don't. We move on to the debate of the MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, and the next reported word is MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30185	Mr. Djelic, I didn't realize what bill you were talking about, especially when you suggested we adopt some amendment, I don't know what amendment you mean, unless you mean two amendments proposed by representatives of the Serbian Radical Party. This bill of law is truly a miracle unseen. His explanation is even worse. In the light of the law, you say: "The transitional and final provisions of the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments set deadlines for bringing all participants into line with the provisions of the Law. In that sense, it was left for six months to agree. "Mr. Minister, I ask you why this deadline is not respected. No one has explained it to us, nor have you in this previous presentation, nor has this been given in the light of this law. It would be fair if you could at least tell us what the real reason for the law you've proposed today is. Next, you say, "The proposed amendments to the law, this deadline for alignment is extended by four months. This would allow for the timely alignment of all participants in the paper market with the provisions of the Law and the harmonisation of the Law with the laws of the Republic of Serbia." This, Mr. Djelic, is the misinformation of the MPs. But we, thank God, we know how to read. We in the Serbian Radical Party MP group, we tell you here every day, read your laws between the lines. Believe it or not, every time we know exactly what you meant by some bill. In the end, I'll tell you what you meant by this bill. In an explanation of the basic legal institutions, you say: "Article 1 of the Law amending the Law on the Market of Securities of Values and other Financial Instruments proposes to extend the time limit for the conduct of all participants in the securities market and the time limit for the application of this Act, in which way legal basis is created for all participants in the charter market of value to meet their business on a timely basis and to adopt appropriate legal acts in accordance with the provisions of the Law. "Mr. Djelic, I expect you to explain to us where this is written in the bill of law and what this is about your explanation. Furthermore, you say the law enters into force on 30 May 2003 and therefore it is necessary to postpone its application for four months. I don't care what the MPs care that you in the government failed to respect the deadline you're committed to. You regularly pass the law at the beginning, the period you leave at your disposal you fail to take advantage of. Indeed, the National Assembly is not a humanitarian organization to feel sorry for your failures, Mr. Djelic. As far as the second member of this law is concerned, I have really not seen any constitutional basis for applying the constitutional provision under which the law takes effect the next day since the day of publication. It would be nice if the government had told the National Assembly openly:Mrs. People's MPs, Minister Djelic is threatening to resign from the Securities Committee and the Financial Market if there is no Mr. Labus in the commission, and we do not want Mr. Labus because he is not now close to the Democratic Party but to the Democratic Party of Serbia. Gentlemen, that's your problem. You, Mr. Djelic, as far as I'm concerned, don't have to resign on this committee alone. It would be nice for you to resign to the ministerial post as well. Because such a bill is very unserious, very irresponsible and really cannot have any other consequence than the resignation of the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30186	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic. The next reported word is MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30187	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have a seemingly technical law on amendments and additions to the Charter of Values Act and it would be said, so what's there to talk about? I'm trying to be correct about all of this because it's not my duty to determine whose responsibility it is that we are talking today on May 28th about a law that should enter into force on May 30th. Why didn't we talk about it a month ago, or two months ago, or I don't know when, or why we're even talking about this law. The minister is trying to say in one way, a fine way to say that there are very major fundamental problems in this field of values in both our Republic and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro as a whole. Simply, this harmonisation of economic relations with Montenegro and the functioning of the securities market at all does not go the way it should. I remind you, in 2002, this authority passed the Charter of Values Act, last year when it was set by the deadlines, including those that change today, that within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, it must be chosen by the Securities Committee, and that until then, the commission that was left and to do its job. At the head of this committee is Mr. Miroljub Labus. What other body? [[Throwing it out of the bench.]] Please, we have to be precise here. We now want to extend the deadline to 10 months. Let's ask that too, where does that go from six to ten? Which isn't, say, by the end of the year or not for a year or so. But what I'm saying is, the bottom line is, the Securities Committee has a very high authority, among other things, has the authority to issue or withdraw a license to work on the stock exchange brokers, and that's here in these members who change clearly. I'm just having a dilemma about how this 10-month provision will apply. This is why: because in Article 257 which changes, you have an attitude 2 which says "the stockbrokers of Article 1 of this Article are obliged to comply with the provisions of this law no later than nine months from the date of its entry into force". How come this? Now I don't understand: it's ten months long, and you have a nine-month deadline here? If they do not, then the commission will be empowered to initiate appropriate procedures over the stock exchange broker and, among other things, to liquidate him. That means that this law, if nothing else, is technically missing, so maybe we had to change this attitude 2 too, to bring it into line with the new deadline. Because, on 30 May, it expires six months, but on 31 August, it expires nine months, and now you want all of this to come into effect on 1 October 2003. The second problem I see here, is this going to disrupt the current mode of functioning of the securities market. Please, we've been privatizing about 620 companies for the past two years. There are about 80,000 workers in these companies. We got under workers' rights to action, a free share of 30% of the capital, about 80,000 new shareholders. They now own some securities of value, and actions have the treatment in legal and financial markets, and they want to trade these securities with value. Whether they will have any problems with this, whether the stock exchanges will be able to work and at all, the question is, what kind of stock exchanges were we when they were unable to agree their general acts in six months, and now via the board of directors allegedly asks the Ministry of Finance to propose to the government to extend those deadlines. Any entity subject to a legal provision could therefore request an extension of the time limit and so on. Where we'd come from. Or, say, in Article 256. - the stock exchange established under the Exchanges, Exchanges and Exchange Intermediaries Act continues to operate in accordance with this law to organise the height of its underlying capital (which may be the most important thing in the establishment of the stock exchange), its general acts and its business in accordance with that law no later than six months. You say ten months now. When we find out on October 1st that the stock market has not again acquired adequate capital, should we go back to the extension and how far it will lead. It's like a little bit of a story about the transition of payment traffic from the PDO to business banks, and then we do it again once again, and we had a problem like we had for the first few months of payment traffic in business banks. So we have a tendency of constant extension and an obvious example of a lack of compliance of the republican level with the state community. I guess now someone didn't suddenly remember that there was this law, that there were these deadlines in that law and that all this had to be brought together. If we had the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter and a lot of things agreed and there was real synchronisation, we would have an extended period of time, not today May 28th, or we would simply apply the law as it says. For these reasons, in principle speaking, we cannot support the changes being made, primarily by emergency procedure, are included in the agenda, in the way they are included. We are asked to make this clear immediately and to enter into force on May 30th. I think it's inconclusive, no matter where this proposal comes from, and whatever the reason is that the motivation is to extend this deadline in this way. Borivove Katic: What do you suggest? I suggest we don't do this in the future. So that's the point. We can't keep flirting with the laws we get today, we're putting them on the agenda today, we have an obligation to get amendments, or to write if we have any objections, that's what we're talking about in an emergency procedure because we're in some time teat. Let us once think about it planically, to make some agendas, to have some dynamics that will allow the MP to be in a position to think about it, to professionally study certain matter, to make appropriate amendments, to give the Government time and the Ministry to declare it, and then have a quality debate here, and not to keep getting something into a piece, and that piece will, quite certainly, be changed in September by the same law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30188	The word is held by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, as deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30189	It's obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the government is in a time teat. He's in a hurry to pass some laws, and in fact he's late with some laws. This law today is on the agenda, which we have put into the agenda as a matter of urgency and which has to be voted by 30 and 30 on Friday, I am telling you that we will probably be working within 24 hours, because we have two more points of the agenda that will require a discussion of the MPs and probably the MPs are interested in talking about both laws. I don't know what's gonna happen if you don't make it by 30 to schedule a voting day and vote these laws. This should have been put on the agenda of some previous session, but the government obviously did not take into account the Securities Market Act and other financial instruments, which the Federal Assembly adopted last year and which set deadlines for all participants in the securities market. A six-month deadline has been left for alignment, and the law is due to enter into force now, May 30th. What happens if it does not enter into force on May 30, who will bear responsibility for it and what consequences will it be? That's theoretically possible. Looks like it's even practically possible. Now we can also assume that this will not happen until May 30th. The proposed amendments to the law extend this deadline by four months, and the minister has not told us at all why this has not been done so far in his exposé. What hindered the government and all the actors in this area from agreeing their way to work with this law not to do so? For this reason alone, it is necessary to propose and postpone the application of this law for four months. However, the law only has two members, as Article 1 lists the members of the law to which the extension of the deadline applies. Article 253 concerns the Federal Commission for Securities of Values and the Financial Market, which conducts operations in accordance with the Securities Act. That law was passed in 1998. The members of the Securities Commission, appointed in accordance with the rules applicable from the date of entry into force of this Act, shall continue to carry out their duties until the election of new ones. As far as I know, that commission still exists. I guess it's just the board of directors and Mr. Labus on the board of directors, if I've put it together. I don't know who the agent is anymore, who in which commission, but it seems to me that I read something in the press, that there were some blackmails -- Labus has to be on that committee, so Djelic backs it up and says, "I'll resign if Labus doesn't exist." I don't know if I've put this together well with this commission, maybe it's another agency, but we have one minister in the Serbian government who belongs to the opposition political party G-17 plus. Looks like we've got another one, but he hasn't made a public declaration. In fact, he declared himself in front of the presidential election and supported Mr. Labus' campaign. (President: I warn you to return to the agenda topic. ) Article 256 of the Stock Exchange, which was established under the Stock Exchange Act since 1994, was set to bring its general acts and business into line with the law, also within six months. She's now given another four months. I think there's a key to why this deadline is now being extended, because the stock market that doesn't act this way could be taken away from it by the Securities Commission and to initiate its liquidation procedure. How, as far as I know, only this Belgrade Stock Exchange is working, it has some blurry work to do, so it needs to be given four more months to bring its business into line with this law, in order not to take away her work permit. There is also "Delta Bank", which works with this stock exchange, and with this stock exchange, as far as we know, there are also certain ministers and individual lobbyes from the Serbian government and through it go sales of various companies, and even the PKK went through that stock market to those in whose hands it should never go or should not go. Article 257 extends the deadline for the alignment of general acts and the business of the stockbrokers. It seems to me that this is the most harmful consequence of the extension of this deadline, because both the stock exchange and the stock exchange brokers that have been trading securities from value so far have not been able to do so in accordance with this law. The stockbrokers are obliged to comply with the provisions of this law, no later than nine months from the date of its entry into force. My predecessor talked about it, but I wouldn't just talk about this deadline that is now in line with the new deadline that was given, but above all -- what is behind what is being extended to them so that this level of basic capital, which is now set by this law, remains at that level, and not as much as it should be, if this law had already been applied. So it's going to benefit the stockbrokers. I don't think there's any clean work here. It's not a matter that I absolutely rule over, but as soon as some deadlines are extended, the government was unable to do something in time or deliberately did not do it to favor or protect someone for something. There's an impression here that stockbrokers and stock exchanges are being protected that didn't even function properly, and the minister knows best what the reason is. The position of Article 3 of Article 257, which also concerns stock brokers, stipulates that a stock exchange broker who does not act in the manner prescribed by this law, also withdraws from the Securities Commission the permission to carry out the activities of the brokerage-dealer company and initiates the winding-up procedure. If this deadline had been respected, now that commission could be taking action and doing this job that should be working. There are also authorised banks which, in accordance with the Exchanges and Stock Exchanges Act and the Stock Exchange Intermediaries, carry out trading activities of securities of value. They continue to do all these jobs in accordance with federal law and their acts should also be agreed now within 10 months, not six months. I wanted to ask some questions to the Minister, to explain the essence here, that in his exposé he wasn't talking to us about some laws we'd have on the agenda. Indeed, we couldn't understand from his exposure, and in the light of this law, it doesn't say, why is this deadline needed, why has it not been done so far, what adverse consequences will we or those who have securities of value have? The indisputable fact is, we understand that the state has the right to issue securities of value, that the state thus acknowledges that it has a budget deficit, that the budget deficit must in some way cover it. We know that Dinkic, although the pressures are enormous, will not still print money. So you can't fill in the budget deficit from that gray show, so you have to broadcast securities of value to do it. (President: Are you using for the next 10 minutes?) No, I'm done. So, once again, I point out the clear reasons, if I can, Minister, in three sentences, why has this not been done so far, what are the adverse consequences and who is responsible for what has not been done so far? I still doubt that by the time we're 30, we'll be able to pass this bill. The question is, what if he doesn't get voted?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30190	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The next to be reported is MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30191	Apparently, only one change -- a longer deadline is set, allegedly due to the commission, due to the stock exchange, because of stockbrokers, and essentially there are no reasons why the government's representative stated that these were the reasons that motivated the government to propose this change. What's this about? In this law on the securities market of value and other financial instruments, there is a member of 265 who literally states that the law takes effect the next day of publication in the "Official Journal of the SRJ", and will apply after six months, now means 10 months. That means that this law that we're changing today is still not being applied. The Prime Minister was only in one thing right when he said -- practically the law that we are changing today is inapplicable and it's good that the government noticed that it was inapplicable law, because when he was adopted in the Federal Assembly last September, last October, there were a lot of objections to the text of the bill, because other than these legal and technical and clear political shortcomings, that law had one fundamental defect, about as if something fell from Mars to these conditions and our opportunities -- it was practically inapplicable. Of course, most of those to whom this law applies cannot meet the conditions to work under that law. The expectation was that something could be done in six months. Unfortunately, you can't do and what a government official announced for October is the real subject we need to talk about. We are practically postponing the law for another four months today, because unless this amendment is passed on June 1st, this law should apply, and it is inapplicable. Of course, the government uses some excuses and I have to make those excuses. Thus, it is said - no selection of members of the Securities Commission has been made; so who is responsible for not being chosen, why should the National Assembly amnesty be for those who are responsible, unless the composition has been changed? Furthermore, in that time, the commission was obliged to organise and bring its general acts into line with the provisions of the law, and yet to be applied and who is to blame? Then, as regards Article 256, there is a question of stock exchanges, and what the stock exchanges had to do within six months, to organise, to have the level of their underlying capital and their general acts and business in line with that law that was not applicable, which has entered into force but is not applicable. Why are we legalizing the situation now that someone didn't want to organize and comply with the law in six months? Are we authorized to do that? We didn't. What are sanctions if some stock market doesn't? The sanctions are in paragraph 3 where they are said to be - a stock exchange that does not act in a manner prescribed by the position of the 1st member, the Securities Commission shall withdraw the work permit and initiate the winding-up procedure. The problem is that even that part of that member has no one to implement. Who's responsible? State. Which one? The federal, state union, the Republic of Serbia, whatever. It's probably the Republic of Serbia. Next, Article 257 refers to stock brokers. They had a time limit for their organisation, general acts and business to comply with the provisions of that law within six months, unless they did so followed by sanctions, which is the withdrawal of the license to carry out the activity of the stock and the dealership and the initiation of the liquidation procedure. A similar provision exists as a commitment to banks, if they want to participate in the securities market, they must agree on their own acts and the size of their founding capital, and they all meet the conditions, because, according to the Banks Act, it is impossible for them to not meet the lower requirement and it is required for the trading of securities of value. Perhaps the most important provision, it is a member of the 263th law, which says - regulations for the implementation of this law will be passed within six months. These are the regulations, primarily sublegal acts, to be passed by a competent authority designated by the Securities Market Act and this is a central issue, these are legal and professional shortcomings and this bill and the basic text of the law that is not yet being applied. I have to point out another fact where this reform course, where the speed at which the connection is being captured, is it possible that those who have received all the possible commendation that they are the best in the transition, are extending the deadlines for themselves, because they have not fulfilled the obligations they have prescribed themselves. No one disturbed the government of the Republic of Serbia, the opposition, or the National Assembly was any problem, nor with the Constitutional Charter, nor with the fact that many responsibilities and many federal institutions have crossed to the republican level. Who's to blame for not doing this? We don't need to support this bill, we need to call the government to account. I must say, no matter how we decide on this bill, the consequences are the same. The parallel to that is the Law on Broadcasting. All possible deadlines have expired, have been prescribed by law, to elect the Broadcasting Agency Council, and after the deadlines have expired, the job has been completed. If this bill is not passed, it is practically not applied what has not been applied, there are no harmful consequences, it continues under the law that was passed practically since 1993 and 1994. That is why it does not require any particular urgency for this law to be adopted, but if there are objections, and I am sure there are objections to these material solutions in the Securities Market Act, and these major problems exist in this law that is not yet being applied, let this law be changed completely, to bring it into line. Because there is one problem, if everything is transferred to the Securities Commission, then there is no such control as the Government is seeking. The government needs control, and the Charter Commission is creating this secondary money on our financial market. The commission is obviously under Dinkic's value market law far from the government of the Republic of Serbia and therefore needs a new law to bring it closer, not to be so independent, that it does not create money, because the government's economic situation corresponds to the government, and a commission that is not under government control, to some decent control, and which is far from the government, can cause not only inflation, but also other much more difficult consequences. So it would be best if this bill were withdrawn, so let the government come out with a whole new text of the bill that is acceptable under these conditions, maybe not to the IMF, maybe not to some other institutions. Remember, the noise was similar to that of the law on the prevention of money laundering. Is anyone talking about this law today and does anyone know what the legal consequences and the results of the law are?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30192	The People's MP Ljubomir Mucic has the word, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30193	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, that's how you feel when the day starts with Mucic this morning, so spend the whole day with you. One question for Mr. Minister, did you dream of an earthquake in the Colubary County last night and did you hear? You're not. It was last night, so let's get a little serious about these things. Secondly, I was really surprised when the other day, on Monday, at the session of the Finance Committee, we received this text of the Law amending the Law on the Market of Securities and other financial instruments, and I was trying in some way to find some connection and logic as to why we should support the adoption of this law, given that this law consists of one member on the extension of deadlines. My question, right at the beginning, is: What if by 30 May we don't make a decision to amend this law and not extend the deadline? So all financial institutions and organisations established will work under the 1994 law and thus continue to operate. I think we can discuss here, but really my proposal would be to leave a deadline for the government to pass a special, or new law on securities of value and market and to have that deadline by the end of the year. Perhaps, through the amendments to this law, we are already giving a longer period of seven months, given that the most correct and I think the best solution to the securities market is that these laws enter into force from 1 January 2004, given that a lot of reform laws, as you call them, enter into force and will have legal facts only since 1 January 2004. It bothers me when at the end of the six-month period you've been given to comply with the legal rules, on May 22-23, you remember that you haven't done it and you're giving yourself a new four-month deadline. This is how gallantly you have seven months to comply with these laws by the end of the year and prepare everything necessary for the functioning of the new modern market principle and legislation that will regulate the securities market. I would accept the solution that we have a concept that will allow for reforms in the area of finance, as well as values and the financial market of capital, at this point also to be delayed, as well as all other reforms, although I think we have adopted several legislations on that side. The biggest problem is in this government and in this country in implementation, that is, implementing the laws that are being passed here. I think the problem here, which is highlighted, is the change where linearly instead of six months is determined within ten months. So, extending the deadline to these four or five members, as proposed, from six to ten months. Who guarantees that the deadline will also be respected, given that the minister at the Finance Committee's session and publicly admitted that the fact that the administration has admitted its mistake has forgotten this. That's how it is when the junior minister takes on a lot of his unsatisfactory shoulders. I think at this point we still have one totally unregulated securities market of value. That commission is undefined, and I don't know if the exact information that was in the means of information and whether Labus really realized that he wasn't the president of that commission, or if it wasn't that commission, although I think he did. The president of the commission is Minister Bozidar Djelic, when he realized he was the president, without Labus he would not be. Really, a lot of strangers in that part. When you're not in a position to form and agree within six months, I think for a substance like this regulated by the basic system law, it would be best to leave that law in 1994, so let it work for another five, six, seven months and by the end of the year to pass a new law that will settle this issue. To arrange for the National Bank of Serbia, where the issue is largely exaggerated, if it is a reform goal, so that the capital market improves and develops. One of the significant markets, in addition to these actions that are envisaged, is the capital market, and after especially these laws and successes, God forbid, the privatization carried out. In my view, it is also a disputed provision in Article 257 where you provided that stock exchange firms established by law only since 1994 continue to work in accordance with the amendments to the law of last 2002, and are obliged to comply with the provisions of that law within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. So it's time for them to start and coordinate by September 30, 2003. The stockbrokers referred to in Article 1 shall mean those which I have read, in order not to explain and waste much time, the stockbrokers referred to in Article 1 that were established under the 1994 law and which did not comply with the provisions of the law of 2000, shall be obliged to comply with the provisions of the law no later than nine months from the date of its entry into force. So cancel or extend that deadline. Is the same amount of funds that were required to enter as founding capital last year, 1994, or in September, or 31 August 2003, whether it is the same basis and whether it will be in the same position that followed those rules and principles and normally and legally work and function as stockbrokers and those that continue to operate under the regulations, or the 1994 law that regulates this. In my opinion, these are not legal transactions, given that there are stock brokers who should really have great significance on the financial market at the moment. That's why I think you were much more involved in harmonising relations between Serbia and Montenegro, and this morning we read that Serbia's letters to Montenegro are opening without talking about customs and other things. I would ask Mr. Minister to be here a little more often so that he is not occupied by MPs from other parliamentary clubs, so that he listens to us, too, a little more to get back to the financial situation, to the financial market, to the stock market and to the state of public finances in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30194	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30195	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Madam Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of Article 96(6). Yesterday, during the working day of this session, on three occasions, I advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I think you were there, too, that you were in charge of the session, requested that the Administrative Board plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It has been 24 hours, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure, and the Administrative Committee does not respond to the request of the MPs, who has asked for a statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure. This is not the first time that happens, but if a deadline has been set in the Rules of Procedure, then the Administrative Board is obliged to adhere to that Captain and to leave itself no right to do so when it suits him. The Rules of Procedure also provide for the possibility to set a working break, but you didn't want to. It may not have been necessary, but within 24 hours it was enough to make a statement. In addition to Article 96, I also advertise Article 117, which will quote: "The MPs are obliged to carry the identification cards with them when leaving the National Assembly Hall. If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves it in the MP’s unit, that is, his identification card, the National Assembly Service will immediately forward that card to the National Assembly secretary. The card will be returned to the next MP upon entering the hall." I ask you, in accordance with Article 117, to invite the National Assembly to do so and then, according to Article 82, to establish a quorum for the work of this congregation, since it is obvious that we are no more than 40 of us in the O.R. in this order I asked for. So, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 96, then the cards by the service, in accordance with Article 117, deliver to the Secretary of the National Assembly and then see if we can continue to work, because the parliamentary majority voted to work longer and then it's time to be in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30196	Article 96, the Management Board session was held today at 1600 hours and I expect to receive a report. Now there's another session. Article 117, I'm asking the service to pick up identification cards in the O.R. The third is Article 82. Did an officer show up? Yeah. ( ) Has the service completed the review of the cards? Yeah. I thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please let us determine if we have a quorum to continue the work. Please the service to check the first two rows to the right of the payphone - whether to use the cards. I realize we have the quorum needed to work. The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, the next registered speaker is MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session with the help of virtual MPs, especially in the sixth row, where four MPs sit, and it says six.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30198	I give you a warning. On the basis of Article 101. The Rules of Procedure, having carried out the necessary examination, the service has finished its work, we have established a quorum, and after all you have objections and you are false.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30199	Count the messengers present.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30200	You've been warned.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30201	Mrs. Micic, I would advise you not to be so nervous and call elections for the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30202	I give you a second warning, People's Messenger, because you are not in charge of taking care of how I feel.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30203	Mr. Minister, you say the gentlemen didn't arrive, as did the MPs to do so. (Gordana Pop-Lazic: He speaks very loudly with his mobile phone: "Good afternoon, Mr. President, here we are, determining the quorum. ") In principle, I don't care that the Commission has not been able to comply with these regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30204	I give notice to Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, because she is obstructing the speaker on the basis of Article 102. To MP Gordani Pop-Lazic, who also interferes with the MP as he speaks, using a mobile phone, which violates order in the National Assembly's hall, I give a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30205	Mr. Minister, I don't care if the stock market hasn't been able to bring its business into line with the law. I don't care what the stockbrokers -- the brokers couldn't do it. I don't care about banks the most. When it comes to these banks, Mr. Ministers, they simply took off to transfer the payments from the National Bank to business banks, although they were neither technical nor personnel nor organisationally prepared. The reasons for such kidnapping were that the capital could no longer be placed on green interest, so they sought a way to continue their enormous wealth at the expense of the economy and citizens. We have experienced that since January 1st, payment traffic has shifted to psolovna banks, and as a result of all this, the rise in costs of pay traffic itself, ineffectiveness, but also inaccuracy. The example works, according to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, for whom you stand as an expert, is a warrant in favour of the National Bank of Serbia to charge a commission of 200 dinars per order to the people for 20 dinars of taxes on financial transactions. This bill is a reward for everyone here, for those concerned. The criminal policy, which you're leading towards economic operators, is terrible. I'm interested, Mr. Minister, in asking you to pay attention to what I'm saying, and I've already received two notices from the president, would you make such a bill if some certain Peric failed to pay 20 dinars of taxes on financial transactions and should pay a fine of 10 to 150,000 dinars? Would you make such a bill for each case individually, for anyone who fails to adapt to the law, so that we can write new laws and allow them not to comply with the law? This law and these amendments to the law have been implemented by a banking lobby that has been existing for a long time, and which is not responsible for this law starting to apply. According to the old law, in a stock market way, the provisions of the Privatisation Act are bought "Pekabetta". We know who bought the Pecabet. She bought "Delta-holding Company", bought it by Miskovic, and where Miskovic is there, Milorad Dodik, where Milorad Dodik is there and Stanko Subotic - Cane Zabac, Milo Djukanovic and others. I wonder what those gentlemen will buy in these four months.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30206	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and the next registered speaker is MP Milovanovic. It's the last registered speaker on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30207	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill amending the Law on the Market of Papers and other financial instruments. We listened to the Minister's statement, which was exhausting, with a strong explanation, that there were two reasons for adopting this bill. The first is the Stock Exchange initiative, and the second is the alignment of acts, or last, according to the minister. This law seeks to extend the period of entry into force of this law. That deadline goes on for four months. It is likely that at the end of September, we will have the same law on the agenda, only then will the dates be changed, and the date will likely be changed on 1 January 2004. In my opinion, it is more comprehensive that these deadlines, by amendment of the government, should be extended until 1 January 2004. What's characteristic here, at least as far as change is concerned? Six members of the law are being changed. This applies to the Federal Commission for Securities of Values, as well as to the financial market, which, I hear, has not yet been formed, whose chairman is our minister, Mr Djelic. All persons shall also be subject to sanctions, unless they comply with these provisions in this law, except for the members of the Securities Commission appointed in accordance with the rules which have been in force until these regulations enter into force, and they shall continue to carry out their work. What are they supposed to do when they haven't been able to do it by now? Of course, that's one big question now. The stock exchanges, which were established under the Stock Exchanges Act, which was brought in 1994, are required to bring their acts into line and to bring their basic capital level into line. It is important to extend the deadline for the adoption of acts, and no extension for capital. There's Djelic rigorous. When it comes to the harmonisation of acts -- it can be a birthright for another four months, whether it's a federal commission, whether it's a stock exchange, whether it's banks, but founding capital, strictly defined by the previous law, stays for nine months -- that's not where we can play. The authorised banks, which operate in accordance with the Exchanges, Stock Exchanges and Stock Exchanges Act, carry out value trading operations. They are given a deadline for them to agree their business acts in the next four months. What are the sanctions for these stock exchanges, for these stock brokers? Penalties are such that they will be treated for their rights to conduct brokerage-dealing operations by launching a procedure for their liquidation. It will only endanger the officers who carry out this decision. We know who the dealers and brokers are, and we know who the bank founders are. In Article 263 of this Act, the rules for the implementation of this Act have been laid down within six months. That deadline will be extended to 10 months. When this government was formed, then it was said that politicians and experts were in the government. Here on this committee, from a group of experts, they have entered the commission and they have failed to bring over the carpets, or rather, sublegal acts, which would regulate the rules of play in the stock market, or in the drug business, or in the securities market of value, so I have the impression that the minister should withdraw some sanctions, be punished for such failures and such a distraction of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because we're doing a job here that's too high, unnecessary, and we'll probably do it again in September, so we can get that deadline to January. If it's still necessary, we'll be able to re-align it by next June. All this is saying that this government is very insecure, that it is not in a position for it to do what it says, let alone think about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so it is best for this government to resign, to call new elections, to choose a government that will choose its deadlines and its rules of play exactly, properly and properly, especially in a way that will be for the improvement of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30208	Are you answering the Rules of Procedure? (He speaks to the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30209	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 102, which refers to when the President of the National Assembly gives notice to the MP. I have to quote, because that's how the president of the assembly asks MPs to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The warning is made to the MP: - who approached the speaker without permission of the National Assembly: neither did Miss Natasa Jovanovic, nor did I; - who spoke before he asked and got his word; we also did not do it; - which, despite the warning of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda; we were not behind the pay phone, so we could not do it. Then: - if the speaker interrupts or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise threatens freedom of speech; we did not throw Mr. Arsic away and we did not disturb him; - if he presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of others; we also did not do so; - if he uses curses and offensive expressions; we did not do so. - if other procedures violate the order of the sitting or act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure; the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, if any, do not provide that phones cannot be entered into the sitting room. I'm sorry if I disturbed Mr. Ambassador and, perhaps, because of my little louder answer to the phone call from The Hague, they couldn't hear Mr. Arsic. Mr. Seselj called me on the phone. They're bad relationships with The Hague, and I had to be a little louder. So I ask the Administrative Committee to declare whether I have responded to the invitation of President Seselj from The Hague and have been forced to make myself a little louder, I have injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30210	So, the answer will be given by the Administrative Committee. Since you've already quoted the provisions you've violated yourself, I can only give you one piece of advice. Since they're having a bad relationship with The Hague, next time you go outside, you can talk as much as you want loudly. So we have another one reported for the word and time of the three-minute Serbian Radical Party. There is a word from MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is little time to look back on such an important law, although the derogations of this bill are rather vague (you probably are). But in what is written, it is not clear to us MPs, especially those who are not in the area of finance. You are referring to the reasons for the adoption of the law, that participants in transactions related to the Securities Market Act and other financial instruments should agree on their business and organisation and other acts with this law, with an extension of the deadline until 1 October. But the question here is, Mr. Minister, that you are not resolute in that area, which all these banks are obliged to do. If memory doesn't cheat on us, a large number of banks, about 20, you've liquidated, among them are liquid and non-equitable banks. Of course, about 8,000 people are out of work. That probably worries you less. Meanwhile, they came into the scene and were privileged by the government by some called the bank "Cepter Bank", "Rajffeisen Bank", "The Commercial Bank", "Vojvodjanska Banka" and others. The Securities Commission should also bring its business and organisation into line with this deadline that you extended until 1 October. But the same question of responsibility should be asked, why, at this time of the period, this deadline that was applicable under the basic provisions of themazacon has not already been done. What are the stock exchanges that operate in Serbia? Only one stock exchange in Belgrade. Who's privileged on those stock exchanges, in fact, on that stock market, since there's only one stock exchange. Companies, government companies and individual banks among them, the most "Delta Bank". If MPs do not know what bank it is, remember when the kidnapped owner of Miroslav Miskovic, with mediation, also some people from power say. But that's another question. In the event that it does not comply with its business under this law, the stockbroker-dealer company shall be deprived of the authorisation to carry out its activities. It seems that the basic rule of conduct, both in financial business and in business, is dealers, etc. The securities of value raises the basic question, and it may seem to you that it is too sharp for me to mention -- and where is the money, which you mentioned so much during Operation Sabela, that 100 kilos of drugs are sold daily, and there is no money anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30212	You've exceeded your allowed time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30213	Here, I'm done. Is it possible that he's rerouted his currents abroad through stock exchanges and securities? It's up to you to investigate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30214	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if the presidents of the parliamentary groups appear for the word? No, I don't. ) Since there is no application for a word, I conclude the search and, according to Article 136(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. We have two amendments after which the minister will give the final word. He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have shown, visiting on state television, on RTS, which is not available to the National Assembly and to the general public, that there are problems in the functioning of your ministry, i.e. on the route of your Ministry, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, etc. The Council of Ministers and all that you took on your shoulders, abolishing the former SR Yugoslavia, and creating a quasi-state community. When last year was about the Securities Market Act, we spoke in the context of the functioning of the Securities Exchange and somehow it was at the same time that the Privatization Act was adopted. Much has happened in the meantime, but none of the promised, Mr. Djelic, nor what you promised, nor Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, Minister of Privatisation, has already created a vacuum space in which the most powerful, so-called "mixers". It's a banking lobby. One of these has been mentioned several times today by the MPs of the SRS. It would be best for you to accept the amendment that I have submitted to Article 1, that he be deleted, as well as colleagues of Ljubojevic who will explain the amendment to Article 2, because it is absolutely impossible, however much they promise you, Mr Pajtic and Mr Sinisa Mitrovic, that by 30 May at midnight, or 29, my colleague corrects me, you will vote to amend this law. What characterizes such a move is not just a discrepancy, the one I was talking about, but the inadequacy of the government, of your ministry, of you personally and of the people surrounding you in the rest of the DOS to quickly, as your mentors from the so-called. The European Union, and then as the law obliges you, you solve growing problems. But it wouldn't be a big deal if it were just the banks, the stock market and your foreign employers, but it's the scariest thing that you're expected first of all by the citizens of Serbia to solve these economic and social problems. It's obvious that the state is broadcasting securities of value, but we just have to look at it in the context of the huge budget deficit for 2003. Soon we'll probably be in a situation where we have some budget rebalancing on the agenda again. Mr Djelic, before that happens, certain moves by the SRS parliamentary group are possible in this sense, because we who are domestically referring to everything that needs to be old one responsible government, one parliamentary group or its representatives, cannot also be allowed to say better in this general mixing and kidnapping of money by citizens, this is what you and the people who are in such a way having non-domestic relations with budget funds - we tolerate that huge sums of money, billions and billions of dinars are being allocated non-purpose, as was the case with RTS, while on the other hand do not fulfil those legal obligations that you yourself have committed when you voted on this law. Mr. Minister, it's symptomatic, and you complained to the lady who hosted your RTS, that because of that and health, you were threatened, that both you and the people around you and the nerves and, as you said, the nerves gave in. It is symptomatic that you cannot agree on basic matters, but in the "officer" we have also received a decision on the appointment of the acting president of the commission. If we don't have a president legally and legitimately elected in the country, then at least you can make a deal for one commission, not that you have an employee here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30216	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government in almost all cases when proposing laws to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia requires that the law or entry into force on the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" or the next day of publication in the "Official Messenger" and Article 120. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, still valid, still current, clearly defines when laws or other general acts enter into force. I quote Article 120: "The law, second regulation or general act shall enter into force at the earliest eighth day of the day of publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons, it is intended to enter into force earlier." As far as the SRS parliamentary group is concerned, we believe that, in the light of this law, neither the finance minister nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia has justified and overly explained the reasons for the urgent procedure and for the entry into force of this law the next day since the day of the publication in "The Official Messenger". Given the fact that on 30 May 2002 it was mandatory to start applying and agreeing participants in the paper market with the provisions of this law, if we know that it is on Friday 30th and if this law is adopted, it is quite clear and it is clear that this law will not be possible to adopt tomorrow - 29 May, that he will be the earliest, given the debate in the Serbian Parliament, will be adopted on Saturday 31 May, so neither will this provision of Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments will not respect the deadline until 30 May 2003. The question arises why this deadline has not been respected so far, why no value charter committee has been formed. It is obvious that the conflicts within the ruling coalition, within some political parties acting as the opposition, and in fact they are the government, have monetary authority, so great that it was not possible to reach a compromise and form that commission. That is the basic reason why this law is proposed and why the six-month deadline shifts to 10 months. We are not given any guarantee here that within 10 months, or from this next four months, this conflict will be overcome within the coalition partners and that within 10 months these laws will be harmonised, i.e. that the alignment of participants in the paper market will be carried out with the provisions of the law. It can easily happen that in four months we get a law similar to this, in which we are asked to move the 10-month period to 12 months. Unlike counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, who suggested that these amendments be adopted, that the law be deleted, I would suggest that the finance minister resign and do something good for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30218	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I ask if the Minister of Finance and Economy Mr Bozidar Djelic wants the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30219	I'd just like to comment on a few questions and try to answer a few concerns. As for, first of all, the reasons; there's no third reason but the two I mentioned. The first is that really people who are dealing with interventions or, in fact, markets or use securities of value, because at the moment of constitutional change there was not enough will or strength or concentration to do the job, and it was required, because it was a very large job, they simply were unable to do so within the given deadlines and it was a pity. However, I think they might still be able to do it, but it is more important and this is why this delay for four months is necessary, and I will explain why four, not six or 12 months: this is because it is required, as the Constitutional Charter Act requires, that by the end of 2003, the Member State - Serbia-Montenegro - the powers that pass to the level of those Member States and the whole legislation fit and the scope of the rest of that legislation. That's what we're going to propose to this esteemed home in the next few weeks, because, of course, we're doing a lot on the amendments and additions of this law, as we do, as I mentioned, to the new insurance law, which is necessary and we're going to hear about some abuses in some insurance companies, such as DDOR Novi Sad, so we're going to introduce order on that insurance market. Finally, I would like to comment on a few sentences, prepare amendments and additions to the Law on Payments. Here we can say that the transition of payment traffic to the banks of Serbia was the most successful of all countries in the former SFRY. That is, according to the estimates of all those who have followed these changes, the most successful and the fastest. Was that perfect? It's not. And for three reasons, we will propose changes and additions. First, it is because the system of forced collection, prepared by the National Bank, did not give the expected results and is now changing, which is necessary. The second reason we've seen this in the relationship between the state and the banks, we don't have the appropriate punishment for those banks that don't respect the agreement and the contract, we have the possibility to go through debt-trust relations, on the one hand, or exclusions from the so-called. RTGS, which means the end of the bank, and we're going to be looking for some fines for those banks who are deaf to the legitimate intentions of the state to manage their money. The third reason is to introduce an even more efficient system in terms of harvesting and allocation of public revenues, especially what has proved to be unproblematic, we can see this later, which is even more effective, which is to nominate revenues for local self-government of some smaller fiscal forms, because there were problems. I know that at one point there were as many as four billion dinars in some temporary accounts, because banks were missing orders, and there were public revenues and where they were not properly formed, and therefore some local self-government had difficulties during the first few weeks of payment traffic application. However, globally, all independent experts and people from the former republics, including international financial organisations, have highly assessed the transition of payment traffic to banks and there may be a difference between what used to happen, and that is that there has been talk of crossing payment traffic into banks, but it has always been proposed, and we have announced it and we have done so. As far as other essential reasons are concerned, as I have noted, in the sense of better application of this law, we will propose some changes and additions. They will not be essential, but they are important enough to go through the amendments and additions of this law, so that it fully corresponds to Serbia's economic and legal environment and I would not go back to those few elements that I have indicated, we will talk about it, I'm sure, in a few weeks. One topic I have not mentioned, which has been mentioned twice by some speakers, is the issue of Serbia-Montenegro. We can note that the financial system's capital market area is now fully in Serbia's control, i.e. Black Mountains. This law that we did not propose, nor did you vote it, but was proposed by the federal institutions and voted by the federal parliament, it was formally Yugoslav, but was in fact Serbian. It was then that Montenegro had its Law on Charters of Values and had already arranged this domain in a unique way for several years. I must say that after the law is amended, we will have a question that is not easy, which is important, which is how the transport of securities of value between Serbia and Montenegro can be achieved. It's another element that we're going to have to find and regulate both in this law and in an appropriate act at the level of the state community, that in this way there is one state community, that we have the harmonisation of economic systems in that domain. Unfortunately, given how far these things have gone in Montenegro, it will not be easy to do it at once, but of course, it will be one of the steps and we will have to take it. At last what was a question, I just want to explain some institutions, because several speakers have messed up these pots a little bit, we have two institutions that are mentioned. On the one hand, you have a Bank Recovery and Deposit Insurance Agency, there's this advice you talked about, and it's an authority that was established even further in 1989, its goal is to restructure and restructure, unfortunately, as we saw last year, and to initiate a procedure, i.e. the bankruptcy of some banks that are insolvent and insolvent. In addition, in the amendments and additions to the relevant law, we will propose the same in this package concerning the financial system that this agency, just as the Privatisation Agency has very clearly specified information for the privatisation of the real sector, that this agency be clearly designated as that executive body that will deal with bank privatisation. In this way, where the Ministry of Privatisation oversees, along with the Privatisation Agency, the whole part of the real sector, the Ministry of Finance and Economy, along with this bank restructuring agency, for the privatisation of banks, and this will be clearly indicated in its new name, the same will be indicated in the parallel for this same transparency and process that awaits us. Because through changes at the level of one law at the federal level, the state has become the majority owner of nine banks and three banks should be privatised, of course through one tender process that will be public, which will be public by the end of this year, and this is the JU Bank, the Novosadska Banka and Continental Banka. Another body, it's a Securities Committee and it's called the Federal Securities Commission, and its intelligence is monitoring the transport of securities of value, no matter where they come from, whether it's banks, insurance companies or some other institutions. At this point, we are actively considering an optimal model of the organisation of supervision of this financial system, and we will most likely propose to this respected home a concept that has been well accepted in transition countries in the last ten years, which is that supervision of insurance companies and pension funds that will also appear with us. And it is very important that they be strictly regulated, even if the securities of value were united in one agency, or a strong administration, while the supervision of banks would remain in the National Bank for the next few years, where the work is done correctly today. So that's the two things. Neither is Labus in the securities commission, nor am I, but what you were talking about is about the Bank Rehabilitation Agency. All in all, you have ahead of you something more technical, but also essential, in terms of the desire that this very important law in implementing some processes, such as the privatisation process, further traffic of shares that will be put into circulation through the privatisation process, as well as bonds, state and private ones, and not to mention that it will be very important to ensure that there is no trade in some insider so-called. privileged information. Because of all of this, I think it's quite comprehensive to devote a few more weeks to making this law come out and start applying it in the right way and in this way we can have another key point in our legal traffic, which will allow everything in the financial system to take place in a civilized and fair way. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30220	I thank Mr. Minister and conclude the search of the bill in particular. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA You have received a proposal for a decision taken by MP Bojan Pajtic. You have received amendments to the motion for a decision by the MPs: Veroljub Arsic; Branislav Blažić; Dusan Ilic; together Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic; together Zivodarka Dacin and Đura Lazić and together Joca Arsic and Rajko Baralić. I'm asking the representatives of the parliamentary groups to file an application for the orderly word. You have received reports from the Administrative and Legislative Committee. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. I'm asking if the motionist wants a word. Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30221	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, especially Article 68. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are heading towards what I believe all the political parties in this Parliament advocate, which is strengthening parliamentaryism, strengthening Parliament's role and insisting on parliament's control function as the highest legislative body and as a representative of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What we are proposing in the Rules of Procedure is that four new committees are introduced in parliament, and I note that exactly the role of the committee is something in which modern parliaments differ from the parliaments we have had so far. We should enable the Committee to play a more active role both in the legislative process, not only after the laws have been made, but also in the process of making laws and in drawing up a general strategy in areas of vital and strategic importance for society's progress. The Committee on European Integration is something that is unusually important from the point of view of our obligation to harmonise our laws, our laws, the regulations and the laws of the European Union that we seek. The Committee on Economic Reforms is a kind of roof committee, which includes 12 representatives of those committees dealing with the most important economic areas, science and technological development, economy and agriculture, the Legislative Committee and all committees whose role is disproportionately important in the process of economic reforms. The Gender Equality Committee is also something every society demands. We meet him practically in all parliaments. We are among the last parliaments to take over such an institution. So the existence of a gender equality committee imposes reality; if the structure of the population, the relationship of women and men is looked at, and compared to the relationship in state structures, parliament, relevant businesses, we will see that this relationship is dramatic in favour of men. If we compare women's and men's admissions, we'll see that this relationship is dramatic again in favour of the male population. A similar relationship, but less dramatic, which we have to admit, exists in Western countries. So, in Western countries too, we meet this kind of discrimination against women's sex, a more beautiful sex and a smarter sex. In that sense, we as parliament have an obligation and to consider from the point of view of this relationship those regulations that are in front of us. So, from those rules on employment to the electoral laws, which should provide for quotas in the direction of positive discrimination between those members of the better sex who are involved in politics or potentially need to be found in parliament, through rules relating to education, health care and health insurance and all rules that go towards the protection of women, both from the point of view of their role in society and from the point of view of their reproductive function, which is vital to all of us. The Committee on Combating Poverty is also something that should serve to analyse and monitor what the strategy is, both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the strategy of all those ministries and state bodies dealing with the fight against poverty. It is one of the institutions also taken over from parallel rights and from foreign parliaments. None of these committees we're proposing are new. It is certain that all committees contribute qualitatively to what we want. So, by strong parliamentaryism, the increased role of parliament in social life, the role of parliament in the whole legislative process and the control function of parliament in those areas of social life that are of strategic importance, not only for this structure and for this assembly of parliament, but I am deeply convinced that it will be of strategic importance for each of the next democratically elected parliaments in Serbia. In that sense, unlike the situation when we came to this Parliament in 2000, that is, in early 2001, as a new synergy and inherited less - more only the building, but not the institution, inherited only the company, but not the structure, our role and our obligation is to achieve the right European Parliament for the next generations and for the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30222	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? A notifier on behalf of the Administrative Committee or on behalf of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, called first for the word. Doctor, I'm sorry. Do you want to use the time scheduled to expose the president or half the time to leave? Half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30223	This would be discrimination if it were the other one. Dear fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, let me say a few words on these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We will not support the proposed amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we believe they are not essential, they will not and cannot improve the work of the Serbian Parliament. Instead of proposing amendments to the Rules of Procedure that would improve the work of the Assembly, the Proposer has changed what has been seen by several MPs or parliamentary groups as bad, problematic, which has been the subject of disputes and different interpretations, the Proposer suggests changes that do not touch the essence of the Rules of Procedure, and we have assessed that it is very bad, so that they have firstly a marketing significance. Long ago through several assembly sessions and topics we discussed, even those of sensational character, they are not interested in the essence, they are not interested in the progress of the work of the Assembly, but only in marketing. The impression that is to be imposed in public, and what is further achieved by the amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the stories of some other laws, is achieved by the control of the media and the transfer to the public of DOS views. Dear colleagues, the proposal for the formation of new committees is obviously a propaganda cartoon, with an attempt at least a little public, before the elections, to change the bad picture of Serbia's parliament, which has been created over the past two and a half years and here in parliament by various amendments to the Rules of Procedure and various developments. Remember only the famous vote from abroad, various disciplinary violations, fights and the like, as well as the way parliament works in public, where an objective campaign against the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the opposition has been held several times. We expected the subject to be changed and completed to be essential things. It is interesting that for this work of the Assembly, the most important document, because the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is our mini constitution, which has changed for the fourth, fifth time. Of course, always according to the needs of DOS, either the original or the one that's now left. Instead of changing the criticised provisions, cosmetic changes appear. There are provisions that have shortened the rights of MPs, that they may come forward in the assembly, that they may speak, that they may submit amendments. There are other provisions in the Rules of Procedure that allow the formation of false parliamentary groups, the theft of mandates and these parties that did not participate in the December 2000 elections. So we have a unique case in our parliament, perhaps a rare case in Europe, that the political parties that were not in the elections are presented in the Serbian Parliament by interpreting the Rules of Procedure. Not only that, but to decide a common state, this state union of Serbia-Montenegro. There are other provisions that allow the punishment of MPs and money, yet a rare case in parliamentary practice, with the sovereignty of the chairman, the president of the National Assembly or the one who replaces him, as Mr. Maravić, is again rare, to make warnings on the basis of the subjective criteria, which has absolutely proved to be bad. There are no specific provisions on the public work of the Assembly. The congregation does not respect its decision without mentioning everything about direct transfers. I think that this is a great minus of this assembly and will not be able to objectively do anything more to be valued, but what objectively has value there are many other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which have in practice proved to be unarranged, flawed, subject to double selective interpretation, but here we see by Mr. Pajtic, the promoter, that nothing has been done there. It is not surprising, too, because I say that all of the marketing character, that even the amendments of the Rules of Procedure did not follow the conclusions of the meeting held a month ago in this assembly, with the participation of the OSCE, which pointed to much that should be improved in the Committee's work, and even proposed something, though one committee might be undermined, but the rest absolutely doesn't matter. Instead, we have a proposal to form four new committees, although there are already 25, which in itself speaks enough, so we will have a total of 29 committees. When we look at the structure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 19 ministries, when we see how many agencies there are, and we count 15, how many institutions and other institutions are formed by the Government, then it looks like we're getting to the old maximum known as Murphy's law -- if you don't want to solve something, you form a committee, a commission, an agency or something that's obviously on the same wave to find a space for the engagement of one of the many D.O.A.'s dwarf associates. It is worth warning that these committees do not have specific content. Here, for example, I will quote the position of Article 2 of the 68g on the Committee on Gender Equality, where the Committee sees the state of policy, the enforcement of the law. For God's sake, the Gender Equality Committee is considering the enforcement of laws, other regulations and general acts by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, other bodies and officials responsible for the National Assembly. This is an absolute association of something else. Otherwise, there are constitutional provisions that speak of gender equality and it must be regulated in any case without such a committee, but if the Council of Europe orders, then there is nothing and then it will certainly be, because whatever the Council of Europe orders, and DOS answers, it is respected. In reverse, of course, he's disrespected. Two super-committees were also created, for economic reforms and gender equality. The structure of the Committee on Economic Reforms, I must admit, regarding this second position, that in it there are representatives of 12 different committees, is in itself ridiculous, because if it was really wanted to form an autonomous committee, then it would be logical to reflect the composition of the Assembly, and the proposal for representatives of other committees to be on this committee itself is unsurpassed, but my God and that is part of what makes the proposal. The proposed committees are taking over the work done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to a significant extent, as they are objectively dealing with its work. It would be better to redistribute jobs within the existing committees. Why is there a Legislative Committee, why is there a Justice Committee, if it is necessary to bring individual documents into line with European legislation, and it needs logically, but it is obvious that the government should also be involved. When it comes to individual committees here, not to mention two, the Committee on Economic Reform and the Committee on Poverty Reduction. First, talk about economic reforms, two and a half years after this government is formed, it's ridiculous. What economic reforms can now be implemented in Serbia, it is very well known to Serbian citizens, but only that is not known by the government. I am fully convinced of the story that the government is constantly pushing for, and that is to make Serbia a better living. Only Serbian citizens haven't figured it out yet. They'll figure it out when the election time comes, but then the fat government will pay for it. Looking at the economic indicators of Serbia's economy, we are objectively in a catastrophic situation, with a two-year drop in production rate, with a huge unemployment rate of about a million people, with all economic indicators that are extremely negative and now in the context of economic reforms and poverty reduction. As one of my colleagues said, we would be short here to put the title - the poverty reduction committee and the bright future, as in past times. It's logical that this doesn't have a slight relationship and that the only person who suggested it was essentially marketing. The question of this fate is a matter of days objectively because of the disputes that exist in the DOS and it is only a matter of time before this assembly is dissolved, new elections are announced and essentially these committees are formed, and that they are likely to be formed because of the relationship that exists in parliament now, they will essentially not contribute to improving parliament's work. Since time is up, I will leave something to say tomorrow, because we Socialists, in addition to the view that these committees should not be, and I mentioned some of the most important reasons, have a proposal that the committee, in our opinion, should form, because the issue in the work of the government and the ministries so far, is simply on the side, and we think it is of great importance for Serbia, because it aims to increase the birth rate and improve the demographic image of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30224	Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, answered the words. Do you want to use 20 minutes? Ten, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30225	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after that meeting in the Serbian Parliament, which was quite appropriate with OSCE representatives, and the result of these talks was that a very critical Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and some of the provisions sanctioning the MPs in the Serbian Assembly, I expected you to go out at the will of the European public with these amendments and additions, and to propose a democratic Rules of Procedure, at least to remove that responsibility and the burden that you will bear, which is that during your authority you have brought to the last non-democratic Rules of Procedure, which has first compromised the rights of MPs. That it is not only a flat-rate assessment of one opposition political party tells the fact that yesterday the Constitutional Court decided that MPs have their mandates and that they are responsible only to their voters, which means that each of us corresponds to the number of voters, which is somewhere around 26,000 from their constituency. Since Serbia was one electoral unit, if we share the number of voters with the number of MPs, we come to the conclusion that each of us corresponds only to these voters and to no one else. As a result, you may have had a delay, but the amendment could go, the decision is by emergency procedure, that at least those provisions provided for in Articles 100, 101, 102 and 103 be eliminated from this Rules of Procedure. In addition to the fact that the unconstitutional provisions, unfortunately the Constitutional Court, which has been fully politicised, did not state itself about the request that we have made, to review these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but for you, it is obviously the most likely thing to do now is to increase the number of committees, which, in our opinion, there are many. It was common for the number of committees to be followed by the number of ministries, and of course we always have the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislative Committee, but it is an optimal number, so that each committee would be parent to some of the Government's proposals or some matter coming to the Assembly's agenda. So, 25 committees, plus these four committees, are a total of 29 committees, so the president and vice president, who have a slightly higher coefficient because they carry out this extra duty, and plus the cost of coming to the sessions, and you're always complaining that parliament is expensive, you could have that reason not to increase the number of committees, but to the individual committees, already existing, eventually put something of what you wanted in charge. The Committee on Economic Reforms is a committee that could absolutely be, as well as a matter to be placed in his jurisdiction, added to the Privatisation Committee, as the ministry is also called the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, so all that this committee does would be subject to the committee. The Committee on European Integration is something that is not at all within the competence of the National Assembly, but the government should in itself take care of it in implementing its general policy, which it did when it was formed, whether its laws, proposed by the Serbian Parliament, will lead to European integration. But European integration is not only about compliance with the rules of the European Community, but also about meeting certain conditions to enter the European Union. If Serbia will enter the European Union on its own, then perhaps that committee is needed. But we still see that we are in the common state, or the state community, even though those who signed the agreement now seem to say "Puj dots do not apply, we are now for a self-sufficient Serbia". The poverty reduction committee best shows us where this government leads, where this country leads. So he leads us to poverty and believes that it is necessary for this assembly to establish a special committee that will deal with poverty. Every bill should be such that it leads to progress, not poverty. If that committee had been named a standard board, I would have understood that completely. That would be affirmative. But the poverty reduction committee, it's impossible to survive as a need. The Gender Equality Committee, as Mr. Pitiæ put it here, as a woman, I must say I don't feel it. On the contrary, I have the impression that there is discrimination between men in our society, not discrimination against women. On the other hand, I understand Mr. Pitiæ suggested this, but he gave an inadequate explanation. Men are increasingly the subject of abuse. Women get to work easier. These European banks came and they want young, beautiful references on their heads, and women are more suitable and better for these jobs, they are more patient in those years and more educated. Men really have reason to feel discriminated against. Perhaps they should be women on this committee and deal seriously with the problem of discrimination against men in our society. What Mr. Pajtic said, as an explanation for the introduction of this committee, that women are discriminated against, and now there is Mr. Maravic at the post of chairman, but if Mrs. Micic were there, I would sort of agree that it is really not good for the shoulders of a woman to put on such responsibility and so much obligation. Look at how many of you men are here. A woman's shoulders are all over the place, and she's doing it successfully. He performs the office of the President of the Assembly, and the President of the State, and so many receptions, and then banquets, and dinners, and the reception of ambassadors, and five ambassadors are in the National Assembly in one day, so he has to come here to lead the session, and deal with us insubordination MPs. It's really discrimination. In that sense, I would really agree that there is discrimination, but positive discrimination. It is hardly that any man, here, from the National Assembly, would endure all that Mrs. Micic is wearing so unshallantly. Although, sometimes he loses his compass, sometimes he has a little disillusioned view, but it's probably the consequences of too much work and perhaps private jobs. Remember, we are women and mothers and wives and sisters and daughters. Discrimination, as far as the woman is concerned, is exactly our assembly, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30226	Thank you. The deputy president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Srdjan Petrovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30227	I was looking at this assembly traffic light of ours, because now we see that there are 96 MPs in the hall. That's not the correct number. On the basis of Article 82(2), Rules of Procedure, I ask that the application of the electronic system determine the quorum of one third of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-28-0.u30228	Mr. Petrovic has advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 82 of Article 2 - the determination of the quorum. Before we move on to the quorum, I'd like to ask the experts from the electronics center to submit a list of the present MPs, according to the record. People's MPs, please insert their identification cards into MPs' units. I find that 60 MPs are present in the O.R. This is what we'd do today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The first registered speaker is MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
