ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33534	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, following long expectations, tactics, lobbying, pressure and trade, however, on the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, came up with a proposal for the resolution of the president of the National Assembly of Ms Natasa Micic, who submitted a group of 54 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Socialist People's Party. Ms. Micic, as vice-president of the National Assembly, was elected to the post of president on 6 December 2001 by the votes of DOS MPs, and the rest was remembered for voting for herself. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are prescribed that the President must carry out the tasks foreseen by the Constitution, chair the meetings, take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, the work of the working bodies of the Assembly and carry out all other tasks foreseen by law and by the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The motion for a resolution tabled indicated that Natasa Micic was knowingly in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, starting with the appointment of sessions, holding order at sessions and ensuring the equality of the MPs, most often applying double arches, not allowing MPs to vote to represent the citizens who chose them. The fact is that the political system under the three-year DOS rule is almost destroyed. With the continued violation of the Constitution and the law, the destruction of institutions, the subjugation of justice and the media, the needs of the executive authority and the paralysis of the work of the National Assembly, society sinks deeper and deeper into the crisis. The post of president of Serbia has practically been abolished. The Constitutional Court shall, if necessary, become the hearer of the current authority. The judiciary has been in the service of the government that has realised the party interests of DOS members, who for three years have created a false picture of their work in the congregations, of democratic decision-making, and of a multi-party system in Serbia. Although the growing and increasing political conflicts of former allies have been. The president of the National Assembly, Ms. Micic, is obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, which means that it must be impartial, objective and just, which is not the case here and that unconstitutional Rules of Procedure are deliberately applied and, under its "discretional law", interrupts, restricts, punishes and evicts MPs from the hall. Instead of being an institution in the legislative authority in which political views will be involved, represent citizens, adopt laws and exercise control over the executive power through the MPs, who are free and without fear of consequences can deliver opinions and vote precisely thanks to Mrs Natasa Micic, today the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the highest body of the legislative authority does not exist. It turned into a mere listener to the government of the Republic of Serbia and DOS interest, which was confirmed yesterday by Prime Minister Zivkovic. The Rules of Procedure are constantly changing. The MPs have been prevented from speaking and submitting amendments. Parliamentary mandates and votes are being stolen. A remote voting system has been introduced. The sessions are without quorum, although it has been reduced to one-third of the total number of MPs, identification cards have been misused. Natasa Micic supports frequent falsifications of the vote, and thus participates in falsifying the political will of the people. Only counterfeits can hold the election will of December 2000, which has changed today and the DOS and its government no longer have support in Parliament and probably within the people. And, in addition to the Rules of Procedure that the president is scheduled to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Micic has repeatedly pointed out in public that the report on the presence of MPs is obtained from a service registered by MPs who are applying in front of the hall, as well as from the service responsible for issuing documents. At the same time, he adds that she is looking at the monitor and the report received, but does not answer the question of who is responsible for the work of the service, as well as who is responsible for the authenticity of the vote, i.e. whether the presence and voting of MPs in the hall coincides with the computer copy, i.e. the listing. The president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly apparently usurped her powers and misused her position, ordering the secretary that without her approval parliamentary MP groups could not issue a computer copy or voting list, and non-parliamentary parties came to him. So, what happened in the Parliament on July 22, 2003, when we voted for Governor Kori Udovicki, and we didn't adopt the minutes from that session here, there are elements of the markings of criminal acts, abuse of official office, unconscious service work, counterfeiting, and concealment of the crime. It was almost the same or similar situation when voting in principle and voting in general on the Law on Liability for Human Rights, or the lustration Law proposed by its party, and where it is seen in the computer copy that MPs have been misused for voting, which is why the outcome of the vote on this law cannot be full, or valid. Ms. Micic was very common, and especially since 18 March 2003, when an emergency was imposed against the constitution, she repeatedly violated the Rules of Procedure when the National Assembly session was scheduled. The calls and proposals of the law were received in the offices of the parliamentary groups, without time to read the materials and propose the amendments in time, not to mention that the points and discussions on them were united, and the discussion and the duration of the period were shortened. That's why our laws are pretty bad, incomplete, contradictory and very often inapplicable. Since Ms. Micic, the president, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, the government as a pronoun most often has no representative when a search is being conducted at Parliament's meetings, and also, the government, regardless of what the obligation exists, has not delivered its opinions and views on the proposal for certain acts on the agenda. As acting president of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Micic, president of the Assembly, made a decision on introducing an emergency situation in Serbia, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the law governing the state of emergency. This unconstitutional and illegal decision was lifted and direct TV broadcasts session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Micic has just made it possible for the state of emergency to extend over the National Assembly after the state of emergency has been lifted. As acting president of the Republic of Serbia in the past ten months, she has sent herself letters and state correspondence to make it difficult to decide to call the presidential elections. The citizens of Serbia, and especially those who have previously and today followed a direct TV broadcast, have had the opportunity to see how Mrs Micic chaired the sessions, are unique in the assessment that Serbia has never had such a bad president, and this can be concluded by her address to Parliament, where she believes it should have been worse. Natasa Micic appears to be a good example of not being able to work and acting as president of the National Assembly. In the end, regardless of the visual appearance of Ms. Micic or "the first lady of Serbia", painting for the media and comparisons with film giants, and what is indisputable, I am sorry that she is not present here, because of the impartiality, bias, vengefulness and abuse of authority, as she becomes evil for parliamentaryism in Serbia, must be resolved from this extremely important function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33535	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33536	I have a proposal for the Rules of Procedure that means that, until the President comes, the disputed President of the Assembly is interrupted, because it is completely pointless for us to discuss her trust when she is not here. In this way, it further demeans this congregation and even more, the applicants of the initiative and us who are to resolve it - even to honor the presence and to hear all our remarks. Then who are we talking to? The assembly does not exist for the sake of both its position as president and its chairmanship. I have a proposal by the Rules of Procedure, which means that we stop by the debate until it is possible for Natasa Micic to come here and be there and that, as we say, we can, "teth-a-tet", face-to-face, bring each other remarks to work and remarks in the way that she defamed the Assembly and violated the Rules of Procedure, just as she is now doing by not deigning us to be here. I don't know if there's a bit of an obstacle job in the state for the president of the assembly, but to attend a session to discuss the resolution of the president of the assembly. I have this proposal, so, according to the Rules of Procedure, to stop until Natasha Micic's presence is ensured at this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33537	National MP Dejana Mihajlov, before we decide to put the vote on the agenda, with a brief introduction -- that until he says the words, he is the owner of the words, but when the excuses then the words rule him. What you suggested to the National Assembly, there are two words I should put to the vote. It's one thing to end the debate, and the other to stop the debate. The only thing I can do that you didn't suggest is something else. I'm going to ask you to... [[Dejan Mihajlov, from the place: To take a break until Natasha Micic arrives.]] By throwing you off the bench, knowing that you've made an inadmissible mistake as president of the MP's club, that you're looking for an end to the debate. The responsibility of the chairman for what you said at the speaker is to put it to the vote and that would mean a complete interruption of the debate on the trust of National Assembly President Natasa Micic. What wasn't your idea... I'm guessing this debate ends. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the scene: May I make my suggestion specific? ) Of course, MP Dejan Mihajlov, a precision of the proposal that he failed to explain in his first address.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33538	Okay, in a good manner of class elders, you've explained to the MPs how and what they do, it's very good, but apply it in your party and family, but don't do it in the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33539	National MP, your request to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly means the support of all MPs. It is my duty that you stand by your own request when you address the National Assembly and respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33540	There's a right to be, the right to distinguish terms of interruption and suspension. Interrupting the procedure means that the debate will stop until the conditions for the debate to continue. The suspension of the procedure means that it should be terminated and that the debate should not continue. So, we asked to sort of interrupt the session until Natasa Micic arrives, and whether it is a pause, whether it is another way, but simply to end the demeaning of the Assembly and the MPs, by not deigning the representatives of the citizens. Natasha Micic to sit in this assembly and hear our remarks. I don't know if there's anything more elementary than that. I think it's in your... Besides, if we are already talking about respecting the Rules of Procedure, it is your responsibility to allow this assembly to work legally and to debate legally. It's something that's most basic. I suggest you give a break until it is possible for MPs to discuss it face-to-face with Natasa Micic, discuss its resolution and make remarks, so that she can respond to these remarks. So, I suggest you take a break until Natasha Micic arrives in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33541	Article 94, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when he determines the lack of quorum at the meeting of the National Assembly, until the quorum is provided: "The second position: "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion"; the third position - "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if the National Assembly concludes; and the fourth position - "The President of the National Assembly will inform the MPs of the continuation of the session. "So, he wanted the president of the DSS parliamentary group to call for Article 94, paragraph 3, and to ask the National Assembly to determine whether there are conditions for working if there is quorum and the National Assembly President Natasa Micic is not present at the session. I'm asking you to make a statement on the interruption of the National Assembly session. [[Louds from the O.R.: No interruption, but a break.]] I have read to you in which cases, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly may decide to interrupt the session of the National Assembly. If we want to determine that the conduct of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not good, then we should stick to it. The chairman has no reason to pause at a quorum session, where there are no legislators and no business provisions on which I can vote on a break. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can vote on the interruption. People's MPs Zeljko Tomic and Dejan Mihajlov violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, obtaining. You have ways to address the Assembly and make a proposal by the Rules of Procedure, if we want respect and only respect. So, are you giving up the motion to interrupt the session? You want a word with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33542	As long as you don't start with a class elder or act like a prison manager. It would be even worse if you went to that stage...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33543	National MP, the fact that we have so far established that it is my obligation to know the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, something that I am fulfilling, and that it is your obligation to know the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, something you do not meet, does not give you the right to express any qualifications and insults to the speaker of the National Assembly. I warn you, if you wish to formulate a proposal, to formulate it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33544	We ask you to take a break and we demand that you take a break until Natasa Micic comes to the hall, that you allow the MPs who have objections to the work of Natasa Micic, to present these remarks in her presence, that it is not that she has not heard, that it is not that we are not gentlemen because we are talking about a lady who is not present. So, to allow a debate to be held in this assembly, such as a debate on the resolution of the President of Parliament, to enable us to conduct a gentlemen's debate and thus protect the integrity of the President of the Assembly himself, whose resolution here is being discussed, and the integrity of the Assembly that you are currently chairing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33545	For now, MP Dejan Mihajlov and I are having a gentlemen's debate and we are acting on the Rules of Procedure. Your request for a break has been accepted, there's no reason for a break. The Assembly has working conditions and continues to work on the agenda. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33546	His Holiness Patriarch, Serbian Mr. Paule, said only a few years ago that no chair is more important than the fate of the people. On Tuesday, October 14th, we saw that Mrs. Micic's chair was more important than all of us. Three elevators weren't enough to get her to the session room. Nine o'clock, she didn't answer her own call to the session. I don't think that's recorded in Serbia's parliamentary practice. There wasn't a lot of them. There is no more counterfeit majority, and there was no majority when the lady was elected president of this assembly, so she voted in public for herself. Then I understood why he was against religion in elementary schools, but I realized he was also against civic education. In the days behind us, the DSS MP club expected that Mrs. Micic would be encouraged by multiple violations of the Constitution and the law and resign. But she still sits on this chair, still wants to chair, give and take a word. The most drastic treading of the Constitution was carried out by seducing the war in Serbia on March 12th, which was called an emergency! The most drastic violation of the Constitution was carried out by seducing war! It has been called an emergency and violation of the Emergency Measures Act since 28 March 1991. So, she did not respect the constitution declared on September 28th 1990, whose declaration was attended by her party's predecessor, Ante Markovic, and broke a scuffle with Mr Milosevic. Since he's from the pleasure area, I'm pretty sure what kind of symbolism he's got is broken cakes. I'm under the impression that some domination, so if you'd be kind enough to distract them. (President: I ask the MPs to, given that the debate is being held on whether or not the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are being applied and respected, that then sitting in parliamentary benches you respect these same provisions and that with respect and silence we listen to the speaker until the end of his presentation. ) Serbia's constitution stipulates that the state of emergency can only be seduced on the part of the territory, and is listed throughout the territory. The panic obviously led to that. We learned from talks with state security officials that day that state officials were looking for a large number of armored vehicles, so they were struggling to explain to them that there are not as many armored vehicles in Serbia as their fears. Measures have been taken from South American military dictatorships! Were you aware of that? Please, the Emergency Measures Act has been violated, a step further, "war measures have been introduced," it is allowed for police to arrest "without a court ruling" and "to retain". It's allowed for "to listen" and "to control surveillance without a court order". These are Fascist Police methods and you need to know that. What does that have to do with the Charter of Human Rights, which was adopted? What values do you defend? Which Europe should you lead us to? Don't throw it away like that. You could scare me. The press censorship was seduced so it wouldn't be written about the state of emergency. In the end, there are only read measures here in the Assembly of the "dangerous orders" of the state of emergency, and the Assembly has not confirmed them. I think what Mrs. Micic has done can be translated into the language of the Criminal Law and that if there is justice, it will answer. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, Prime Minister, said on April 22nd that the state had not been threatened at all. Then why is the state of emergency being seduced? His statement was given by the local and foreign press. I repeat, he said that the state has not been threatened for a moment, and that measures are only being introduced to ensure mechanisms for police and investigative authorities to do their job better in investigating the murder of the Prime Minister. Therefore, one position has been given to the president of the state, the acting president and the president of this assembly, and the other by the Prime Minister. Then what are the values of the dam? You know, when a suspect is banned from having the right to an attorney, then it means that he becomes an object of procedure and that a court case is turned into a procedure in which he is brought into a position to co-operate with the court on his own conviction and to open up the possibility of a process being installed. So don't throw it away if you don't know anything about it. I mean, there are some among you who read only the restaurant menu of this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33547	National MP, with the repeated fact that the debate on trust implies a wide argument, please also focus your exposure on the subject, especially not to engage in dialogue with MPs who are also warned not to earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33548	What I'm saying is that they're in violation of your authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33549	People's MP, for your concern of my authority, I sincerely thank you, but I assure you, you have no reason to worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33550	I'm a gentleman. Yesterday, Mrs. Micic said she is sitting in this parliament a red-and-black coalition. So there are parties that, according to their program and their name, have red for symbol, but they seem to be sitting fascists. Why does Mrs. Micic chair a parliament where fascists sit? It is the only president of parliament in Europe who holds the presidency of the assembly he claims to have fascists sitting in it. On the other hand, the president of her party says more businessmen control MPs than some parties. Isn't that why the elections are called immediately? Why does he chair the assembly when her president says that more businessmen control MPs? In addition, Mrs Micic has been comparing MPs with herself for a long time. If someone is similar, close by attitude, then it's acceptable, and if it's not, it's suspicious. He resents people for their political views. As far as I am aware, all parties registered in this House are in the Ministry of Justice and none are prohibited by the Constitutional Court. If there's a black coalition sitting here, why didn't she apply to ban a party? It is hypocritical to claim that fascists are sitting, not to file a request to ban a party, and therefore I think that it should resign, that the problems of this society are above the relations of political forces and that the resignation is a moral act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33551	The word has been made by MP Dragan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mrs. Comic, if you are a legalist, I ask you to interrupt this session. Article 94(3) says the one discussed should be here. However, as Natasa Micic does not want to listen to the discussion about her, and there is another registered speaker from the Party of Serbian Unity, she will not speak unless Mrs Natasa Micic comes to the hall, but I propose tomorrow to the police, who will be at the rally, to take a coup, to enter all institutions, because the number of generals on the Hague list is the highest responsibility the government of the Republic of Serbia and individuals from the government, because they invented mass graves in Belgrade, the ice-colders and they are the biggest culprits. They don't have most. There are three people in this country. This country cannot be ruled by three people, there is no more national will in this House. DOS doesn't have a majority. Officers, I beg you, enter all institutions tomorrow, carry out a coup, call the army and save Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33553	People's MP, of all the freedom of speech that can be heard for a pay phone, this is the freest and most diverse freedom of speech and information to citizens and citizens of Serbia - the MP cannot be called to account, and apparently neither responsible for what he says about the National Assembly's pay phone. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33554	Dear colleagues, very short. I would ask you, although I am convinced that you are absolutely right to insist that the President of the Assembly be in the O.R. when we talk about the reasons for its resolution, a team before it is really uncertain whether Mrs. Micicic will be resolved or not, so all those remarks that MPs make are well-intentioned. Anyone can be corrected, anyone can understand that he was wrong and that in the future, if he does that job, he does it in a way that is in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. Also, the current chairman must know that he can initiate the motion for his resolution, because as we have elected the president we have also elected vice presidents and we do not see any significant difference between the vice president who runs the session and the president of the National Assembly, except in the gesture. So a little tolerance is really necessary. The very fact that Mrs. Micic did not allow us to come to the session speaks in favour of the justification for her resolution. So from day to day the arguments are getting stronger. However, I did not hear that the chairman at the beginning of the session stated that Mrs Micic had justified, as a MP, her absence from today's session. We can assume that today, as yesterday, Mrs Micic will accompany one of the government's members or possibly the Prime Minister, which will further prove to us what we have claimed to be solely in the function of the Government and therefore put Parliament in a position of subjugation to the government, instead of being vice versa, as is the Constitution and envisaged. We, ladies and gentlemen, listened almost half an hour yesterday to the Prime Minister who gave his farewell speech here. I don't know on what basis. The agenda item is not some draft law initiated by the government, a MP or a group of MPs, so that the government is interested. This item of the agenda is exclusively about Parliament, exclusively about relationships, and there is nothing the government can do to interfere. What will the Prime Minister tell us about whether or not the president of the National Assembly responds to the MPs? We can place whoever we want as president of the National Assembly if we have a majority, as we can solve everyone at this table, if we have a majority, something else was at stake. There was an action to arrest Mr Mladic in Kosutnjak about five hours and probably Mr. Zivkovic expected to hear favourable results and that he would have the opportunity to say - we arrested General Mladic. Fortunately, he didn't, and we were throwing him a bench question -- and who's going to arrest General Lazarevic and how is he going to arrest General Lukic now?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33555	National MP Bojan Pajtic, as president of the Parliamentary Group or according to the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33556	I appeal to the provision of the Rules of Procedure, which regulates order at the session of the National Assembly and the obligation to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. For this speaker, some words that fall under the qualification of the most serious crimes in each legislation are spoken. As MPs, we must be aware of our obligations, both for the legal system and for the state of the public. A criminal act of public harassment has also been committed, a criminal offence has been committed to calling for the collapse of the constitutional order and, regardless of how much our disagreements are, it is unacceptable to use a assembly speaker to cause civil war in Serbia. An open call from the head of a parliamentary group to a coup, which was made immediately before that and before the media, and later in a direct transmission from the assembly speaker, is an invitation to civil war and resembles the same situation we had, when red berets blocked the highway to Belgrade and when some politicians also supported an explicit or implicitly such rebellion. The result was the murder of the prime minister on March 12th this year. I'm asking the Administrative Board to find a way to sanction this behavior based on the Rules of Procedure. As MPs, we have immunity, but we have no right to bring down, not just the institutions of the system, but our own country where we are. Calling for violence, calling for civil war obliges all of us MPs and oppositions and positions to respect, above all, what are the fundamental constitutional principles in each country, which is respect for order and peace, public dissent and non-interruption of constitutional order. In this respect, I ask the chairperson to leave to the Management Board the definition of further disciplinary measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33557	National MP Dragan Markovic, a replica of the presentation of MP Bojan Pajtic, who addressed the National Assembly according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33558	Ladies and gentlemen, apparently Mr. Pitiæ is in great fear for all the acts that the DOS did, but what I said about this pay phone, it's not an invitation to civil war. What I said about this pay phone is much easier than you set fire to a congregation that Hitler didn't even tear down, set on fire to TV on October 5th, etc. Since even now you don't want to call the election, and you don't have a majority in this House, it's turned out, you can't fight in your chest as you have support, as the people wanted it to be. You do not have a national will, you do not have 126, it proved at the last vote when the government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a number of agenda points, and the points were rejected by MPs who think well of this Serbia. How to save the sale of well-being enterprises and crime in Serbia that you and your government are selling only well-being factories, you have sold two tobacco factories that have a market in Serbia, you have sold to an American who will determine that the price of cigarettes is the same as "Marlboro" in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, etc. How do we stop people from losing their jobs in Serbia anymore, when you don't respect anything. You only apply the law when you need it, and when you don't need the law, then you've applied most of it to 15 days ago, and you don't have most of it today. How do we stop only Serbs going to The Hague, those who had to defend the Serb people, and on the other hand, Ceku was arrested yesterday, and tonight he was released by Mr Pajtic, and you're asking that all those who had a commanding role go to The Hague. Was there anyone, Mr. Pititic, when the sharps attacked the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, who was allowed not to defend those Serbs? Mr. Pajtic, you have invented more mass graves in Belgrade than there are Orthodox cemeteries on the territory of the municipality of Belgrade. That's a shame, Mr. Pititice. What did your government do to help the people in Serbia? Here, Mr. Pajtic, you stole votes, it has been proven that you stole, that Mrs. Neda Arneric was in Turkey at sea, that she was not present, Mr. Rafaelovic said - I was not there! In this country, something must work, something must stop you from stealing or robbing the Serbian people!- I'm sorry. You understand, I don't say this as a politician, I speak as a family man and as a private entrepreneur who currently has 100 people who are employed by the company. The people of Serbia think so. Well, how come General Lazarevic is someone who goes to The Hague, how come General Lukic is someone who goes to The Hague? Well, you just use people for one use and then dump them. Is that your obligation -- the $79 million you took in the election campaign, and that's what Madeleine Albright said in that movie, "B92," and now you're doing business, you need Serbs to deliver to The Hague tribunal. Where's the money, Mr. Pitch?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33559	Member of the People's Parliament... (The President and People's MP at the pay phone speak at the same time.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33560	.... Where's $79 million, who'd you give it to? The people of Serbia?...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33561	Three minutes and 30 seconds...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33562	.... but you bought all the cars, you were blind, you didn't have one jeans, you only had one, and today you have all two, three cars...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33563	.... People's MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33564	.... houses, apartments, shame on you...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33565	.... You've been warned...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33566	.... Only the police can take a quiet path to...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33567	.... I give you my first warning for disrespect of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have exceeded your time...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33568	.... And once again, I ask the citizens of Serbia - I never call for war and bloodshed, a peaceful police route to enter and (the microphone is off)...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33569	People's MP, you've been warned of violating the rules of the Rules of Procedure in address during the replica. For the previous address to the National Assembly, it is hardly possible to give notice, but the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly cannot predict that one of the MPs will go out for a payphone and freedom of speech to interpret so that he can call for a coup. The only measure that would be appropriate is the measure set out in Article 104, paragraph 2 of the National Assembly session. I ask the Administrative Board to declare that measure. People's MPs who feel that freedom of speech is to call for a coup, to call on the forces of the police and the military to enter the institutions of the state, therefore, these MPs who think it is freedom of speech, that it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that it is not a fundamental violation of the principle of common sense in politics, are not MPs who will be allowed to call on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly, because either you have not read or understood them or you will never understand them. I'm asking the Management Board to schedule a session. The president of the parliamentary group, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33570	As head of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think it's high time that all of us, as responsible representatives of the citizens, thought a little bit about how we behave and what messages we send from this pay phone. It is undeniably the right of every MP to criticise, to criticise sharply, to criticise unspeakably, that never or sometimes that criticism is not fully in line with the real state of affairs, but calling for violence and destruction in parliament cannot be something that can be tolerated. We had a similar destruction several days ago, when this parliament rejected the draft legislation concerning the fate of tens of thousands of our citizens: the railway law, which is a prerequisite for the situation of thousands of railway workers; the energy law, which is a prerequisite for the restructuring of NIS and EPS, as systems that employ tens of thousands of citizens; the law on ecology, which is extremely significant for Panchevo, for Novi Sad, for all those cities that are ecologically endangered; the law on changes and additions to the Law on Broadcasting, for which someone incorrectly and maliciously said that he had proposed a new contract in favour of RTS. On the contrary, he only rerouted funds that had been channelled through income tax so far into the republican budget, but rerouted it to RTS. If anyone thinks that the language of aggression and the language of hate can scare us, he's wrong. In this assembly both on this side and on that side, the MPs who were arrested, who had been persecuted, who had been expelled from work, who had not gone into political parties for the sake of the situation, but had entered the political parties just to be expelled, just to be arrested, and precisely to keep people from full moral, personal and professional integrity until the end. If someone claims that the call for the collapse of constitutional order and civil war is beneficial to one's family, they probably claimed it in 1999, when we were bombed, when I had a wife in a different state, when many of my fellow MPs had little children, were hiding with little children from the bombing. These are the people who caused what was the greatest monster for the Serbian people -- the bombing of Serbia at the end of the JJ century. We don't think it's in the interest of our families, we don't think violence is in the interest of anyone, we don't resort to violence. What the president of the assembly said as a measure that introduced the state of emergency after 12 March, and which is often objected to as an objection to its work, was the only possible reaction to the situation in which the prime minister was killed in a European country. There is no European country that would act in a different way. Before that, you have various conspiracys, various newspaper articles, various protests by special units and paramilitary formations. You have those who, united in criminal intent to bring down this regime, tried not only to come to the prime minister's head, but also to many other officials of today's regime. The only way and the only answer that was in line with the Constitution at that time was by seducing the state of emergency. We have in this assembly a bizarre coalition that broke the laws, which broke records on which it had no objections, had one and was legitimate to vote against them, but voted against the minutes that contained the vote on customs law, the Law on Insurance for Unemployment, the Law on Employment Assistance, the laws on which they themselves voted. It is the destruction of Parliament, and this destruction must not be just an invitation to brutal violence. The destruction is the destruction of everything that is in the interest of Serbian citizens and is in the interest of tens of thousands of RTS employees, in Novi Sad TV, in the EPS, in NIS, in railways. It's something that's in complete coincidence with calls for brutal violence. What is the sin of Natasha Micic, and why is the vote of mistrust sought by Natasha Micic? The sin of Natasa Micic, the first and biggest, is that this Assembly was eight times more productive than the Assembly in the previous meeting, which has worked eight times more days than in the previous assembly and which has passed eight times more laws than in the previous parliament. It is something that causes both anger and anger and a completely understandable frustration between failed MPs and unsuccessful political parties who, either in the previous session, were unable to work and more or those who were unable to fully assume responsibility for what we have committed to Serbian citizens as a coalition. Three times in the previous term, it is only for the sake of illustration of those who compare Natasa Micic with Dragan Tomic as Parliament Speaker, three times the debate on the resolution of Parliament Speaker Dragan Tomic and has never been put on the agenda. It was first proposed in 1995 by 66 MPs, the second time in 1997 by 30 MPs and the third time in 2000 by 45 MPs. Natasa Micic showed her personal, professional integrity by putting the agenda on the agenda and insisting that it be discussed and that, in the end, the National Assembly declares it. What is a civilization problem is the difficulties of us Balkans to see a woman in the place of any high political official in the country. Look and compare the number of women and the number of men in high political functions and you will see how dramatic the proportion is. Those few women he's got, they're really bothering us. We are deeply disturbed that Natasa Micic gives some warning, and according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, she is obliged to take care of the order and to care for the maintenance of the dignity of this National Assembly. The mistake would have been Natasha Micic if she had been passive and allowed to swear, spit, pour water, fight, all of what we had had the chance to see in the past two and a half years. How else can a lady act, rather than try to introduce some elemental order and try to make the National Assembly an institution that looks as much like modern European parliaments as possible. What is the position of Natasha Micic, under the Constitution, is the position of acting president of the Republic. It's totally undeniable. What we can say and what we can estimate is that Natasa Micic acted minimally in line with the powers that the Constitution requires. She didn't do anything that would represent, based on the Constitution, any troublesome situation. As for those who had the opportunity to go abroad, I also mean MPs of the opposition who were in the Council of Europe and in some other international institutions could see that Natasa Micic enjoyed incomparably greater respect abroad than in some parliamentary benches of opposition MPs in this National Assembly. Comments on the abolition of TV transmissions were also placed on the soul of Natasa Micic, although we in this Assembly passed the Law on Broadcasting, which guaranteed independence to RTS, as a public service. It is not unusual that those who think that Natasa Micic can order and should order RTS, afterwards, also vote to remove from the agenda changes and additions to the Law on Broadcasting, which now provide public service independence and RTS independence and the sovereign right of the RTS Management Board to assess what is in line with their programme concept and what is in line with the economic interest of RTS. It is perfectly understandable that such people, who have to this extent the totalitarian vision of state television as a machine that must at all costs follow orders and commands of people from the state summit, that such people vote to remove this law and not make it impossible in any way and for future independence of RTS, probably hoping for some authorities after the next parliamentary elections and seeking to secure the position of RTS only as boxes that directly advertise current state officials. A difficult task came to Natasa Micic in this parliament when she came to him in 2000 and took over as president of this parliament. Practically, we only found the building. We haven't found an institution, we've found a building that's only held a session of the Assembly for three days. All we found was a shell that had no essence. Of course, it was difficult to make such a shell an institution that would be equal to European parliaments. It's gonna take a long time, not to fool ourselves, with us being the way we are, I'm talking about all of us. I don't think we've had enough, not enough power, not enough opposition, to take action to make this Parliament a real parliament. It is bizarre and incomprehensible and totally unacceptable in every modern state that, for example, the opposition considers that it is the only one that has "rights", and only that MPs have "obligations", as if MPs do not receive salaries, as if the opposition MPs do not have the same income in financial terms, as if they do not have all the privileges as the MPs do. Well, what's the difference between MPs and what's the difference between opposition MPs? I've spoken to some of the OSCE parliamentarians. They're amazed by the fact that the opposition didn't enter the session at all, because it's our obligation to give a quorum to parliament. What does that mean? The opposition MPs didn't raise any fees, they didn't raise their logs? What does it have to do with the current majority supporting the executive power at what time, if all MPs are the same according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33571	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33572	I'll use the next 10 minutes. Does this mean that if you win the election, that those who won the election should be punished for winning the election, and someone who lost the election has all the privileges and has no obligation, and that is a completely absurd and completely pointless reasoning. So, the the thesis that we had in this Parliament, that it could obstruct the work of the Assembly, that it could be attacked to the unconscious president of the Assembly, that it could be called to civil war, where it was completely allowed to water itself and fight in parliament in the name of the alleged defence of democracy, in the name of the alleged defence of the Rules of Procedure, is something that was not seen in either English or German, nor in the Dutch, or in any Parliament in Europe, and certainly is not seen in the world. The position of the opposition, which believes it should not give a quorum for the vote as well, is nothing more than the collapse of the parliament's institution. What does that mean? If we say that we are all working in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, are these 150 laws passed by this assembly only by positional laws, are these laws that this National Assembly supported only by laws in the interest of those citizens who voted for us or are laws in the interest of all citizens of this Serbia? Everyone has the right to submit an amendment. Many amendments to the opposition were accepted here. Those amendments to the opposition that were not accepted were most often not for acceptance. Very often these amendments were insolent in character. We didn't accept such amendments. We regret that we are unable to accept everything, but at least the president of the National Assembly could be responsible for all of this. The president of the National Assembly, to call on what we have often heard of this speaker, is not the first among the equal. It is absolutely not the first among the equals, nor its business position, nor its constitutional position. The constitution makes it very clear that in the event that the President of the Republic cannot perform that duty, the President of the Assembly is acting as President of the Republic, it absolutely does not mean equality between the President of the Assembly and the equality of other MPs. The speaker of the assembly is someone who represents the Assembly, is someone who is obliged to maintain the dignity of the Assembly, maintain peace and order in the Assembly and try to comply with his powers to make a respectable investment from the Assembly. The difficult situation we have encountered in this House is not only the result of the bad Rules of Procedure, as a result of what we had on the side of the opposition parties as a constant destruction of the parliamentary process, but it is the consequences and behaviour of those who, together with us in 2000, went to elections - but they soon forgot that going to elections and entering some government implies and absolute responsibility for the state of parliament, in the government, in the military, at the level of the federal state, at the local, republican and federal level, power cannot be a privilege, but first of all, power is one big obligation. As far as this debate is concerned, which is why this debate. This debate, we have seen in the current course, has been very often, above all, focused on the pre-election campaign of a political party, which is completely legitimate. We knew that this debate would end up looking like this, that opposition parties would attack each other, that there would be different calls for different riots. It's completely legitimate. We didn't think there'd be a stenogram reading, but that was happening, too. In any case, it is all legitimate, parliamentary, democratic behaviour and what we have seen from the party's representative who is proposing this item of the agenda is, in this sense, something that represents a step forward and I hope that we as Parliament in this sense and in the future will act and we will mutually respect each other, exchange arguments and fully legitimately criticise each other. Of course, we'll criticise the opposition MPs, too. Very often there is unprincipled behaviour, but we must take into account the responsibility that we all have as MPs, above all in front of the citizens of Serbia, the responsibility that we cannot really call for hatred from this pay phone. It is truly unacceptable to call on violence, to speak in the language of rematchism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33573	The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, who is an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33574	I signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33575	The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, the replica and the right to replica on the same basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33576	Mr. Pajtic, let's clear up what you're saying these days in the media -- that this debate is led to Mrs. Natasa Micic's initiative, that's not true. The debate on the resolution of the president of the National Assembly is led to the initiative of a group of MPs, namely the SRS parliamentary groups and one part of the SPS and SNS MPs. It's not about Mr. Pajtic or any bizarre coalition, and it's not about any coalition here, it's about the same opinion, and that on the day we tabled this proposal, we consulted most of the MPs in this National Assembly, believe that they asked us in the hallway why we applied, why we didn't bring them to sign. You said this proposal meant frustration for incompetent MPs. Mr. Pajtic, the frustration of the incompetent MPs yesterday showed the president of the National Assembly, Ms. Natasa Micic, on his case here, to the public of Serbia and to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33577	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. A proposal by the Rules of Procedure, or a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Replica. The basis for the replica, mentioning in the presentation of MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33578	Just a few things, Mr Pajtic: First of all, you have been talking for a week about the request of MPs in this assembly to put on the agenda the trust of Natasa Micic will not come to the agenda because the parliamentary majority will not allow it by their vote. You've been saying that for a week. When you didn't provide it, then it was too loud here and Natasa Micic accepted it because she saw it coming on the agenda. That's not controversial. It's not a dispute. I'm saying this because you said the question of trust was raised three times by Dragan Tomic, so it didn't come to the agenda. We had a stable parliamentary majority. That's the difference between you and me. It was a stable parliamentary majority that provided for something to be put on the agenda by voting. So that's one thing. Secondly, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure of the Old and New, and that is the contribution of democracy. Then, at that time, the Rules of Procedure, undemocraticly, as you say, every MP in this Serbian assembly had the right to speak for up to 10 minutes. Now any MP can speak for one minute. It's the development of democracy and the democratic relations you're talking about here today. Thirdly, it is not, and Mrs Radeti - not part of the parliamentary group, but the entire SPS parliamentary group, including those MPs who belong to the SPS, who were left behind thanks to Natasa Micic, which is why we are asking for the shift of Natasha Micic, because only thanks to her intrinsicity of the SPS was she left without those seven MPs, because it was not the Constitutional Court's decision at the time, but only her prolongation not to get it on the agenda, so that those parliamentary mandates would not return. According to the law, when the status of party member is lost, it remains without a mandate. It's before the Constitutional Court's decision, I don't speak after the decision, it's something else. We respect the Constitutional Court's decision, so we disagree. In the end, about RTS. It is true that the law states that public service should be formed, but no public service is formed. It didn't work out the bill as you said it should be paid to watch TV. No board of directors was created, no company was created, none of it worked, and the RTS that is still funded from the budget, without the decision of this assembly to finance itself from the budget. And as it is financed from the budget, it is required to respect the decisions of whoever is funding it, and is financed by this assembly. Whether she put it in the budget or when there's a budget rebalance here, that's another question, but it's quite certain that every month those in the budget get money and they're still RTS, they're not a broadcasting company. I'm asking that we be completely honest here and let's be honest with the public, not talk about what needs to be and what's in the law that's not being implemented. The congregation works as effectively as it does. It can work for 170 days and achieve nothing, and it can work for 17 days, and it can pass many laws. You have been boycotting this parliament for two years as a Democratic Party, regularly receiving salaries and diaries and no one has resented it. Now I don't blame you, your decision was that way and you decided...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33579	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33580	I'm sorry, another sentence at the end -- you can't take this as a relationship to women, ladies, ladies, as you will. The president of the assembly should be like Mrs. Comic, tolerant, nice, correct, even when you are punished, that you are pleased, not to hysterate from the pay phone of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33581	People's MP, I have one tolerated warning that you do not exceed the time available to you in the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, we cross arguments here, and there are those, however, few, who defend Mrs. Micic and think she can still lead this assembly. There are more of us, and that's what we've seen from the debate, and at the end of the debate, we're going to have to sum up in one final word to draw the line and see what we've come up with, but it's not nice to impute here something that doesn't stand. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister, and today, the head of the DOS Parliament's tower, has said one lie. That's why, as a proponent, I have to react, and it goes to the opposition's soul, which is supposed to be destructive, which slows down reforms, laws that don't do anything, but only receives wages. Whoever was watching TV while there were, and here they are now, I don't know in what magical way the president of the Assembly provided it, it could be seen who was working in this Parliament, and whoever was reading the paper is chewing gum, eating candy and snacks. There are no MPs in this assembly who have worked more than the SRS parliamentary group. Our right, as MPs who have remained in opposition, is to try in every way to correct what the Government is proposing, and what we consider to be at the expense of citizens and to vote against it. We would never have arranged and passed the Telecommunications Act like you did, never such a labour law, never, never, God forbid, the Law on Lustration, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law, etc. There is also talk here of a major contribution to the soon-to-be parliamentary majority of DOS and, reportedly, the government, and that was said yesterday by the Prime Minister. Well, we've allowed you to discuss it. Please, you've forgotten it looks like 13 years of parliamentaryism here. Do you remember how he fell in 1993? Tomislav Nikolic had his exposés in the Assembly for days and days, until in the end Slobodan Milosevic realized that the government had gone to hell, overlapped the book and called for extraordinary parliamentary elections. He had a man hearing about democracy much more than you have today. You will not understand that this government has already fallen, that it has no support from Parliament, that it can no longer pass these reform laws, which you call it, and that there is no other choice but to call parliamentary elections. You forgot how many amendments you submitted in 1994 to the Law on Local Self-Government, two thousand and something, and normally the law was withdrawn from the procedure. It was your parliamentary right, opposition, no one questioned you. The rest is recorded as parliamentary history. Please, there were 176 of you here. You were absolutely able to work without any of us from the opposition showing up in parliament. Let it go. You're getting paid. Here you all receive salaries, and those who work elsewhere receive a pay gap, and they're not some pay. Why don't you tell people it's 24,000, why don't you say, why don't you say he dropped 8,000 and that's our salary?- I'm sorry. We work from morning till tomorrow, we work here in Parliament, make us work on Saturdays and Sundays until midnight to submit amendments to the draft laws that you deliver to us late. These people, who live in the interior and yours and those of the opposition, have certainly been out of their families and out of their homes for two hundred days, although many work in some very responsible jobs. There are doctors who have to leave their patients and come here to work. For what? Because you are unable to propose a law that is acceptable. When we warn you on time, you are not ready to correct yourself. Silina, there are many of you, you could have brought in any law you wanted at the beginning. Then you saw that you were gone, then you knocked down the work quorum, then you reduced the number of MPs needed to sit here to discuss the bill's proposals. You're whining about the opposition that won't come to Parliament. We don't have to come and listen to that. You don't need our votes to vote those laws. We're interested in sitting here today because we want to pass our proposal, because we think we're right. It's your interest, of course, to sit here and not let our proposal pass. That's perfectly normal. So please don't talk about us being destructive, being retrograded. If your retrograde is synonym for radical, then there's something wrong with your education. Please, Parliament is something that must be kept in democratic society as a pupil of the eye. If we're not all frames to do it, then we're absolutely out of help. Anyone can come to us from the white world and tell us whatever they want, and all we can do is bend down, kneel down, bow down, bow down, and do what we're not asked to do. I don't think it's the interest of this people. It's not the interest of this country. This debate is not addressed to the address of Natasa Micic as Natasa Micic, a graduate lawyer from Užica. She doesn't interest us like that at all. And if there was a robot doing that job, we'd have to look back at that robot's program and ask it to be fixed, because it can't work that way. So we must preserve the institution of the President of the Assembly and the President and Parliament themselves. That's why we've only been looking for this debate, because we think it's in the interest of a democratic society, which we've been building for years and who we're trying for, that can always be perfected and that we're in charge of perfecting. Otherwise, there's no reason for us to sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33583	The word has been made by MP Bojan Pajtic, a replica to the presentation of Gordana Pop-Lazic's folk message.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33584	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Pop-Lazic, when I spoke of the bizarre coalition, I meant not the SRS, but those who joined the initiative. So, the SRS coalition, the SPS and the DSS in the past few days wouldn't have been so unusual if it hadn't joined the G17 plus, let's say, which until a few months ago was in the coalition, was in power at different levels, in the federal government, in the National Bank, in the Republic Government until a month and two days ago. That's what surprises us. So that makes the coalition bizarre. Otherwise, a coalition of radicals, the DSS and the SPS would also be software. I wasn't thinking about you. In that sense, I apologize, if that's how you interpreted my exposure. So, first of all, it relates to G17 plus, who joined that group. As for the MPs, the number of MPs who support Ms. Micic. It was the motion of MPs, when we proposed MPs to present, that we were guided by the logic that we didn't want any moment to think that we wanted to delay this debate. We could have suggested 60-70 MPs to use all that time, and that would have been over five hours that DOS has in that debate. I think it's perfectly legitimate and I agree with you that it's legitimate to exchange arguments during the debate, but I don't think it would be legitimate to delay the debate in that direction. We don't want to do it in any way. We want to show very quickly whether what the President of this Parliament has or does not have support among MPs. As far as working in Parliament is concerned, I disagree, committee work is a dominant part of parliamentary work. This is where your client doesn't participate. It's not the only work of debate in the Assembly. The debate in the Assembly is in a political and promotional sense only interesting, but the work on the law itself takes place at the proposing level, after which at the level of the committee and afterwards, primarily when voting on amendments and legislation. Therefore, the debate itself is mainly used to promote a certain law or to promote a political party that is against the law, and at least it is a parliamentary work. You, unfortunately, do not participate in any committee, would make a significant contribution and would indeed be working in the National Assembly. As for putting it on the agenda - we were all witnesses that the president of the Assembly asked for this to be put on the agenda, unlike Dragan Tomic. Dragan Tomic never put it on the agenda. And it is not a question of the majority or minority, but of the elementary manners and the elemental, civilised behavior, that when there is a proposal for some MPs, you are sure of your parliamentary majority, then it depends on the elemental culture whether you put it on the agenda or not. There are no sanctions if it is not put on the agenda, but Natasa Micic, as the first point, put her decision on the agenda and it is public knowledge. It wasn't a vote on those points. Therefore, proposals have also been withdrawn to remove these points from the agenda at the president's request, a request to discuss her trust and within the coalition there is a mood for some parties to discuss this trust and that is the full truth. (President: three minutes. We should not speculate with that. As for the debate before this parliament and the behaviour of Natasha Micic in disciplining some MPs, ensuring order, I must stress that this is actually the first time and the first completely civilized debate, except for some calls for civil war, which we have had in this House. So far, Mrs. Micic has faced watering, fighting in Parliament, cursing, insulting, calling animal epithet, and we all know that very well. It was a level that was absolutely below each level and I think what Natasa Micic applied to meet her constitutional and business obligations was a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33585	One notice that I owe, under Article 84(2). The Rules of Procedure, and because of the information presented in the presentations of MP Bojan Pajtic and Gordana Pop-Lazic, it is the number of MPs who have presentations, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Citizens and citizens of Serbia who are watching will probably not understand, but we will soon explain what this is about. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the order of MPs in the principle debate is determined on the basis of the lists handed over by the parliamentary groups and it is an obligation to go from the smallest to the greatest, but the order to be one MP -- for, one MP -- against, as long as there are such MPs, which are "for" or "against". The DSS parliamentary group handed over its list and circled that it is against the resolution of National Assembly President Natasa Micic. It's a matter that, the secretary of the National Assembly and myself, we have to take care of as to the document that was submitted. We assumed they were against the President of the Assembly, but the list must be made as MP groups have declared that they are "for" or "against" resolutions. This is why in this first part you have, where he speaks in order of the MPs of the DSS group, he should have spoken to an MP who is against the resolution of the National Assembly of Natasa Micic, but I do not have the authority to do so, if there is official paper in the documentation where they have circled against. It's an explanation for both of you to mention order. It's in your statement, you don't report to the MPs you're defending and against your resolution, you don't report in the debate, this is according to the Rules of Procedure. MP Djura Popovic. National MP Sredoje Mihajlov, the basis for the replica, mentioning G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33586	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, is that I have been independent for three months, which you have forgotten, and now I remind you. It is mentioned that G17 plus is in the coalition. G17 plus just condemned the way the governor was elected, because you know what it looked like. I think that's where the Rules of Procedure got hurt. I voted for the governor's election at the time because I thought he should be elected governor, and now I think it is, and the great insult that this assembly has done to the governor by choosing her in this way. I think Mrs. President made a mistake because she didn't repeat the election. Just because of that scandal that happened that day, I didn't know about that whole rasmusmonyade. When I found out, I saw it was never called a real name. Gentlemen, you know what happened, among other things, to remind you, when you mentioned that coalition. Look at what it looked like: those who said they saw what they saw, Mr. Rafaelovic who said he wasn't there, you turned out to be bad guys, and the good guys and the ones you praised, are the ones who threw the cards, who voted for the others who weren't there, and that's what I want to turn to the people of Serbia and the voters, to see who was convicted as bad at that whole thing. We're not with anyone in the coalition, but we wanted to introduce order, just because we didn't want to mess up this congregation, but to have order in it, we reacted to it because we didn't like it. We believe that it is something that cannot be in the image of this congregation. Gentlemen, let me remind you. You do not wonder at all, does no one's conscience work, to ask ourselves - why is there no Mrs Arneric among us? Don't you deserve to apologize to her, tell her we weren't all for it... (President: I ask the People's MPs not to receive and to allow the speaker to complete the presentation. I've been an MP for 11 years, and eight years I've been opposition, and if it hadn't been for such people as Sredoja, there wouldn't have been a lot of you in this room, but I've never experienced what I've experienced since the SPS. Believe me, they've always let me say and I'm surprised that this is how you react. But again, let's go back to Mrs. Neda Arneric and ask ourselves why she's not here, why we haven't apologized to her and why she's lonely. We all have a calm conscience, says Mrs. Micic, she sleeps peacefully. I wouldn't sleep quietly in her place, and I wish there was some order and humanity here as we imagined, and that's the reason, not any coalition, but that's what we can't accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33587	The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic. He's not present. After him, MP Sima Radulovic followed him, Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33588	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, the applicant for the resolution of the President of the National Assembly in the light of this proposal sets out the legal reasons for that resolution. These legal reasons consist, in the opinion of the applicant, that the President of the Assembly, chair of this Parliament, had violated the rules and started with the Rules of Procedure, the Law, and until the Constitution. These legal reasons can be disproved, but I will not deal with this at this time, because it is very successful by the head of Serbia's Civil Union Group, Mirko Rosic, although he is not a lawyer. Therefore, the reasons for the resolution and the request for discharge of the President of the Assembly are in something else. The reasons are not legal, nor motivated to protect the legal order, but are the reasons for purely political nature, which is absolutely the right, as the applicant of the proposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33589	People's MP, excuse me for a moment. I ask the MPs who already refuse to comply with the basic provisions, which are called sitting in the bench, that their possible debates lead outside this hall, expertly or any other debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33590	So, this is the entirely legitimate right of the applicant of the proposal, that purely motivated by political reasons requires the resolution of the President of Parliament, because that act itself in the light of what I just said, that there are no legal reasons, this act itself carries a certain policy. Of course, all this has to do with the presidential elections that have already been called and with parliamentary ones that many in this room wish for. So, the reasons are political, so let's start with whoever's in this House asking for a resolution from the president of the Assembly. Of course, there are first MPs and those who directly joined the proposal in their signatures, as well as those who during this debate show that they enjoy the same status. The mandated representative of the applicant in his first step behind the speaker, explaining the proposal, stressed that the speaker of the assembly comes from a minor party, of course referring to the Civil Union of Serbia. They're different, gentlemen, to measure the size of parties, but we'll talk about it later. However, the fact is that a good part of the attack on Parliament's president stems from that fact and is motivated by the fact that Mrs Natasa Micic is a high-ranking official of the Civil Union of Serbia. When it comes to the applicant, the nominal applicant, such an attitude is quite normal, so you will allow and expect it, because in this House there are no two different options than that political option represented by the motioner and the one represented by the Civil Union of Serbia. I said, of course, I'm glad that we can finally face these arguments in this debate. What is this measure of gentlemen the size of a party? Is the policy that this party is leading? Let's talk about it a little bit. In the not long ago political and parliamentary history of this country, the legislator of this law was well known for his largely in co-operation with those who represented in power some of their extreme views or radicals, if you prefer. Now a few examples of what I'm saying: starting with the threat of rocketling Rome, I think Vienna and other European capitals. It was an extreme with very terrible consequences. To remind ourselves of the introduction of Dolgorukov, the predelegate to the Serbian throne from the direct line of Nemnjević. However, Dolgorukov soon realized that we were shallow pockets, so he left his pretender. These are some of the details that talk about extremes. However, each party has the right to choose its own policy, to shock the electoral body, and possibly profit in some way. It might all be funny if it wasn't dangerous and sad. I'm not saying you made that policy. You've only followed that policy, others have created it, but let's see what the finals of that policy are. The finals of this policy were on 24 March 1999, and the results are unfortunately still visible. This is about the size of the policy and size of the party proposing. The civil union of Serbia -- let's see how big we are now. Serbia's civil union is as big as the big civil idea in Serbia. The question is how terrible this idea could have been in 1991, 1992, and 1993, when only combat calls were echoed in this country, inspired exclusively by the ideology of blood and soil. But time changes, gentlemen. Now these combat calls in Europe sound like boring screaming, and it is undisputed that most Serbian citizens want to go to this particular Europe. Gentlemen, I'll deal with big and small parties a little later than we can see about the election. The first election of 2000. We, along with others in this House, have won and then promised and said that we did not want only to change the government but we want to change Serbia, we want comprehensive reforms, but, gentlemen, it turns out that yet another good part of Serbia is not for reforms. Some of them, no matter what they say and what arguments they make, who have joined those who have always been associated with someone else, but I said that times change and now they are joined by some, have reasoned this way -- that we will come to power ourselves if the good part of Serbia's citizens is still not for reform. Then let's say -- we're going to do a little reform, but this part of the citizens is getting angry, not even a little reform. What are we gonna do? To tolerate a little obstruction in Parliament, to obstruct the law's passing to the unconscious, to let amendments, which completely change the whole law, dissuade them, so that we will show this part of Serbia that we are not the ones who piss you off, we are not the ones who are doing something to you, we are not actually doing anything, and we are also driving. Come on, everybody, get to the polls now, from that position. A civil union at a cost and never again be a parliamentary party with such positions will go to the polls. Now let me go back to the big ones, i.e. One-on-one and small, minor parties. In this House, it seems to me that there is a consensus that local self-government is one of the most important segments of our society, and besides that of us and the practice of Europe, which we seek, is learning. That local self-government should continue to strengthen. In my Nis there is an enormous party in three local congregations, the Assembly of the City of Nis, the National Assembly of Nis and the Assembly of the municipality of Nisa Banja there is no, in letters, no number, no councilman, and the Minor Civil Alliance has 19. Not a single one, Professor Vujinovic, not a single one. So there isn't much that isn't small, and there isn't much that isn't much, and the President of the Assembly is just proof of this claim.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33591	The word has a People's MP Verica Radeta, an authorised representative, a replica to the presentation of the previous speaker on the basis of the party's mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33592	Ladies and gentlemen, the policy of the SRS has always been a peaceful policy and, above all, a patriotic policy. Whether we called for the rocketling of Rome, it may be true, but ladies and gentlemen, we never invited the enemies of the Serb people to bomb Serbia, which was the Civil League of Serbia. The Civil Union of Serbia and Goran Svilanovic, led by the Civil Union of Serbia, led by those forces that wanted to see what happened in Serbia in 99. They were the ones who showed and explained what in Serbia should be dunged. Goran Svilanovic, president of a truly minor party, has also achieved what has been achieved, and other members of the party, have more in office than are party members, precisely because they deserve it in their Western mentors, among those who bombed Serbia and those who do not want Serbia well. The extremes of Goran Svilanovic and the extremes of the Serbian Civil League are certainly higher than any party in Serbia, and they have shown their attitude towards Serbia and their people, by being the first to offer Serbian heads to The Hague tribunal. Goran Svilanovic is ready to offer to The Hague thousands of young men who fought because they were patriots and because they were convinced they should fight in Kosovo in the interest of the Serbian people. All these officers and all these soldiers will be extradited by Goran Svilanovic, if of course, he remains in power for a while. Goran Svilanovic, along with Zoran Djindjic, Nebojsa Covic, personally wrote the indictment against Professor Vojislav Seselj and asked Carla Del Ponte to take Vojislav Seselj to The Hague so that he could do what he clearly and still does here. He is the one who has organised the arrest of General Sljivancanin, he is the one who promises Karli Del Ponte General Ratko Mladic, only to find a way to find out where General Mladic is; surely, thank God there is no way to reveal it and there is no way he can fulfill his life wish yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33593	The chairman of the GSS parliamentary group, MP Mirko Rosic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33594	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to inform you of something you may already know. Co-operation with The Hague is an obligation still made by Mr. Milosevic in Dayton, when you supported him, and otherwise the principles of the GSS that we always insist on strengthening institutions, that we always pursue the truth, were and were the light motive of the GSS. And then when we were in the minority and now that we're in power, and now it's probably our responsibility to the team that's bigger. I have to tell you that Mr. Goran Svilanovic, whom you call here for everything and everything, among other things, and that nonsense that falls within the domain of a good political joke, has been mobilized and responded to that mobilization because he is a legalist. I have to tell you that I was also mobile and that, first of all, I wanted to help those young people you sent to war without reason. The size of the GSS is exactly what we are in, that we respect the institutions and that we strive for the truth. The truth will be recognized for sure by the citizens of Serbia, whether you want it or not, and recognized it in previous elections and will recognise it in these elections as well. False patriotism, a false advocate for the interests of Serbian citizens, you have already shown. This pawning ended with bombing, destruction, the way you then explained your quasi-patriotic ideals of mom and dad, the way you were then showing it was really extremely degutant. Those forks and spoons that you wanted to use for other purposes, the GSS uses as a cutlery, and we look at those old and rusty in the museum. You're already in the history museum.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33595	The word comes from MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by MP Milka Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll only be a few seconds before he leaves, since I can see that most MPs have gone off topic. A short time ago, Mr Sima Radulovic inspired me, as he was always speaking in a negative context about representatives of the SRS, that he really belonged to a small party of dangerous intentions - to the GSS. He is a man who was a Kumrovite student who carried flowers to Tito's grave and when he was 18 he joined the Union of Communists, then moved to the SPO, and then came to this small party of dangerous intentions - the GSS. And, precisely his closest associates in Nis, Mrs Mirjana Babulovic ordered the beating of actors at the National Theatre in Nis, where even one actor, Mimi, had a myocardial infarction, so we already know enough about your intentions in the South. Ms Natasa Micic is obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, unfortunately, she was, in the most harsh way, knowingly in violation of the Rules of Procedure: starting with the way in which the meetings are held, maintaining order at sessions, as well as ensuring the equality of the Members of the People's Parliaments. Natasa Micic used the dual arches all the time, misusing her discretionary rights often interrupted and limited the work of the MPs. Natasa Micic held meetings many times without quorum, supported frequent voter counterfeits, especially when political trade was not successful. The Rules of Procedure were repeatedly violated because of the way the National Assembly sessions were scheduled, did not take account of the chronological order of the acts submitted, allowed the debate in particular to take place without the government's position and opinion on amendments to the MPs, and was even more often a practice for the Government to submit amendments and before the debate was opened. It is too high to assess its decision to introduce a state of emergency in Serbia against the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the law governing the state of emergency. The most responsible is for the discontinuation of direct television broadcasts by the National Assembly sessions, probably when DOS MPs were often in legal error, and the delusion is not for TV cameras. Unfortunately, Natasa Micic performed both functions, committed brutal violations of the rules, abuse of powers without any coverage of regulations, all contrary to the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. As part of the right to represent citizens, the MP is authorised to represent, represent and defend his political views which he considers to have an impact on the work and content of legal projects adopted by the National Assembly. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia must guarantee full respect for the political, moral and physical integrity of the MPs. At a meeting of the National Assembly held on 22 May 2002, Mrs Natasa Micic, acting as National Assembly President, ordered members of the National Assembly's Security Service to intervene and to establish a state and order by applying force to MPs, as she only imagined it should look. During this brutal intervention at the National Assembly Hall, i.e. in place and at a time when, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, any possibility of applying any of the most innocent forces, and especially the forces by the authorities, has been excluded, there has been a violation of the MPs. On that day, I received minor bodily injuries described by the following findings: protruding - a blood spill of the left thigh and so on: four blood snorkels of 2h2 cm, contusion of both vertebrates, peeling of the skin, condition after surgery of the right thigh, which was just weeks before that incident, contusion of the right half of the face, and decapitation of the head. All injuries are supported by medical documentation i.e. There are medical findings and certain medical records. Although minor physical injuries are involved, it should be borne in mind that they originate with officials who are trained in the exercise of physical coercion, and I have provided only passive resistance. As a constitutional and law-protected person, I could not, as a representative of the citizens, accept the act of self-will and abuse of Natasha Micic. Apparently, Natasha Micic's order for the intervention of security personnel towards many MPs was intended to abuse authority. It is obvious that, on her orders, the Service of Security to Members of the People alone caused immaterial damage in the form of physical pain, as well as fear and mental pain. In this way, Natasa Micic personally inflicted a violation of reputation, honor, freedom and right of personality, not only by issuing impossible orders based on abuse of authority, but by referring words and by bringing MPs to the situation that MPs themselves must protect the integrity of their personalities. I, like some other MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, thought that the course of a certain time would affect Natasa Micic to change her work, behaviour and policy understanding in a very positive way. Obviously, the hopes of Serbian Radical Party MPs were wrong and that only lawsuits against Ms. Natasa Micic remained as the only means, although we are aware of the fact that these lawsuits can be only an attempt that we, the MPs, can make to protect the integrity of the persons of the MPs. Even worse, it happened on 18.6.2001, which could also have been a much more devastating coincidence for the health of the MP, Mr Stevo Kesjejic, from Somboro. A man who is my father's age, and has a son my age, so I'm really experiencing him, in the true sense of words, as a father, a man who's been treated for a long time with myocardial infarction, diabetes, cardiomyopathy, chronic heart failure. That day, thanks to Natasa Micic, he had severe chest pain and lost consciousness here in the National Assembly. The diagnosis put up by colleagues in the hospital that day, following the intervention of members of the Security Service, is as follows: angina pectoris, stenocardia, arterialis hypertension, the lower pressure was 115 millimeters of the living pillar. Mrs. Natasa Micic, it's not funny.- I'm sorry. He had an ECG stelevation in AVL and V1. You know, you have three basics that define the diagnosis of myocardial infarction. This evaluation just points to such changes that are very serious and incompatible with life. Contusio capitis retroauriculis dej. In the corner of the mandibule, the tumerfact is painful for a touch of 4 times 3 cm. Local protruding and painful sensitivity right behind the ear, in the area of the musculus sternokleudomasteudeus (the lateral neck shifter), had strong haematomas. Dg:Contusiones brachi and bill et cubiti bill, injuries to both upper arms, both elbows, caused by tightness and movement by members of the MUP, island, stripy redness, which were visible both from the front and outside of the upper arm and in the elbow area. In the end, Dg: fracture radii loco typico L.dej, (or fracture of the right wrist), Mr. Steva Kesejic wore plasters for three weeks. And about the escorts all over the body, not to mention. Not only did he end up in the hospital and then he had to be in rehab for a long time, but the consequences were much greater in the family. It was announced on RTS that Mr. Stevan Kesjejic is out of the danger of life. That's exactly the transmission his mother watched, a woman who was 81 years old, and she ended up in the hospital the same day because of her brain ischemistry. Understand how serious this was, not only for Mr. Steve Kesjejic's health, which, if it hadn't been for doctors from different parties here to help him, would probably, unfortunately, I'm sure Mrs. Natasha Micicic, and ours, could have ended much more seriously. Thank God, it still ended in the best possible way, but there are still the consequences they are feeling today. That is why most Serbian citizens are unique in the assessment that Serbia has never had such a bad president of the National Assembly. In this assembly of the National Assembly, along with some justified and such recognizable and universal exceptions, there are far more responsible people than Mrs Natasa Micic, who is some strange, set of circumstances at the level of elementary disasters, at the same time the president of the National Assembly and acting as president of the Republic of Serbia. Her hatred, haughtiness, cynicism and other bad characteristics depicted by her moral set are generally known and for this reason we must not allow Mrs Natasa Micic to remain in this function she has performed so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33597	National MP Sima Radulovic, replica. The basis for the replica is a direct mention in the presentation of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33598	I didn't recognize myself, I was mentioned. Now, let me get this straight. First, never, that Mr. Stamenkovic, who probably instructed Cvetanović, knows perfectly well that I was never on the grave of another Tito, nor was I wearing flowers. Although, what happened after that, it's just that I want to go and say I'm sorry. But, like I didn't wear flowers, I didn't even wear a smoothie, and I didn't even wear a meatloaf. I didn't need to be a Kumrovite student, because I was also Mr. Stamenkovic knows, an excellent student in high school and a very good law school student, so I didn't need it. Finally, as I am not ashamed that in 18 years I was admitted to the Union of Communists of Serbia, I am not ashamed that I was also a member of the SPS at a time when it was, believe me, very, very dangerous and terrible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33599	Right on line, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The basis for the replica - mentioning by name. After him, the right to replicate, MP Tomislav Kitanovic, directly mentioning the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33600	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand why Sima Radulovic called me, I didn't say anything about him, but I can agree with him. It is true that he wrote an application to be admitted into the Union of Communists, not in 18, in 17 years, but waited a few months to show his qualities in order to be admitted to the party. He is now a member of the Lustration Commission. Imagine, a man who belonged to a party that banned the work of any other political party, who prevented people from joining the party, it's by the ideology of the Alliance of Communists, by definition it's the Union of Communists, now a man who needs to discuss responsibilities for human rights violations. As far as the staff is concerned, no one accused him of wearing a staff. This was carried by Mr Pavlovic of the Democratic Party. In the end, nothing bad was said, he didn't beat up an actor named Mimi at the National Theatre. It is Mrs Mirjana Barbulovic, vice-president of the Niš City Assembly, a member and official of the Civil Union of Serbia. Mr. Simo, you didn't beat up Mimi, he was beaten up by Mirjana Barbulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33601	National MP Sima Radulovic does not have the right to reply, as this was a replica to the exhibition. National MP Tomislav Kitanovic, right to replica, directly mentioning in the performance of MP Sima Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33602	It is no problem that there are a lot of former members and supporters of the Serbian Renewal Movement in this parliament, such as perhaps it is not a big problem that a lot of the parties that have a SPI starting point have relied on the SPO in the fight to change the regime, too, in this parliament. The problem in my view is that none of the programmes that the Serbian Renewal Movement has advocated for the past 10, 12, 13 years are present in this parliament. I hope that following the next elections that will be very soon, the programme, those SPO definitions will be much more present in the Serbian Parliament, which will be a much better situation in both the Serbian Parliament and Serbia itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33603	Since we no longer have replicas, we are going back to the debate in order of the registered speakers. National MP Milka Marinkovic is not present. The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and after him is the folk MP Anita Beretic. My apologies, the vice president of the parliamentary group has asked that the order of MPs be changed, but I did not read the manuscript but the text. So, MP Marko Culibrk, followed by MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33604	Dear People's MPs, first of all, I would like to comment on how to conduct this debate. If we want true democracy and parliamentaryism about everything, and even the most difficult questions, we should talk without hard words, without strong emotions and a cold head. We, MPs, should view problems not only personally and strictly party, but from the perspective of the historical past and the perspective of the future, respecting the highest strategic interests of the people. Unfortunately, there's very little to be taken care of here. Unfortunately, this session reflects the way we've worked since the 2000 elections. First of all, it comes down to the humiliation of institutions. The institutions are not respected, but are deliberately certified: firstly, two years have not been elected by the Constitutional Court, and now that it has been elected, its decisions are not respected and the Constitutional Court is governed by controversy, which is unacceptable for MPs of the National Assembly to disregard the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Also, we've been in V.D. for a year now. Serbia's president, which is also against the constitution and is not allowed. It is the humiliation of another institution of the president of the Republic of Serbia. We in Parliament have failed to replace the state with partyocracy. Both the Constitution and the law and other regulations should be respected in society at all costs, and no political party's membership card should have any value and advantage over solving problems, rights and duties. Unfortunately, during this period, the role of the Assembly is purely decorative. She's without any independence. The previous decisions of informal and unselected bodies, such as the DOS presidency and the government's college, are simply voted. That's where strategic decisions are made. It is not possible to eradicate leadership syndrome through discussions in the Assembly because of the intolerance in other opinions, and the road to autocracy is open. The public is asphyxiated by the capture of the media, general repression and finally turning democratic institutions into perpetrators of autocratic will. It does not build the authority of institutions, but by their primitive abuse further collapses and defuses, so that, without any resistance and responsibility, new informal powerful centres are placed in which party-political oligarchic authority is concentrated. Hence, the finding that the social and political scene is not dominated by parliamentary debates, but by racing in the production of political-scandalous affairs and turning ideological and political rivals into state enemies and traitors. Society has not been reformed in this period, nor has there been a clear vision of these reforms so far. Society, unfortunately, has symptoms of severe illness and we need serious therapy. Not like our experts on the system, let's try it out so what happens, but therapy based on the exact diagnosis. The best cure for this is the new elections at all levels, including the Assembly level, and that is why we will vote in favour of impeachment of the President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33605	The word has a folk MP Anita Beretic, followed by MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33606	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable and Honorable Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, friends and fellow MPs, I believe that there are a number and a large number of MPs next to me who believe that this debate that has been going on for several days and the debate that is waiting for us and who will continue to know how many more days, so that we are doing something that we MPs of the DOS reform Serbia have advocated not to be right now. When we came after winning the 2000 elections in this institution, to the highest home of democratic Serbia, I thought that this particular home would be the main symbol and stage, but in that positive sense, new policies in Serbia, a new culture in Serbia, a new way of handling. But it took a short while for me to be naive, and unfortunately, at the same time, I was faced daily with what many of my friends and colleagues here and present today have fought against for so many years. Unfortunately, very quickly, the assembly speaker often resembled that great cartoon code, if my association is clear enough, that everything other than speech was done here or that the speech was identified by what was not in this place to compare. If there is any merit for Ms. Natasa Micic as president of the National Curiosity at this time, it is that it is her consistency and her determination and courage to face this and such situation in the National Assembly, to oppose such a situation, and of course both the Constitution and the Law and the Rules of Procedure. These methods were prescribed, they were allowed, it was at the very end of her obligation that she strictly adhered to, but it took courage. So we could, and we had a period before her presidency, she could close her eyes many times, that in the name of democracy she allowed to spread hate speech here on all grounds that had happened since the first day of the constitution of this called the National Assembly, but she didn't. I am, personally, both a woman and a Parliament of People, grateful for it. I admire both the abilities and the courage of a woman to be caught in the middle, aware of risks like all of us here, at least the rest of us who stayed at that definition, that at any cost, and believe with all respect and understanding and a few previous medical findings. I mean, if we were to confront these arguments, many of our medical findings of our loved ones, which we would have collected for the last 10 years, could compete, I say, with all due respect to these findings here. It's not an argument, as I believe it wasn't an exaggerated argument it was even just presenting the medical file of the past. What's so far, despite the time we've already spent and that we're still going to spend, expressed, and called at the same time as an argument, although I, I listened to a large part of the debate, and I think most of the debate I listened to, I don't think I recognized anything among the arguments that we could call an argument. So, the grounds for seeking the discharge of Ms. Natasa Micic are disrespect for the Rules of Procedure, which I do not think stands at all. My conviction and my knowledge, humble knowledge, I'm not a lawyer, that document, not that she didn't respect it, but that she was very strict. It follows immediately, and in relation to the Rules of Procedure itself, there are a number of penalties imposed on Members of the People, which she has said, fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I don't think that there is the essence of the proposal, because immediately, directly, this line, the Rules of Procedure, and then the penalty, and then the money goes. It may have hurt a lot, because, somehow, I don't think that money counts for democracy, and it's not the essence of how much money has been taken because the current Rules of Procedure deserves a certain punishment. What I can understand and what I can't accept is that she's being honored for seduction of the state of emergency. Many times, not only in this debate these days, but many of you have been invited so far, let's say, it's definitely two concepts, two philosophies, two policies still being offered to Serbia and I believe Serbia will not have a dilemma that is right. So, many of you, apart from the fact that many of the epithets of the type of traitors, "the insufficient amount of patriots" and so on, have called for Christianity. I'm falling into believers, maybe not as conservative a guy as it may be a classic believer, but I can't even understand at that level that just a few months, first of all, after death and after killing a man with it is playing with it. Even now, when during these words you play music from mobile phones, and of course on purpose. It doesn't provoke me. It touches me like a man. What is the measure of responsibility and again the courage of Ms. Natasa Micic, and what should she or should not have done according to that theory when the first democratic prime minister in Serbia was killed?- I'm sorry. She's got a huge responsibility for this country. She took it out. Our party, my Democratic Party, has suffered an irreparable loss at that time, but believe me, not after that price we have paid as a party and whose consequences we will certainly always feel, and that human regret forever, my Democratic Party, fellow MPs from the Democratic Party, fellow MPs who have remained consistent with the policy with which we have entered here, will not leave the idea with which they have entered and will not seek 126 MPs in the Assembly, but will seek the majority will in Serbia to achieve, revive, strengthen. I believe the citizens of Serbia know they have two sides these days, have two faces of Serbia. They have what we all started together in 2000, the good part we did on October 5th, but obviously we didn't finish on October 5th. We will remain consistent with this and will not move away from Natasa Micic, as one of the important symbols and as well as such new, real, human, democratic policies that we offer. So she's just one of those symbols. They're not going to drive, as someone said here yesterday, with a march to trial. She's been driving that "marica" a lot of times in her life, like a lot of us. I hope they still do their job, not because we have 126 MPs, but because we have millions of citizens who believe in new and better Serbia. As someone said yesterday yesterday, how we don't mind Natasa Micic as she is, and I say, of course not, but we do mind Natasa Micic and people and women like Natasa Micic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33607	The word is by MP Stevan Kesejic, followed by MP Igor Soldatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the president, the so far president of the National Assembly, has come out in vain. I had no intention of talking about Natasa Micic at all, but I will only talk about the president of the National Assembly who has so far performed her duties in the past of the law, past the Constitution and against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, I'm going to talk about Parliament President, not Natasha Micic. I am not interested in Natasa Micic as a person, and even moreover, I am afraid at the very thought that I will meet again sometime, where we have stayed together, when she has just abused this familiarity and that privacy, so that she has transferred it to the National Assembly. For this reason, today I am talking about how the president of the National Assembly allowed theft to take place in the National Assembly, by the fact that the MPs of the majority voted in foreign cards, apparently the president of the National Assembly, although at the same time the MPs of the SRS pointed to it. Now, coming out, the president of the DOS parliamentary group, the rest of the DOS, did in the most obvious way, removing it from the pocket of someone else's card, inserting it into MPs' units, while at the same time Zoran Krasic pulled it out, throwing it out on the floor, and not responding to such a single procedure, to a rigid attempt at theft that failed that time, because the quorum was still not there. So, despite that theft. After that day, what's happened now is the subject of the debate, and that's whether someone voted here and wasn't there, whether someone was on the flight, so by taxi he got to the vote or not. So I'm talking about the President of the National Assembly having done his inaction with an unprecedented theft in the Assembly, but that's why it's the most responsible thing that's happened. Also, the President of the National Assembly has applied double arches in the application of the Rules of Procedure, which, as such, is nakaradan, is certain, but will probably be applied when this dossic majority, which is not already, feels on its back exactly the democratic principles that are in force today. She was inconclusive about the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party and then the head of the parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, in the context of the circumstances, I was behind this speaker when an incident took place that caused Tomislav Nikolic to be removed from the Assembly, thanks to his own discretionary right, not the obviousness that could be seen from the speech that I was reporting, from this place, during the event, which exists in a stenogram that I said that a group of drunk MPs from the DOS attacked MPs, or deputy MP Tomislav Nikolic's group, at his workplace, in his bench. And instead of having the president of the National Assembly, then the chairman, who is the subject of this debate, immediately interrupts the session and makes adequate measures, she decides that after a long time, based on the statements of some MPs who were in the interest of not being here today and for more time, so we believe by the end of your term, the president of the parliamentary group, or the head of the parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, punishes in a very rigid and shameful manner, and that the Administrative Committee makes such a decision as is not remembered in the history of Serbian parliamentism. As a result, the President of the National Assembly, using his discretionary rights, demeans the MPs, humiliates them to the extent that often individual people sent are disgusted at the invitation sent by the President of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda, because we are sure that the agenda that is in the assembly will certainly not be such as to be broken by the will of the majority and will not be accepted by the agenda, which is mainly of greater interest for the citizens of Serbia, which is proposed by opposition MPs. Not only that, but also the fear of certain MPs. I must tell you that myself and my family are afraid when I go to the National Assembly, as long as the current National Assembly president of the National Assembly is sitting, because I believe, me and my family and a large number of MPs, which will show this vote, that the president of the National Assembly probably has a double personality in it, because the double archeologists she applies and the measures applied by the president of the National Assembly can be identified with the greatest aggressors in the 21st century. This is, of course, funny to you, but human rights violations and freedom are obvious in this National Assembly. The one who proposed the Law on Human Rights, on lustration, does what he predicts to prevent it. Here, for example, the other day, the president of the National Assembly shared our MPs like this: he said MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia and the other side of the anti-lustration majority are on one side. What does that mean? What does the anti-lustration majority mean for the president of the National Assembly? So he's dividing MPs into ours and hers. Could the President of the National Assembly behave, when he chaires the National Assembly, to determine in advance what proposals he will make, or what MPs he will view as a stepmother and who as a mother. You said here and I agree, of course, because that's what the Constitution says, that the president of the National Assembly is not the first among the equals, but that it is the most responsible for this National Assembly. But that's not how she behaves. In fact, it created an ambience to make a fair out of this people's assembly, to make a circus, and that the MPs of the DOS majority behave as they wish, and that, at no point in time, any MP of the people or at least some of them were, but it had to, because others punished far more seriously, as Tomislav Nikolic with 90 days, while, for example, the MP from DOS's majority was punished with a warning, which committed such a violation that he could do under Articles 101 and 102. The Rules of Procedure to be far away at the same time, because he distracted another MP in the workplace, cursing him with inappropriate words that were not for the public and for this pay phone. Of course, that punitive MP had to be punished with the least punishment, for no one could curse his mother with Serbian radicals, nor insult him in any other way, nor threaten him in his workplace. And you've made sure of that, and you'll still make sure that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party remain principled to the end, that the greater Democrats than you are for the simple reason that these arguments we make are based on facts, on the stenograms we have, which we don't want to read. But for the sake of illustration, I must tell you that this Parliament is not ruled by the National Assembly and MPs of the National Assembly, also thanks to the National Assembly president, for the reason that this assembly is ruled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or rather by certain ministers and vice-presidents of the Government, especially Ceda Jovanovic, now the new Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, Vladan Batic, Dusan Mihajlovic and others, who receive the word and when it is not possible to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. It just happened yesterday. On which basis, therefore, the Rules of Procedure and the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gordana Komic, were violated here. On what basis he was given yesterday, when it was not on the agenda, Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic, who did not even speak on behalf of the GSS parliamentary group who had the right to talk about a motion to resolve the duties of the National Assembly president from these lines. So, we believe that this Parliament is no longer ruled by MPs chosen by the will of citizens in 2000, but by the government of anarchy, the rule of lawlessness, and for these reasons it is necessary to discuss elections at all levels, and also, all of you who are interested, you can come to a rally in Vrsac tomorrow at 15.00 hours, to hear what I have failed to say about this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33609	This has exhausted the time available to the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group and regardless of being a MP, as a speaker, has no parliamentary right to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. It is my duty to give the necessary notice. So, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure: "The Prime Minister and members of the government get the word when they ask for it and do not refer to it as a restriction on the duration of the exposure. "That is the only reason why every member of the government and every Deputy Prime Minister who enters this assembly must be allowed to speak according to Article 89 at every point in the agenda. Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the Assembly's office to come into the session room and see if the MP cards have their own owners in the follow-up benches. The word is by MP Igor Soldatovic, followed by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33610	Dear colleagues, I must admit that my predecessor surprised me and that he was in fact one of the few MPs who spoke about what today's topic is on the agenda, namely the work of Natasha Micic as president of the Republic Assembly. Only in relation to what he said, I'd like to ask you all a question and the public who's watching this. Who's in charge of determining when the Constitution is broken? So, in the discussions we've had so far, I think it's 300 to 400 times that Natasha Micic has broken the Constitution this time, that Natasha Micic has violated the Constitution on that occasion, that she is responsible for things that are not at all in her jurisdiction, and I would like to make it clear in future that it is his personal position, because it could lead Serbian citizens astray. Then who is in charge of determining when the Rules of Procedure is injured? Are there certain bodies in the congregation or the congregation itself, who are in charge? Every time one of you says that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, it is in fact his personal position and that is how you lead the citizens of Serbia into error as well. You are talking about Natasa Micic as the person responsible for the construction of highways, for agreements concluded with other countries, about a woman who is responsible for whether certain schools are open, not open, whether factories work or not. I have to tell you, it's not her jurisdiction either. Her jurisdiction is very clear and very precisely defined by the Constitution and the laws. She has the authority to lead the congregation, to represent and represent the congregation. My personal impression is that Natasa Micic did quite well in the past, because the question I've been asking myself all this time is that I would behave if I were her. What grade does the president of the assembly need to give the MP a slap on the other MP? What does the President of the National Assembly or the President of the National Assembly need to do with the MP who called on the police to carry out a coup? What does the President of the National Assembly need to do when another Member comes to her and pours water on her? What reactions would be appropriate in that case? In what way could any normal person in such a situation react? I think that in such a situation, Serbian citizens would have kicked these people out of the National Assembly and banned them from politics and I think that the patience that Natasa Micic had with some of us in the previous period was commendable. I can personally say that she is an extremely brave woman because she stood before all of us and the public of Serbia and took responsibility for all the ugly things that some of us did in the previous period. Is the debate about Natasa Micic really a debate about Natasa Micic or something else? I thought there was something else, but here's a colleague who spoke before me opened the topic. But what is true is that a large number of you spoke about other things, or spoke about Natasa Micic as a symbol, and the proponent of this debate said very explicitly that we are not talking about Natasa Micic because of what she did or did not do, but because she was a representative of the government, or representative of the parliamentary majority. Does anyone think someone should be removed because he's a representative of the parliamentary majority or because of how he worked? What are these arguments that you make in favour of its resolution? That he doesn't think the same as you or that he violates the Rules of Procedure and violates the provisions of the law and the Constitution, which he should adhere to? I've gotten the impression that it's that she doesn't think like you and don't implement what your policy is. Natasa Micic was elected to the elections held in 2000, along with me and 174 other MPs on the DOS list. When we entered this room, we had a clearly defined policy that we had spent over the past years. It is a policy of European Serbia, a policy of Serbia that is in good relations with its neighbours, a policy of Serbia in which pensioners receive pensions, in which the sick have the right to health care, a policy of Serbia in which workers can work and have a place to work and a policy of Serbia in which young people have perspective. Remember what Serbia looked like in 2000 and what it looked like years before and see what Serbia looks like today. I can say that Serbia is far from what I want it to be and I can say that there are many things that I don't like and live in this country, in the real world, with real people who have real problems. I know how my generation lives, I know how my grandparents live, I know what pensions are, but today I'm standing here in front of you and I'm telling you that what we've been doing for the past three years is good and that it would be best for Serbia that this policy, as it is today, continues to be implemented in the years to come. I think the debate, which we have today, from my point of view, is a waste of time, because because of this debate that was launched the way it was launched, is delayed by the adoption of really important laws. If you know what the value added tax is about, it would solve some of the problems that we are currently having, such as health workers' problems, which need bigger salaries, such as the problems of the gray economy, but in a certain way we have come to the conclusion that we are not discussing it but are discussing whether or not Natasa Micic was doing well, and in fact those who launched this initiative are not interested in it at all. They don't care about that. They're interested in the effects of what we've been trying to do and what we're trying to do today as little as possible. When we came in here, there were 176 of us, and then 136 of us today, if there are 120 or 130 of us, we'll see when there's a vote. One MP asked whether we had imagined why DSS MPs, the Serbian Radical Party, the SPS, Serbian Unity Party have the same stance. Why do all these MPs have the same attitude? Do they have that attitude because they all feel the same way or because they hate us, because they hate what we do, what we do, and what we do? What is a joint statement made by a fellow MP that a coup should be carried out and a call for legality? What's in common in those two statements? What does Mr Vojislav Kostunica and Slobodan Milosevic have in common? Let Serbian citizens think about what is common to these people. Do they have the same vision of Serbia? Is Serbia, which they want tomorrow, the same? Is this Serbia where pensioners have pensions, sick health care, and a young chance? Do they want it the same way? The only thing that is common to all these people is the desire to change this government, which three years ago began to take Serbia on the right path today, regardless of all mistakes and all failures, regardless of imperfections, and day and day, as long as there are MPs of the Democratic Party in this room, and as long as there are most of them, it will do so and will fight for Serbia, which has been destroyed for the past 13 years. I argue that the only common thing between opposition MPs and those who have left DOS is hatred for the government that leads Serbia to better tomorrow. Whatever it seems to you, it's the only truth. My question to you is what policy will be yours tomorrow, and how will you lead Serbia tomorrow? Will it be Serbia to talk to the world or will it be Serbia to argue with the world? Will it be Serbia's liberal capitalism or will it be Serbia's communism? Will it be Serbia that will abolish pensions or will it be Serbia that will cut taxes? What are you going to do, gentlemen, and in what way will you agree, what alternative do you offer to the citizens of Serbia? What kind of Serbia should it be if it shouldn't be like this? Which way should Serbia go, if not this way? If you answer these questions, the citizens of Serbia will support you, but you cannot answer those questions because there is no such answer. Another big difference between us and you -- you hate, we believe. Our idea is "positive", your idea is "negative". Never in the history of negative ideas did good, and if your idea wins, it won't be good for Serbia, because you don't believe what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33611	The right to reply, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, the basis for the event in which she participated, and mentioned in the presentation of the previous speaker, then the MP Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33612	Mr. Soldatovic, between the two outstanding exams, probably, and as an unfinished student at Law School, you didn't have to come here today at the National Assembly Hall, because you weren't three years away from how long this meeting lasted, and when you came under the bench, you were unsuccessfully underlining the books of the exams that you're about to attend, probably 10 years, I'd say by the years how many you have! As for your engagement - you talk about the economic, economic situation in Serbia? Mr. Soldatovic, your first job is in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia! You're a typical example of what power we have, what the Democratic Party is in general and what its personnel are like. You, an imperfect law school student, without even one day of employment, have been sent to Vladic's Han, to the social enterprise "Sloga", a furniture-making factory for more than 50 years, to be at the head of the Management Board in a factory in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has unlawfully imposed temporary measures! In the past six months, Mr. Soldatovic, you have been as chairman of this Management Board with the director who robbed workers of the social company "Sloga"; over 100 million dinars have disappeared and you are coming for a pay phone and you are talking about the overall economic situation in our country! On the other hand, Mr. Soldatovic, you can't talk at all about something that's the subject of debate here, and to be impartial and to assess Mrs. Natasa Micic's state of mind, and especially this controversial 22 May when I, unfortunately, just sprayed her with water, because there was so much water, and only because of that, the citizens resented me for being gone, for a simple reason, which would be determined by the competent state authorities. So, there is a process, the First Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade has initiated proceedings against me as if I were the biggest terrorist in the country, and as if I have hurt the honor and reputation of not knowing what kind of person, and not this president of the Assembly, who by the way, with leaving the "identification card" as she says, is no longer in the hall, you can not speak at all about something that will go to Natasa Micic or perhaps you can, but to confirm everything that Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic said and the MPs who are looking for her shift. In order not to have such a parliament and not to enter as you said among 176 MPs in 2000, you will have to work even more in your Democratic Party, and then to see if you will ever cross the censorship, so how much you will have MPs, but judging by how much you are responsible for the Democratic Party and what you have done in the past three years as an MP here, I do not believe you will find yourself in the hands of those of the Democratic Party who are likely to be here at the meeting of Skuština. And let me tell you before Mrs. Comic, even though she will say it's not your right, you have no right to a replica, because you challenged him.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33613	Three minutes, People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet, right to replication of the party or as an authorised representative? Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33614	A young colleague, Soldatovic, said we are discussing trust here, i.e. the resolution of Natasa Micic, the president of the National Assembly, says -- on an initiative launched in the way it was launched. The initiative, i.e. the motion to dismiss the president of the National Assembly, is fully legal and legitimate, submitted on the basis of Article 30. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In his inspired speech, counterpart Soldatovic mentions hatred as a characteristic feature of those who are for the resolution of Natasa Micic. Hate for political opponents has been shown from the outset by DOS representatives, above all, by representatives of the Democratic Party. You showed and showed hate on the SRS case when, without any legal basis, you were able to act that the SRS had moved out of its party premises in the magistrate's square of victory in Zemun. We are for the sake of the Serbian public, you all know this well, although you will not say, I want to say that we have leased this building for 30 years, that we have paid the lease in advance in accordance with the contract and that the court that decided that we should move out of those rooms has not assessed that there are any problems regarding this contract and about paying the rent, but, God, my judgment is that this building, given that under the protection of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, is intended exclusively for cultural purposes. They forgot that there was a Beobank in that building before that, that there was also a Fourth Municipal Court, that for the last 10 years there was a dove where it couldn't get in from a spider, from dead pigeons, and what we didn't find there. Now the gentlemen of the District Court, who received a warrant to confirm that verdict, have estimated that the SRS is not cultural, and the SRS in their rooms is printing newspapers, printing books, printing scientific journals, and even if it is cultural goods and in this respect we meet the conditions and there is not even that reason to move out of those rooms, and it is obvious that it is hate, that it is a political conflict, that it is an attempt to paralyze the work of the SRS that you have no chance, even if you work from the meadow or below the tent.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33615	MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, replica, and MP Zoran Angelkovic, the same replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33616	Here's the thing, Mr. Soldatovic, don't measure everything by yourself - the DSS doesn't hate or hate anyone. You, if you hate it and it's the basis for your political action and you act that way on a political scene, which is evident from these discussions, we don't hate anyone. We just want Serbia to be better and we who used to be your partners and not just us, but also G17 and "New Serbia" and the People's Movement "Resistance" and "Independence Union" and "SPO", we are looking for your resignation, we are asking for the resolution of Natasa Micic and we will vote against the government of the Republic of Serbia. And it's not one party, it's not someone who's kidnapped, it's the cry of the people, and you can't accuse someone of what you're doing. As members of a socialist international, you have no right to talk about liberal capitalism - then why are you in a socialist international? If you wanted to go to an association or Association of parties of European orientation that advocates liberal capitalism or something, you would join an association where the Liberals of Serbia - the Association of Liberal Parties or the Association of People's Party of Europe or Europe people party, in which it is a member of the DSS and G-17, which is the Association of People's Parties of Europe, in which the parties belonging to the right center and who advocate true privatisation, for private property and advocates a social state, a country in which they will know who is doing what. You have replaced liberal capitalism with "burazer privatisation", "burazer relations", "dum ties", by selling sugar for "three euros", "mafian asphalting of roads through Serbia," you have replaced "by giving credit from the Serbian Development Fund to the relatives of ministers or father-in-laws of ministers". That's how you see liberal capitalism. Your vision of liberal capitalism "as it manages to kidnap and rob Serbia". That's not how we see liberal capitalism. For you, liberalism means the destruction of Serbia and the destruction of what we have inherited from Serbia. That's why your liberal capitalism costs this Serbia a lot. That is why the DSS, G-17, "New Serbia", the People's Movement "Resist", the SPO and the "Independence Union" seek extraordinary parliamentary elections. This is what anyone who thinks well of Serbia is looking for. You are a minority and the support you have in Serbia is a single-digit number. Because the sooner we go to the extraordinary parliamentary elections, the sooner we stop "your liberal capitalism", that is, the tearing of Serbia and putting it in private pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33617	The word is by MP Zoran Angelkovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Igor Soldatovic, based on the mention of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33618	First, Mr. Soldatovich, I love you all. The Socialists don't know they hate it, they just love it, so forget it. We're real lefties and all we know is that we love. We are for social justice, for love, for solidarity, and there is a very clear thing. You have forgotten something that has been happening here in parliament for the last two days, and that is to raise tension and attempt to conflictParliament, precisely from some government MPs, and above all from Mrs Natasa Micic. I remind you what she said yesterday - I'm ashamed of the MPs. She said she was ashamed of the MPs! She listed the "red-black" coalition. I guess she meant socialists and radicals. There are, no less, 71, with those seven, of course. 71 MPs, by 16,500 voters for each parliamentary post, are no less than 16,500 for the political party to get one parliamentary seat in the Republic Parliament, at 27,000 voters, 16500 should vote. It is more than a million voters in Serbia. She is ashamed of a million voters in Serbia. Isn't that hate speech? What are we talking about? Who does she hate? We MPs, no, she hates the citizens who voted for us. That's a million voters. I pray and hope that you will ask Ms. Natasa Micic to apologize to the citizens of Serbia, I don't need, MPs should not, but Serbian citizens who voted for us to apologize for being ashamed of them. They shouldn't be ashamed of themselves. We're proud of those voters and those voters who voted for you. We are proud of all citizens of Serbia, because it is our citizens of Serbia, no matter what political option they voted for. That is what this parliament and all MPs should be adorn, from Parliament's president to the last MP here and then there will be no hate stories in Parliament and then Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33619	If we have finished the cycle of replicas, let us go back to why we are at this session and on the topic of the agenda - Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of Natasa Micic. The People's MP Branko Ruzic, after him, has the People's MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33620	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, above all, must look back on yesterday's and today's hard-working speeches, particularly the demagogues, speak to a member of the ruling coalition, who really don't lead to anything. This polarisation of MPs to such and such, those who hate and, I guess, who love or believe simply, one average voter in Serbia will not help them decide to vote for those who propagate such a story here. Serbia does not need hate, Serbia needs extraordinary parliamentary elections. As far as the agenda is concerned, I must say that it is difficult to speak when Mrs. Micic is not present in the O.R., but we are not losing motivation, since we believe that we own the argument. What I want to point out is to ask the ruling coalition's MPs to disclassify us into some pre-election coalitions, given that the SPS has long decided that they will go to elections on their own. That way they could just raise the ratings to the other parties that put us in the same basket. Of course, yesterday and today, we heard a comment here on the fact that it's a lady. We've even heard a new term -- that there's a "Serbian male chauvinism". We've heard that visually effective some photos of the lady are in question, perhaps a basic criterion and a basic peak value to stay in this place. I believe that this may be interesting for some tabloids and some yellow press, but what is important to the SPS parliamentary group and what is interesting, these are the reasons why we will vote for a vote of no confidence, i.e. for Mrs Micic's shift as president of the Republika Srpska Assembly and, in particular, from the post v.d. President of the Republic. Such a weak argument, and also given that the lady in question tried to tell the citizens on two occasions yesterday, but in a way that was not adequate, since she mentioned polarisation of a "red-black" coalition, and also mentioned that she was ashamed of us. We will not say that we are ashamed of her, but it would be best for her to leave one seal in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism and to resign on her own, with regard to the fact that by the time the current prime minister arrived at the session, he thought about whether it was only Mrs Micic, or whether it was a broader issue and one systemic action and policy that was being taken and which destroyed both the institutions and the state, and above all the interests of the Serbian citizens. Of course, all these doubts were drawn apart by Prime Minister Zivkovic, who said that Mrs Micic is the exhibit of the government of the Republic of Serbia, how much we have been able to read among the ranks, that she is the puppet of the government and that she is in the Assembly conducting a policy that should lead to a perfiduous abolition of democracy in Serbia. Here, as some of the negative characteristics, they told us about the fact that we were destroying the institutions. It's simply not true, because I don't see any institutions in the state of Serbia working and exist. All the institutions of the system are destroyed by just such a policy, which is systematic, which is the policy of this government, as we heard yesterday, and such a policy cannot lead to a better neither Serbia nor all Serbian citizens. I don't want to personally attack Mrs. Micic, because I don't think she deserved it. Also, those who defended her here yesterday, I believe that they were chosen by chance, so the true defenders of the character and the actions of Mrs. Micic were not chosen, since we heard from one that she was not intelligent enough, but she was beautiful, and from the others we heard she was targeted by "Serbian male chauvinists". I think that the woman in Serbia, and in the world, has long passed the emancipation process and that she only speaks of those who spoke in this way. Perhaps they are in favour of some matriarchate, when it is simple history and it will never exist in Serbia again, or anywhere in the world. I am saying that I do not want to personally attack Mrs. Micic, but simply everything she has done since December 6th when she voted in front of the cameras herself, she voted in front of all Serbian citizens for her election post, so to this day, she does not give hope to the citizens, nor to us MPs that she can do the job in a way that is appropriate to one of the parliament's presidents. First of all, Parliament's president is the president of all parliament MPs whose head he is. The President of Parliament cannot divide MPs into such and such. Parliament's president must do everything written in the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the law, must not conceal the theft of parliament, must bear the consequences of concealing theft in parliament. Stealing in Parliament has been proven here, all citizens in Serbia know that. What this government system policy did and did last week's "copernican craft" and bought time, about a month or two, so they might have raised their ratings, because they didn't have good arithmetic and calculations when the session was scheduled, so they didn't even come to it, just talking about their impotence. The MPs of the ruling coalition talk about their anxiety and say that the total delegation of this parliament was carried out, not now, but certainly a year and a half ago and says that Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, above all, require extraordinary parliamentary elections, not that any party would come to power, not that they would hate or love each other, because we need to know that there is no love, no hate, only eternal interests, the articulation of the party's programme that you represent. The elections are needed for the simple reason that Serbia needs political stability, and after this political stability, we also need to achieve economic stability, given that the economy and the economy under the government and the government, to the extent that they are devastated, simply those who deal with the problem will have major problems. Only the question of the trust of Natasha Micic, of course, is that it is closely linked to the issue of trust with the government of the Republic of Serbia. What would be heroism and Mrs. Micic, but also the Government and its personification in the image of Mr. Zivkovic, is to resign or, at the proposal of the Government, Ms. Micic, given that he is in the status of V.D. On a proposal from the Government, the President of the Republic disbands the Assembly and calls for extraordinary parliamentary elections. Perhaps the little credibility you have with Serbian citizens would be preserved in this way. If you don't, of course this insidious process of your fall will lead you to a situation that you may be some minor political party. And the people say, I have to mention it when we talk about Mrs. Micic, given that she performs two functions: she is both Parliament Speaker and V.D. The president of Serbia. There is one joke that Slobodan Milosevic has shown what Serbia's president should be, that Mr Milan Milutinovic has not shown what the president of Serbia should be, and that Mrs Micic has shown that Serbia may not need a president at all. Given that we are a serious political party and that we believe Serbia needs a president, but primarily elected in the direct elections, and not in some delegate principle as in communism, we believe that all this together must lead to an emergency parliamentary elections being called. Indeed, in order not to be ashamed of Mrs Micic and her, I call on her to take that step and, given that she has a clear conscience as she says and calmly says, to resign and to speed up the process of Serbia's democratisation, which has indeed been stopped in the past two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33621	The MP Petar Cvetkovic announced in a row, but he again has an appointment of the Administrative Board, which was the reason he did not speak and when he was first registered, so I pray next in line, and that is MP Borisvoje Drakulovic, after him, MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33622	Fellow MPs, I won't be long. Indeed, there are exhaustive discussions in which much has been said, and in fact it is not enough said, because what is true is said, and the coming of Natasha Micicic as president of the Assembly is an elemental disaster for Serbia, which means that because of this DOS government, I am afraid that cataclysm will take place, and that there will be no cataclysm, wake up you DOS or Democrats as you call yourself, call elections, save Serbia and save your honor and face.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33623	The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, followed by MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33624	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, three years ago I was twice proud of the citizens of Serbia who, after the decade of the sun, decided to stop the collapse by showing in the September and December elections unreserved support for the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, as well as honor and pride that I, as an MP, belonged to the two-thirds majority of 176 MPs who had been given the mandate to change the previous Serbia. I thought we didn't get a mandate to rule, but we got a mandate for change. I knew that already after the first reform moves and the intended root reforms and changes will be difficult to maintain such a high level of support, but also, convinced that, with the unity of all democratic forces and truth as the strongest weapon, we can make discontinuity with Serbia at the threshold of the 21st century, defend its national interests with the methods and dictionaries of the 19th century with all known results. Unfortunately, after a few months, I was denied because I noticed that part of the winning coalition wanted to capitalise on the people's trust and to use the high rating of its party leader, who built a complete DOS coalition, in the personal and party interest. Suddenly, despite the two-thirds majority, it has become very difficult to pass laws in this assembly, and those laws that need to change Serbia and the adoption of a new constitution have proved in the perspective as a increasingly difficult task. For illustrations, I remember the difficulties we had when we passed one of the reform laws with the security of the quorum. When the then president of the assembly threw MPs, how unrecorded in parliamentary practice that the ruling majority...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33625	People's MP, I'm sorry to interrupt. You will have the opportunity to get the word from the beginning, because the electronic voting system has seen 78 or 77 MPs present in the hall. Please determine if we have a quorum for work, and please, MP, sit down and determine if we have a quorum for work, with a personal surprise that those who are proposing for this item of the agenda do not want to work, but fine. Please determine if there is a quorum for work. Here you go. It's completely unusual, of course, to interrupt the speaker, but the case was that the speaker mentioned the quorum in the performance and that was the reason. The reason most MPs sit is respect for the Rules of Procedure. It's my duty to check the quorum and make the quorum work. Since the usual break time is near, I'm setting a break and at 15.00 hours we'll continue work in the afternoon. I really ask the MPs to be in the O.R. at 15.00 hours and to prove that when they speak of the respect of the Rules of Procedure, they do so. Of course, the SRS have entered the O.R. and are participating in the quorum. I simply expect that from all MPs in this assembly at the beginning of the afternoon session. Thank you. [[After break - 16.05]] We're continuing the work of the afternoon session. My personal apology for being late, otherwise we start at 3:30. It was my obligation to attend the Internet checklist opening. That's why I apologize to the National Assembly in 20 minutes late, since we usually start at 3:30. Please determine if we have the quorum needed to work. I realize we have the quorum needed to work. The word is from MP Milan Stanimirovic, who was interrupted in his presentation, because it was seen that there was no quorum needed for work. After him, the word is made by MP Joca Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33627	Dear Madam Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, here I am, as a Spanish series, just before lunch, shortly after lunch, below. What the old Latins say - repetitio six mother studiorum, so we'll repeat some things for all those who, of course, haven't heard it before lunch. So, as I said, three years ago, I was twice proud: proud of the citizens of Serbia who, after a decade of sunflowers, decided to stop the collapse in this country, showing in the September and December elections unreserved support to DOS; and honor and pride that, as an MP, I belong to the two-thirds majority of 176 MPs who have been given the mandate to change the previous Serbia. I thought we didn't get a mandate to rule, but we got a mandate for change. I knew that after the first reform moves and planned, root changes, it would be difficult to maintain such a high level of support. Also, convinced that, with the unity of all democratic forces in the country and the truth, as the strongest weapon, we can create discontinuity with Serbia, which at the threshold of the 21st century, defended its national interests with the methods and dictionaries of the 19th century, with all the known results. Unfortunately, after a few months, I was denied because I noticed that part of the winning coalition wanted to capitalise on the people's trust and to use the high rating of its party leader, who built a complete DOS coalition, in the party's and personal interest. (From O.R.: Theme. Yes, this is the topic, gentlemen. Suddenly, despite the two-thirds majority, it became very difficult to pass laws that should change Serbia. The adoption of a new constitution has shown itself in the perspective as an increasingly difficult task, despite the 176 MPs from the beginning of this story. For the sake of illustration, I remember the difficulties we had, and I think when we passed one of the reform laws, I think it was the Labour Act, with the assurance of the quorum, when the then president of the Assembly threw MPs that it was unrecorded in parliamentary practice that the ruling majority was coming out of the Assembly, to bring down the quorum for a decision, and to what I replied, that it was unrecorded in parliamentary practice for someone to be elected by the ruling majority for parliament, at the same time, as well as the opposition to the majority who chose it. We had no reason to agree to this behaviour, because we were aware that we had fought for our mandates in the decades-long struggle with Milosevic's regime. While some mandates apparently took place, so with unprecedented ease, they irresponsibly played with them and the electoral will of the citizens. Many of these days the question arises where the DOS MP was and how he voted in the adoption of reform laws. We ask the citizens of Serbia where there are 50 MPs who have been given a mandate with us, not to rule, but to change Serbia! Where are our messengers and yours today? The answer is clear. Here they are in a coalition with those that Serbia and its citizens said two-thirds -- no, at the end of 2000. All the excuses and reasons in front of this fact become meaningless and appropriate to them, by writing a folk proverb, I would say, "in lies are short feet, but great sockets." Today we are talking about trusting the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Micic. First of all, because someone failed the people's will expressed in the September and December 2000 elections. It would be funny, and if it weren't sad, to hear claims from this pay phone that the assets of October 5th are being guarded by destroying the democratic government of Serbia and the president of Parliament, in co-operation with the Soviets, the SRS and the SPS, as well as MPs who, under suspicious circumstances, changed their political opinion, if ever had one. So we are accused of trading, and they claim to have received most of it. I call on citizens to think before the next election, whenever they are, about MPs acting like footballers, who, after signing a fabulous contract, claim that they've been rooting for that club since childhood, with all their hearts, and that's the fourth, fifth club they've been rooting for since childhood. Some clubs, for which they just signed contracts, did not exist in their political childhood. In memory of Serbian citizens, a fresh memory of former SFRJ member Vasil Tupurkovski's words about a non-discipline coalition that subsequently brought down Yugoslavia. I am convinced that Serbian citizens in the next elections will not allow a non-discipline coalition to bring Serbia back or break it down. Many have been struggling to accept Natasha Micic's election as Parliament's president. They find it difficult to get used to Serbia and its parliament that does not look like Dragan Tomic, Zoran Aradjelovic, Aleksandr Bakocevic, Slobodan Unkovic, and also a predecessor at Natasa Micic's place. The change was too obvious for some. You've asked for elections and you'll get them if the government and the President of Parliament don't get the majority. We will ask the citizens of Serbia if they want to go back to the way things were, or if this new picture is more expensive for them and this new face of Serbia. Smiled, cheerful, intelligent, beautiful, discreet, responsible, well-versed, such is the power needed by Serbia. Some of whom lack of intelligence, indecisiveness, unpreparedness to take responsibility for work is a safeguard sign, for many reasons, have proved undecided, and are only determined to bring down the government and the President of Parliament. This Serbia has had enough of those who are determined to crash. Serbia needs those who are determined to build and create. In public, a scandalous proposal went over it, following the tragic death of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. The proposal on a concentration government was given with ease, without an elementary awareness of its consequences. Instead of lustration as a spiritual cleansing of this people, you have offered amnesty with this proposal as well as on 6 October. Is there a greater mockery of the two-thirds electoral will of the citizens shown at the end of 2000? Is there greater disrespect for the million Serbian citizens who went to the streets of Belgrade and cities across Serbia to defend the October 5th 2000 election victory? Is there a uglier slap that could have been struck by hundreds of thousands of citizens who paid tribute to Dr Zoran Djindjic, architects of Serbia's new modern one? Joining the government was offered to those who easily played and spent two centuries of Serbian history. With disastrous consequences for the people and for the state, those who announced "blood spring" and "29 May" not to parliamentary parties and who not everything, because it's too ugly to be by chance. The assessment of your behaviour will be given in the next election of a river of normal, decent and peaceful people who want to live in normal Serbia and the future for their children, as well as on 15 March this year, will quietly walk this time to the ballot boxes and say what they think about your proposals and your policy. The speaker also mentioned some story today about the Socialist International and Democratic Party's membership in the Socialist International and how it is incompatible with liberal capitalism. That claim got a big round of applause. Don't be deluded by your head of Parliament. Please, in which system the social democratic parties live in Germany, Spain, Belgium and other European countries, in which they live, are members of the Socialist International. In explaining the reason for the shift, Natasa Micic was mentioned, dear gentlemen, and the punishments given to MPs by the Rules of Procedure, which was adopted by a large majority. The Rules of Procedure would not be restrictive if the conduct of the MPs was often not too destructive. The fines are extremely mild compared to the ossion and boastful behavior inappropriately to such a tall home. The behaviour of some political actors has not been sanctioned in the past decade by the Rules of Procedure, but the penalties for such behaviour are nevertheless imposed. Unfortunately, not those who have earned them by their political behavior. Politicians have been doing inaccessible things for the past decade, and for their behavior, the people have been punished by bombing, sanctions, isolation, poverty, misery, loss of territory. You will agree that, according to Serbian citizens, this business variant of punishment is certainly both more favourable and cheaper. It is right that those who claim that this is not about the trial of Natasa Micic, but about the policy she represents. Yes, Ms. Micic is a representative of modern European and democratic Serbia. Contrary to a policy that has resulted in the largest national disaster in the past two centuries with an unrecorded economic science of a gross national product from 29 billion dollars to only 10 billion, over a decade. We refuse to speak of our trust by those who have failed the people's will expressed in the last elections. Our trust cannot be talked about by those who have put personal and party interest above Serbia's interest, immediately after winning the elections. If we had asked you dear gentlemen, we would never have been the government. We then asked the citizens of Serbia, we will ask them today and in the future, and only their will for us will be the supreme law. If Natasi Micic showed no confidence, they would show no confidence in their own political stances and programmes, and therefore this is also the defence of democracy in Serbia and electoral will. We show the trust of Natasa Micic, because she is also the image of a policy that is governed by the political principles of prudence, responsibility and passion for the common good. We show the trust of Natasa Micic because she is a different representative, other Serbia and that is why the thorn is in the eye, we show the trust of Natasa Micic because she is also a character of the state and national seriousness, economic competence and European orientation of our coalition. We express the trust of Natasa Micic, because it is also a policy of joining Europe, adopting European standards and revitalising the best tradition. We show the trust of Natasa Micic because she is also a symbol of a policy that takes care of citizens' problems rather than problems with officials and political parties, aware that the descendants will not remember who said anything about whom, but who did what for the people and for the state. We do not agree to the shift of Natasha Micic as we did not agree to the changes dosed on the spoon. We don't agree to make half the difference and half the difference. We do not agree to the association of ethnic and populist elements with elements of the Western economy, because, gentlemen, the standard of the West and the policy of the East cannot. Not a civil state under national homogenisation imperative, cannot redesign something that cannot be redesigned, can't legitimise Milosevic with no Milosevic, can't be cheap demagogy and populism that ultimately costs very expensive, can't be a strong dictionary towards the International Community where we always cut ourselves as a state. People, the citizens of Serbia once said "no" to this policy. They will again, for they will know to choose between those who work and those who wise, those who draw forward, and those who draw back. We have a vision, competent people and a fundamental honesty for citizens who have given mandate for change. All those who want modern, democratic Serbia are welcome. After that, I will end up with the words of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who will finish every political speech until the end of the next elections. If you have a vision, water, if you want to follow, follow, and if you don't want either, stay away from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33628	Dear People's MPs, on the basis of Article 84(2) of the Notice, for the grave violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by MP Dragan Markovic, in a speech for the National Assembly, and after the opinions of the Administrative Committee have been delivered, I give my statement on the basis of Article 104(2) of the move from the session. People's MPs, the measure of distance from the session is the most difficult measure possible to give to the MP. A measure of distance from the session means addressing people who voted for MP Dragan Markovic. If you have not already read or understood the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, then I warn you, all of the last five rows on my left, you are inappropriately reacting, that it is inadmissible, and that it shows disrespect for the National Assembly. Therefore, I express the distance measure pursuant to Article 104(2) and Article 108(3). Rules of Procedure: "The distance from the session referred to in Article 104(2) of this Rules of Procedure shall be applied for the next 90 days of the session from the day of departure". The way MP Dragan Šormaz, MP Dragisa Djokovic, receives from the bench, delegates your right to ever speak for this speaker at a time when such a difficult measure of distance is expressed you speak of the obligation that we all respect the Rules of Procedure and respect the rules of parliamentaryism. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz, a replica, and the National MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33629	Mrs. Komic, it is my right to speak for this speaker and what I will say and how I will speak in the December 2000 elections. You're the last person to decide what I'm gonna say about this pay phone and what I'm not gonna say. So don't act like a schoolteacher, I'm not your little girl here at school.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33630	You have obtained the right to reply, regardless of the chairman’s right to give notice to MPs who do not respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, without having the right to reply, and I am the first person to keep in line with the Rules of Procedure what you are saying at the speaker of the National Assembly. National MP Dragisa Djokovic. Here you are, in the name of tolerance, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33631	Here, there will come a moment that we will discuss the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman now, and there will be words, and then we will listen to strong patriotic speeches, loaded with charges, listen to stories of political commissioners who look a lot like me to the comrades of Krcun, Rankovic and others, listen to stories of those who today deliver those who defend Kosovo, who trade and speculate at secret meetings with Karl del Ponte, and this is why they are here today telling torture over the Assembly, who are eliminating my right of speech. The right of speech by Mrs. Comic stems from those 2.5 million, which one list won on September 24, 2000, not October 5th. Don't forget that the second list got 500,000 pieces less. It's a right that can speak for this speaker, and who can't, you can't force and terror to take away, with the noise, the position you're in. However, when you are so strong, so brave, so capable, so you found yourself, I must repeat it, while Kosovo is so threatened, while you are guessing and persecuting about it, that is, Kosovo, it is not selling "Karnexa" to the Canary Islands, it is not selling "sugar for three euros", it is not "sugarting in Zrenjanin" which is for the first time not burned, it is not paved roads and borrowing. You're boasting that you're in charge of Serbia with $13 billion. Children unborn will be charged, Serbs have fallen into debt slavery. If you are so sure don't take away the MPs' words, don't threaten the MPs, call the parliamentary elections, you will get the answer from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33632	The People's MP, the chairman, has nothing to do with the right of speech, but he has a speech content. Therefore, the right you win in the elections should be in content for the speaker to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word is by MP Joca Arsic, followed by MP Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33633	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Mrs Comic, after such bitter replicas and debates, it is difficult to concentrate on what is most important and important. Some gentlemen behind this pay phone have said that arguments are being sought for what we are talking about today, that no political debate is being held. It was precisely in the defence of Ms. Micic that mostly political speeches were made, and there was no talk about the arguments and violations of the Rules of Procedure. What I have in mind, and I can say that there's nothing personal, I've never been punished or warned, I haven't given a cause, I think that's the main reason, not the other. What I object to, and what I have arguments for, is that warning I did from this pay phone, that the law and the Rules of Procedure will be violated, the rest of them are deaf and the majority of the assembly and the president of the Assembly. It's about the next one. In the election of Governor Corra Udovici, the Law was broken, which was passed just before that. Article 28 of the Law predicted that someone who is an MP, a minister, who performs another public function, could not be a candidate for governor of the National Bank. That is clear in Article 28. Law on the election of governors of the National Bank and of the National Bank of Serbia. At that same session, after the vote and after the problematic quorum, that he was problematic wasn't just our warnings and asking for documents, to see if there were 126 on that day you can see from the record and the stenograms. Here clearly Mr. Rafaelovic pleaded before this assembly that he was not and did not vote on that day. So it was 125! Please, that's the fact that you're all deaf. The governor has not been legally elected, in addition to our objections to Ned and two of our MPs, etc. He's the one key that said that here at the pay phone. Everyone else is acting deaf to that fact. This is a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure and therefore no minutes have been adopted from that session, as the minutes do not correspond to the actual state of play. The second thing, in that same session, following the election of Governor Kori Udovici, National Assembly President, Mrs Natasa Micic tells us that Mrs Kori Udovici resigned and that she had resigned from Ms Kori Udovici, which was notified to the government and informed the Assembly. The memo had to arrive before and by law and by procedure and by the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Corri Udovicki's resignation had to be announced to the Assembly before the elections and voting. However, a procedural error was made and a broken Rules of Procedure and a broken Law. I think it's all in this stenogram from the July 22, 2003 session. You have no better argument for abuse of both the Law and the Rules of Procedure and everything that happened that day in the Serbian Parliament. I don't want to talk about any arbitrary stuff, I've brought out what stands for fact and as a document, about which there's both a record and what there's a stenogram about. Secondly, here we are accused of not cooperating, of not wanting to accept that some of the things that are urgent for Serbia are being discussed, of being destructive in this House. I ask you to inform Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic in the future of the fact and the true state. He accused us all here of not putting on the agenda a law on the protection of the living environment, the energy law, that we would not put the law on the railways. I remind you that the Law on the Environmental Protection System entered the procedure on 20.05.2002, that the Energy Act entered the procedure on 2.06.2003, that the Law on Railways entered into the procedure in this assembly on 20.03.2002, that in July the extraordinary session was the eighth item of the agenda, that you withdrew it. The railroad law you pulled, because it didn't come to debate and it wasn't the end of the agenda, you pulled it out of the session and we can't be responsible for it. Since 10 October 2003, the Act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has withdrawn the Law on Railways, the Law on the Agency for Foreign Investments, the Proposal for a Law on the Environment and the Proposal for a Law on Energy, at the request of the president of the Assembly, as it has expired more than 60 days since the date of submission, but it is not then in October. If you remember what I told you, that the laws have been in the procedure since February 2002, since March 2002, since June 2003, 60 days are much shorter. Within 60 days, pursuant to Article 134. Rules of Procedure, it is up to the government to withdraw if they are not placed on the agenda of this assembly. Who's supposed to take care of that? Who's supposed to return the timely laws? Who's supposed to do that? Normally not the opposition, normally not the opposition parties, but those parties that have authority and who can lead. The prime minister also said that we did not want to accept that there are points on the agenda such as: the Bill on the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, the Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Tax on the Fund, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. The Agency's Act and the establishment of a local self-government infrastructure agency were told to stand at 20m euros and that the money could not be operational because there is no law. Gentlemen, this law is on the agenda under the regular number of six of this session; the draft law on the termination of the Fund Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the 11th item of the agenda; the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement is the 14th point of the agenda, adopted by this assembly. The proposal tabled by the president of the Assembly for this meeting contained only ten points. This draft agenda has 16 points and six new points are included. The prime minister didn't mention it in his presentation, here's a stenogram and I can read you a stenogram, quote everything, didn't mention it, he mentioned only these three laws that weren't on the agenda because we didn't want to vote them out. I don't know if he understood or not, but he should have been informed. Don't lead him astray, there's no point in misleading the Prime Minister without telling him what's been adopted and what's on the agenda. These are some of the arguments that are sufficient to move the ball in this congregation to another, to blame the one who is not to blame for it, and to deliberately avoid facts and facts that make decisions in this congregation work in this way and in this way. I understand that the assembly majority can make a decision that today is Friday, but it's not, today is still Thursday. Many times we have led her astray by giving her, gentlemen and ladies, the support that has made her feel sovereign that she can make any decisions she wants, because she has the cover of you, and you are the most responsible because Mrs Natasa Micic has made these mistakes that I have spoken of.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33634	The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radet, another announcement. After that, the People's MP Petar Cvetkovic has the word. He's been in a row twice, and there's been a board meeting twice. When the letter finishes its presentation, then you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33635	A member of parliament here today said that MPs were on a case-by-case basis that Mrs Natasa Micic, acting as President of Parliament, violated the Constitution. I will now, dear colleagues, convince you otherwise. Mrs Natasa Micic, although a graduate lawyer, has allowed herself to chair an illegal and illegal National Assembly since 22 May 2002. As of that day, a group of unconscious citizens, including a university professor, Stevan Lilic, who has a judicial verdict that he is a plagiarist, has now resigned in legal error to the post of MP, and continues to function, thanks to Natasa Micic. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court, which Natasa Micic obviously does not intend to implement, and according to that decision, the Constitutional Court was obliged to allow the MPs to return to the stolen mandates. In this way, Mrs Natasa Micic participated in the electoral theft and termination of the election will of citizens. Another example of the election theft, conducted here by Natasa Micic, is the total illegal exclusion from the work of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's National Assembly, according to its interpretation for an indefinite period of time, i.e. until the end of this term. It is clear that Ms. Micic, by order of DOS politburo, intended to head the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Thank God, neither she nor anyone else is gonna make it. Mr Tomislav Nikolic is with us, although he is not in this room, as Professor Vojislav Seselj is with us, although he is currently in The Hague by decision of the DOS Politburo. Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that position 5. The Constitution says, "In the event of the end of the term of office of the President of the Republic before the time of election, elections for the new President of the Republic must be held within 60 days of the day of the end of the term of office of the President of the Republic." Paragraph 6 states: "If, for any reason, the President of the Republic is temporarily prevented from performing his duties, he is replaced by the President of the National Assembly." Mrs Natasa Micic has wronged both of these positions of Article 87. The Constitution. She usurped the post of Serbian President and has been performing the post completely counter-constitutional and totally against the law for a year. She also self-proclaimed the function of "executor of the office of the president of the state", and it is obvious that the Constitution does not foresee such a function. Performing the role of Serbian President Mrs Natasa Micic continued to violate the Constitution and continue to commit crimes that would surely cause Serbia to respond in accordance with the rules adopted in this assembly, either in this or in an earlier term. As President of the Republic, Ms. Natasa Micic has unconstitutionally and illegally imposed an emergency in Serbia. The result of the state of emergency, among other things, was that 12,000 citizens were unlawfully deprived of freedom. Each of these 12,000 citizens has a completely legitimate right to claim from the state of Serbia a fee of immaterial damage due to the unlawful deprivement of freedom. Would if someone asked for that compensation, Ms Natasa Micic would pay those citizens for it because they had come to the situation? When Mrs Natasa Micic said she "determined to make a decision to call presidential elections" in the means of information, she announced that she had talked to all relevant entities, related to the deadline, or the date of the vote. I wonder what the relevant subjects are, with whom Ms. Natasa Micic spoke - whether or not she spoke to Montgomery, whether or not she spoke to Soros, I know that she did not speak to the SRS, and should know that the president of the Assembly is the only relevant subject to the conversation, only the MPs and this National Assembly agree. Mrs. Natasa Micic, acting president of Serbia, received an official visit from George Soros and spoke to him, made his position clear to her about Kosovo, said his stand was on its own, and Mrs. Natasa Micic talked to him afterwards, took pictures with him and smiled in front of TV cameras. I know that this is the personal attitude of Natasha Micic and her personal attitude does not interest me, but as President of Parliament and President of Serbia, it must not have been foreclosed on itself and the Serbian radicals will certainly never forgive her. There was a lot of talk here about the existence or lack of quorum when deciding in this National Assembly. It's not a fact that this National Assembly has worked without a quorum for more than half of its time while it's being debated, and when it comes to decision-making, it's a really special story. We're all witnesses to the way the quorum was determined here. At the proposal of the representatives of some parliamentary group to establish the quorum, Mrs Natasa Micic looked at as all of us who watched fellow MPs insert the identification cards, instead of colleagues who were not there, she never reacted, she even smiled in a sense when she was distracted to look at it and mostly comment on it - so you don't do quorum when we need you to vote too. Is that the answer of the President of Parliament? When the Lustration Act was adopted here, ladies and gentlemen in this room was 91 people's MPs, the rest were MP cards. When the Law on the financing of political parties was passed, there were 81 MPs in this room, the rest were identification cards. All this and all that you heard today and yesterday during the debate is certainly sufficient reason for the MPs to plead in favour of our motion to resolve Natasha Micic from the post of National Assembly President. I hope most of them are really clear, and that is what they showed for this speaker that Natasa Micic is not worthy of these functions. Believe me, I am even convinced that she will vote for this proposal herself, as she voted to be Parliament's president. Once again, I call on my fellow Members, the MPs, to make a statement in the day to vote out our proposal and to understand all together that this decision is a commitment between Serbia and the DOS. Those who vote for Serbia will vote for the resolution of Natasa Micic, because this proposal has been submitted on behalf of Serbia to determine which alternative is too excellent in this National Assembly and I urge you to plead with DOS or Serbia by voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33636	National MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Soviet Parliament's group, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is the reason for the announcement, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33637	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, chairman of today's National Assembly session, approximately 15 minutes ago you seriously injured Article 104 of Item 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, at the same time, Article 89, paragraph 1 of the same Rules of Procedure. Namely, you gave a measure of distance from the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia to Mr Markovic, without having any legal reason to do so. On the other hand, I, as a member of the Administrative Committee who was sitting in the session session of this assembly, singled out my opinion on the decision of the Administrative Board on your request to give an opinion whether or not the injured Rules of Procedure had been or not, as I quoted Article 89(3), I had the right to explain why I had singled out my opinion and myself and other fellow Members who had also singled out their opinions. Unfortunately, the respected citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission have once again won the right in the Republic of Serbia. All those who swear for the rule of law, for legitimacy, for legality, and once again have shown how much in practice they really are for the rule of law, once again politics wins the right. Article 77 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, still valid, you apply it even though it is from some long time ago, but you gentlemen apply it when it suits you - in Article 77 of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in paragraph 2: a national MP cannot be called to responsibility, punishment, etc. for an opinion and vote in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like you to explain to me why you could say it a step away from Mr. Markovic's session. I know they're in fear of big eyes, there's a vote coming, every voice is important. Take your stenographic notes, see what we talked about six months ago, maybe you'll find a word and a sentence that can be taken under some member of the Rules of Procedure, so you can take us away. But know the remaining 10 SS MPs will be here for the vote and will vote for Mrs Natasa Micic's resolution and will vote for the fall of the worst government in the history of the statehood of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33638	The People's Messenger said the violation of the Rules of Procedure by which the measure of distance was expressed. The measure of distance is given to the MP without any measures previously spoken, in the event of a physical attack, or another similar procedure that threatens either the physical or moral integrity of the participants in the National Assembly building. Calling on a coup, calling on the police and security forces to break into institutions to carry out a coup, it is possible that some MPs can take it as humor or as sentences that he does not mean it seriously, but it is fun on a pay phone to say it. I can't interpret it like that and it's said, and I said it once before, those words rule it, and the measure of distance from the session was said for the work done by the MP. I said it was the most difficult measure that could be said in the Assembly and it is and is not simply said, but given the opinion of the Administrative Committee. You don't have the right to an individual opinion, something that is an opinion, an act that I received from the Administrative Board. I'll schedule, whether you ask for it or not, a session of the Administrative Board, where I pray to discuss whether you had the right to speak for 10 minutes, because as a member of the Administrative Board you didn't have the opportunity, because I didn't have the basis to give you my word. If you quote the Constitution, then quote it correctly. Article 77(2) says, "The MP cannot be called to criminal responsibility." Look at the stenogram, I said, "The People's MP, because of what was said for the pay phone, can't be called to criminal responsibility," but I warned that he couldn't even say about the pay phone what he said, "he can't be detained or punished for his opinion or voice in the National Assembly." If we want to quote it, then let's quote it correctly. You have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33639	Mrs. Comic, it was the responsibility of the chairman of the Administrative Committee to immediately tell me that I do not have the right to an opinion, and he literally said, "We are entering into the minutes a separate opinion of you and several other MPs who were present on the Administrative Committee." On the other hand, when you say that I am not a good quote of the Constitution, let me quote you, what you said, according to the stenographic notes, where you say, "People's MP, out of all the freedom of speech that can be heard for a pay phone, this is the most free and diverse freedom of speech and information to citizens and citizens of Serbia -- the MP cannot be called to account, and apparently neither responsible for what he says about the speaker of the National Assembly." Mrs. Comic, that's what you said. That's what the ladies or the ladies recorded, not me. I was just quoting what you said. Whether I interpret the Constitution well or not, it will show practice. I say, unfortunately, I'm a graduate lawyer with 25 years of work experience, I won a degree at Belgrade University, and I'm very sorry to hear some things that my son of 17 years can't believe, such as a few months ago, that a professor of law school, with 20 years of employment, finds himself in legal error. I'd like to see my own theory show that it's what civil law professors at law school find themselves in legal error when they resign or resign. So much for the law and the interpretation of the Constitution and other legal provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33640	National MP, I have already scheduled a session of the Administrative Committee to discuss your objection, because I want it to be clear and that the Administrative Board will give an explanation. Otherwise, your remark refers to the start of a law search, but the Administrative Committee will, in any case, consider it. To be clear, MP Dragan Markovic is not invited to any responsibility, he is being punished for violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The other institutions worry about responsibilities and we stay out of their business, we do our job. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33641	Mrs. Komic, you've been swearing to strict application of the Rules of Procedure all day, and I am now in a position to deny you. I tried to call you today, or I called about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you heard my colleagues comment on "identification cards where there are no MPs present", and then you beat me to it and asked the Assembly Office to pick up those cards. You're obviously protecting the irresponsible MPs of DOS, the ones who aren't in the O.R., who left their cards. Please act in accordance with Article 117. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, take a look at the third row.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33642	You're absolutely right. I ask the Office of the Assembly, and I ask all the presidents of the parliamentary groups, since it is easier for you to see when an MP gets up from the parliamentary bench and leaves a card, to intervene, because it is very difficult for me to hold a session and make sure that everyone has their rights and obligations and that I follow where the cards are. It does not say in the Rules of Procedure, it is a request for co-operation with the presidents of parliamentary groups. So, I ask the Service to pick up MP cards from all MPs' benches where MPs don't sit. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Zoran Angelkovic, and the People's Messenger Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33643	Ladies and gentlemen, this session has been held by the Administrative Board. At the Management Board, at the request of the chairman, the vice-president of the assembly, Mrs. Comic, it was discussed whether there were elements to move away from this session of Mr. Dragan Markovic. To my question whether this means that by the decision of the Administrative Committee that it has conditions to move away from the session of Dragan Markovic, that the President of the Assembly should determine only the time of departure, Bosko Ristic concluded that it is not so, that it is not possible for the chairman or president of the Assembly to determine the length of the sentence, but only the extent of the distance, and that the Administrative Board, if the chairman or chairman of the Assembly determines the extent of the punishment, should determine the length of the sentence. I'm not saying that the chairman hurt the Rules of Procedure, but then Bosko Ristic led us astray. Here are the MPs who were on the Administrative Committee. One of those two things is impossible. Either the Administrative Board has injured the Rules of Procedure or the Chairman has injured the Rules of Procedure. It would be good to get a report from the Administrative Board, so that Bosko Ristic, as chairman of the Committee, has announced what we have concluded and whether I have given the position of the Administrative Board well, so that on this basis we can be sure that this decision can be of full importance the moment when the chairman announced it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33644	The decision is important and you can see that situations are possible to be brought into legal error. The decision on distance has been made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 104(2) and the decision to which I have indicated the extent of Article 108(3). "The distance from the session referred to in Rule 104(2) of this Rules of Procedure shall be applied for the next 90 days of the session from the day of the distance. "The previous two positions of the same member in 108 say, firstly: "Measures of reminders and confiscation of words shall be applied for a session at which they are spoken"; second position: "The distance measure shall be applied for the next 20 days of the meeting (work) of the National Assembly, from the day of the distance, or at the session at which this measure is given, if the session takes longer than 20 days of the session (work) of the National Assembly". Since I said that the distance measure was given on the basis of Article 104(2), then the third position of Article 108 is applied. Otherwise, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly must be respected, of course both on working bodies and at the already scheduled session of the Administrative Committee, and it will be debated whether you have been brought into legal error by the act of the President of the Administrative Committee or not. It is a fundamental right and the obligation of the chairman to determine it. National MP Dejan Mihaylov, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33645	Not entering what Dragan Markovic-Palma said, which is certainly for the conviction and what is a crime, in itself and not an MP, which he would have had to answer for, because calling for violent destruction of the constitutional order, the state order is something that is punishable. No one has the right to find an excuse for such a thing, especially if it is done by an MP who should protect this same state order, and to fight for the elections in another way, as we do in this assembly all these days, and this is the debate on the resolution of the President of the Assembly and the debate on confidence of the Government. That's exactly what we're gonna do. In addition to this fence, I would just like to say this: this measure has been fully retroactively said, that the President of the Assembly gives a measure at the sitting itself and it does not appear anywhere that the Administrative Board has, until now, been not the case, which suggests that certain measures be imposed and that he is the one who determines that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done. It's the first time it's done that. We now have one retroactivity. The question is, how long can this retroactivity go down, given that it's not regulated, and that we can now, somewhere since January 2001, take out all the injuries that have occurred, bury the Administrative Board, and ask for a measure of distance for all of them. So, the president of the Assembly at the session, under his full responsibility, because he has a discretionary right, without any consultation with the Administrative Board, is expressing a measure of distance from the session. It's something that's a fact, and there's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure that I'd like the Management Board to declare. The second thing, if the board of directors had already made a statement about it and the MPs had issued an opinion, should be allowed to do so, and you yourself said that this was an important matter and that this decision was very difficult to make, then it was necessary for the MPs who had granted an opinion to allow, simply to have that opinion, the reasons why they had given their opinion, to bring it before this assembly. We have come into one situation that the majority minority is founded by disputing MPs from the Assembly. You have expelled Tom Nikolic, Dragan Markovic - Palma has been expelled and you mean from your minority to make a majority, since everything breaks in one or two votes, so you want to try to buy a majority in this assembly and preserve power. You in this way...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33646	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. I warn MP Milka Marinkovic, MP Milan Milosavljevic, not to throw from the bench, as well as MP Dragan Ljubojevic. Please let's start looking the way you say it while you're at the pay phone at the session. You can't say one thing about a pay phone, but you can say it in a bench to behave differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33647	So this breach of the Rules of Procedure that you have made, which aims to buy the majority to vote in favour of Natasa Micic and the Serbian government, is nothing more than an attempt to undo the will of citizens, an attempt to exclude six million citizens from parliamentary life in Serbia, six million voters who are not behind you. That's how you go and work against yourself. I ask that the Administrative Board plead on this breach of the Rules of Procedure, given that this is the most serious threat to the right of opposition and this is violence against the opposition to question the government's trust. If you continue to cast us out, you can cast us all out and rule forever, since there will be no one to question the question of trust in the government and this congregation. Reasons, of course, you can find them. I overstepped one minute of the time you gave me, because they were throwing me away, but you can say, that's enough to be away from the session, since I don't respect the National Assembly or anything like that. So this is one violence that will only result in your trust and your resignation being requested elsewhere, because you're forcing us to work past the institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33648	Three minutes and 30 seconds, and the clock shows four minutes and 20 seconds, because you were interrupted. That's the only reason you have the right to speak for three minutes. So, I'm counting on the time spent on it when you're interrupted by the Rules of Procedure and being dropped by the chairman. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The sentence is given at the session. It is not true that this is the first time that the Management Board has been consulted on the distance measure from the session. This is the second time. Whether or not it is written in the Rules of Procedure, that such a heavy measure should not be left at the will of the chairman or chairman, it will be a practice, because it should be discussed, whether or not it should be taken away. Every MP should not violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and especially not in such a difficult way as MP Dragan Markovic, so there is no reason to be punished, and especially not in such a difficult way. Your request will be discussed on the Administrative Board, but my answer is that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure in any of the speeches. Proposer? No, I don't. ) Have any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups reported for a word or replica? National MP Petar Cvetkovic. National MP Petar Cvetkovic was in order before noon, one was scheduled and another session of the Administrative Committee. He has now replaced the post with MP Zoran Micovic, but we had another round of replicas. I'm sorry, Mr. Cvetkovic, really. You have 52 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33649	Please, Mrs. Comic, allow me to begin. Given that I am a member of the Administrative Committee, which has issued an opinion, I will start with the Administrative Committee. I am free to say that the composition, that is, of this Administrative Committee that is sitting today, and of the Decision and the opinion later, is totally illegal. Why? It does not correspond to the assembly, or to the number of MPs in this assembly, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. I'll remind you -- last July, the DSS had three members of the Administrative Committee, next to me and Mr. Jocic and Mr. Budishin. After withdrawing the mandate to the DSS, a group of 20 and several, other persons were inserted into the Administrative Committee. Following the decision of the Constitutional Court and the return of the term of office, it is not respected that the rules of procedure of the Rules of Procedure, and in this case the Administrative Committee, corresponds to the composition of the Assembly, i.e. the number of parliamentary groups. Why am I pointing this out? Because the Administrative Committee, and I call freely here, has no Mr. Bosko Ristic, headed by Mr. Bosko Ristic, turned into one body for the protection of characters and works, and in this case one or another official of the president of the assembly or president of the DOS group. That is why there have been such decisions, where, in a huge case, that is, whenever the legal situation has been disputed, with a simple raise of hands, and where there are a dozen of 15, and 11 are members of the Administrative Committee from the rest of the DOS group, that is, from that parliamentary group, simply by overruling the decisions made. These decisions were not in any way related to the Rules of Procedure or to the law or legality, and the decisions were literally the terror of the majority over the minority. So in the Administrative Committee, and in this assembly, in this House. The decision to evict, or distance from Parliament of Mr Markovic, makes it so impossible for one MP representing a number of residents, a number of voters in Serbia, to express their opinion. Whether that is 20 or 25 thousand, the goal is also to reduce the number of MPs who would vote in favour of mistrust, i.e. the president's shift and the government's shift. That is how it can continue, as Dejan Mihajlov, president of our parliamentary group, can continue until the required majority. I'll talk about this later on about Parliament's composition, but I'll end up with this so I don't get a warning. I'll finish what I've given my opinion for, reading the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are very clear. No need to be a lawyer, no need to be a legal expert from DOS. It speaks clearly for itself and it is inadmissible to retroactively apply the law, according to the President-in-Office's discretionary right. We cannot agree here, because discretionary law is something else, and here is the obligation under the Rules of Procedure to give a measure if there is a certain legal situation, i.e. a violation of order and peace, or, a mistake, order and peace, could nevertheless be a violation of order or a demeaning of any speaker or assembly. Rules of Procedure, i.e. Rule 104(2). - requested by the chairman, i.e. Vice-President of the Assembly of Ms. Komic, an interpretation, that is the provision of the Rules of Procedure, because it was obviously the intention to apply the provision of Article 2 of Article 104 to Mr. Markovic, regardless of what was the warning after Mr. Markovic's first and second presentations, and then the warning. Mr Markovic has been punished under Article 102, paragraph 1, and that is, indent 2, 4 and 6 if he uses curses and offensive expressions. If it occurred to anyone, Mr. Pajtić, you've been called, Mr. Pajtić's thought that because he gave his opinion, the idea came up, I'll be more specific to Mr. Pajtić that he can, regardless of what he has already said to Article 104, exclude Mr. Markovic from his future vote. Article 104 paragraph 2 reads: "The distance measure from the session can be given to the MP and without any measures previously expressed, in the case of a physical attack", underlining "in the case of a physical attack, or another similar procedure", another similar procedure to a physical attack, "which endangers the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session, in the building of the National Assembly. "I will not go on about it, it is quite clear that in this case because of the opinion expressed for this speaker there can be no punishment. However, Mrs. Comic said earlier that Mr. Markovic was being punished. The Constitution says there can be no punishment, but this distance from the session, you may not consider it a reward. I objectively see that this is a punishment, and not only an MP, it punishes 20 or 25 thousand citizens of Serbia who have given one of the MPs the opportunity to represent the views and opinions of those citizens. In any case, this is a punishment, and the Constitution says that the apostle for what he has said for this speaker cannot follow the punishment. That's why I singled out my opinion, however, because most of the rest of the DOS just gave up. She raised her hands and voted differently, but this is necessary to say, because of MPs who are not familiar with the process and the result of the vote on the Administrative Committee, and because of the citizens of Serbia who will understand this fully and in the right way, I hope without any dispute that is in this assembly, or this session. We, ladies and gentlemen, these days, especially last night and today, heard various speeches, various political speeches. There were revolutionary speeches with a certain dose of hysteria. There were many more of these speeches than essential speeches, which is why the president of the Serbian Parliament should be changed. These revolutionary speeches, these revolutionary ideas I can understand and can easily interpret because there are Marks, there are political schools amongst others and Kumorovac. It is much harder to understand that one in democracy is a very ordinary phenomenon, a everyday phenomenon, a change in one official, a change in the president of the Assembly, or a change in the entire government, I will not remind Italy and last year, that it creates a "be or not" position for the whole state, that one individual, one natural person is equal to the whole state and not only the state, but democracy. That the shift, or change of one person, is put in place as a priority of the activity of political action. Why did that happen? It is precisely because, among other things, the President of the Assembly is here, and much more so than others whose trust we will only talk about in the second, third points of this agenda, because precisely because of their behaviour, I am talking about the Parliament of Serbia, too, to bring all political activities, all the right democratic attitudes, to absurdity. We have brought to the absurdity today the work of the Administrative Committee, the envisaged Rules of Procedure and the measures set out in this Rules of Procedure. In this way, the basic thread of responsibility is the bearer of these public functions, and that is why one and the important reason why it is necessary to change the president of the National Assembly. We are today especially those who have tried their own, understood, revolutionary speeches, high political ideas and rallying in this room, have indicated that we have no concrete objections to the unconstitutional opposition or the counter-work of Mrs. President of the Assembly. That's what they said and survived. We have concrete remarks, we have so many objections if it's possible that at least a few days if I had all the materials, but I have some in my head and some in front of me. We will begin whether this parliament is legitimate and how many MPs this Parliament has, or how the President of the Assembly applied the Constitution. We don't have another constitution. When they did not respond, they told them it was Milosevic's constitution, when they responded to the constitution, and the result was that the only goal was to extend their power and privileges as far away as possible, to avoid what was inevitable, to avoid early parliamentary elections. Here is an example, here is the minutes from the session of the National Assembly held on 10 December 2001 starting at 10.45 p.m., and the session is chaired by Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly. The agenda started, and at one point in the vote, Ms. Micic said, "Mr. Nikolic, it is true that the Constitution provides for the National Assembly to have 250 MPs. Article 82. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly say that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly if more than half of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. "It's all right, the interpretation is fully in line with the Constitution, and the Constitution says so, and with the Rules of Procedure, however, it goes on "to inform you that the total number of MPs in the National Assembly is 248." You see now the Constitution has been changed without the procedure for changing the Constitution. I wouldn't say this is an interpretation, because 250 can't be interpreted in 248. This is a change, probably a reform constitution. He says, I continue - 248 MPs in the National Assembly, since two mandates have been suspended, so the quorum for the work of 125 MPs. Bravo! And nothing to anyone. Good President, respect the Constitution. Cooperative with the government. Here we are. Last night, the prime minister, Mr. Zivkovic, stood up in the defence of the government and, by the way, said that Mrs. Natasa Micic was the president of the Assembly very cooperative and that she was conducting a common policy, approximately so, it was not possible in those words, but he said so. I was paraphrasing, I was free. Look, if that's the case, and I have no reason not to trust Mr. Zivkovic... Well, that's the basic reason why it needs to be replaced. For all beginners, and especially the professors of the Faculty of Law, however, sometimes fall into legal delusions, it is clear to all beginners that the basis of democracy is to divide power into legislative, judicial and executive. Right? And you agree, Mr. Novakovic. Well, if so, then it must not be the executive authority to dominate the legislative authority, because all three pillars of government must, you know, but to remind you, you know about others, but not in your behavior. So, if that's understandable, then it's incomprehensible that one of these authorities, executives, controls, controls, regulates, says it's going to work by a legislative authority that chooses that executive power and under the Constitution should exercise its control. And that everything is fine, that Mrs. Micic did not write a new reform constitution, as I said, this was reason enough to come to the shift. This is a sufficient reason, since, in addition to what the judicial authority, this very assembly, through the draft law, amendments and the draft laws proposed by that government, has completely put the judicial authority under the control of the executive authority, thus putting this parliament, or the legislative authority, under control. I heard a pitch. Yes, it was a proposal of the Democratic Party of Serbia, from the domain of the judiciary, that you well remembered, but after that, you forgot that there were four amendments and additions where government or you, as representatives of the DOS, and one good law, I hear a throwout, literally mutilated, I apologize for the dictionaries. It is, therefore, no longer the Law, but the Law that allows direct influence and control of the judicial authority. We won't talk about prosecutors, how you control them, because that's not the topic of the agenda. I'm risking my warning. So much for which support is enjoyed by the government and by Mr. Prime Minister. So much about it and there's no logic except for you known logic that a simple change of speaker, in the West say the speaker, the President of the Assembly did have powers under the Rules of Procedure or by the Law and the Constitution, but these are not important powers, so much so that it could change, that this revolutionary idea they're carrying out, "reform-revolutional idea". The change of speaker, or head of parliament, in all democracies, is one normal and everyday thing. You want to exercise a clean authoritarian authority under a democracy firm and therefore mention the elections, threaten the elections, and there is no choice. Now I hear, if there is a vote of mistrust, it will, you will see, however, and then you will find a solution to extend your power, unfortunately and Serbia's agony. When I said it was the President of Parliament who, according to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and the law, and you know it and you will agree with me, that it is the President of Parliament who should treat all MPs equally, you will agree, I will discuss it a little later, but here I can ask you about it -- who is a member of the ruling majority of DOS, now the ruling minority, a member of the DOS Parliament club was punished for being thrown away very often and very distasteful. We'll get to that particular case, and that's what happened tonight. You might as well give me, Madam Chairman, a warning, because I've been plowing with those who earn. But it's impossible to avoid the controversy when they're trying in every way to get and get out of the context of the speakers. I'd like a glass of water, if you don't mind. I'm talking about the composition of this National Assembly. I would like to see one dictate the composition of the National Assembly, because it definitely looks now, we have found that there are 250 MPs again. Remember, it was 248 and 308, now it's 250 again, but what are those persons, who are MPs in this assembly, it's hard to determine. Why is this congregation and the composition of this congregation illegal? In that part, I must remind you of 2002 and the decisions that followed by the withdrawal of the term of office of a number of MPs, where Mrs. President also had little merit and influence, if anything else, according to Mr. Zivkovic, was co-operative. On 11 June 2002, a request was submitted to the Administrative Committee for the removal of 22 MPs for exclusion from the political coalition and for the resignation of 14 MPs, which decided not to respect the resignation of one MP, although he did not resign. Remember, it wasn't long ago, he made a decision to take on the role of MPs. The other MPs, 13 resignations were respected, and the mandate was taken from the coalition by 22 MPs because of the exclusion. They're DSS MPs. On the next day, on June 12, 2002, the president of the National Assembly read the finding that the mandate was being rings by 35 MPs, but failed to determine what was in everything its jurisdiction, the date on which the MPs were suspended. The result is that there was an unknown date when 35 MPs were suspended, hence, and since, from which day, the assembly was amended. It follows that the Republic Election Commission granted 35 new MPs' mandates, also on June 12th 2002, and on the same day, the Administrative Committee verified the mandates. Neither the Republic Election Commission nor the Administrative Committee established the date on which the new 35 MPs received their mandates. It is no longer known either the date of the end of the term of office for the old or the date of the start of the term of office for the new MPs. Twenty-one MPs who were suspended from office on 11 June 2002 for exclusion from the coalition submitted a constitutional appeal to the federal constitutional court. The Federal Constitutional Court annulled the act of the Administrative Committee, but not to delay, the Administrative Board found out about the decision, which did not exist legally, because it was not published, so before the entry into force of that decision it had put its act into effect since 11 June. That act, I recall, established the end of the mandate of 22 MPs due to the exclusion from the coalition. Sir, the topic is the conduct of the President of the Assembly on the removal and return of the mandate and the establishment of the number of MPs in this assembly. This return, the withdrawal of office, created a state, remember last year, that no one alive knew, and the paper made fun of how many MPs there were in this assembly, which is the number of MPs. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs were not invited to one specific number of meetings, some other, reserve MPs were invited. Remember when MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia began to be invited those others were somewhere in the reserve. It's all by the Constitution, what you'd say. The call for a assembly meeting since 5 November 2002 has temporarily solved all problems. The president of the National Assembly did not call for a meeting of any MP who gained the mandate by replacing 35 MPs, but urged all MPs whose mandate had been suspended because of the exclusion from the coalition, regardless of whether they had been expelled once or twice, and 13 MPs whose term had ceased because of his resignation. Addressing the problem of the extra MPs does not call for a meeting is a precedent in our parliamentary practice. The precedent is that the mandate of 35 MPs ceased by not calling for a congregation meeting. You will agree that this certainly does not enter into possible constitutional and legal reasons for the termination of the term of office, nor is any law or constitution provided for. It is completely unclear what law or moral principle gave the president of the National Assembly the right to revive the 13 MPs who resigned. What is the basis of this reunion? What is the reason for the resignation of the deputies who replaced them? There's no basis. Thus, the National Assembly worked all the way from June to November 5, 2002 in an assembly that was against the law. Do you think it's my fault? The composition has been amended on 5 November 2002 and some of the conditions have been granted, but I will remind you that this will continue to be a subject, we have a new decision of the Constitutional Court and a request from the seven MPs, a completely legal and legitimate request, for the return of the term of office. You'll be kind, sir, to stop throwing, and I'd like to ask the deputy president, Mrs. Comic, to warn those of the Democratic Party that they are tolerant. I don't throw away, and I'm willing to get a ticket for every throw. Are these the only reasons? No! No! There are many more reasons! Let's start from something closer, 'cause I see you forgot about this last year. Since 14 October 2003, as someone said, Mrs. President of the Assembly has not respected her call, so she has not responded to her call. She scheduled a session of the Assembly at 10.00 hours and after the nine-hour wait, the Vice-President said that due to the expiry of time, and she was authorised to declare it, the session will not be held, but will be held two days later, or 16 October. Do you think that this behavior on October 14th was not and is not sufficient reason for someone else to be president of this House? The reason for the nine-hour wait for alleged consultations is enough in itself to get to the president's shift and it is sufficient for all those who are trying to in any way, and especially with these revolutionary speeches, to prevent, or to throw out MPs, to prevent the vote of mistrust. What I would like to point out was that there was an objection by the president of the parliamentary clubs to the violations of the Rules of Procedure which took place on 16 October when the session finally began. There have been objections to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I will not bother you with the provisions of these Rules of Procedure, but the ruling majority has normally assessed through the Administrative Committee who, as I said, has a large majority, has estimated that there has been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Nothing happened, all day long the MPs sat in the assembly for nine hours, and no one informed them, although it was according to the Rules of Procedure and to postpone the session and to have a session run by another person, an authorised vice president, and he could have appointed one of the vice presidents to hold a session!- I'm sorry. Simply, on all arguments, the Management Board at its session has declared that there has been no injury and everything is fine, everything is as a rule, enough to have a majority on that committee. On this occasion, the Committee held a statement on the request of the National Assembly president whether not to adopt the minutes produced some legal consequence. The call for failure to adopt a number of minutes was apparent and problematic. The main problem is not to adopt the minutes in the election of governors of the National Bank and of the Council. There was once again a representation of a completely legally unsustainable and anti-constitutional position, and so the Administrative Committee simply voted in favour, which you probably found out. I don't know if that's what we MPs are informed about, that non-compliance with the minutes does not produce any consequence. So, all those allegations that there was no quorum to decide when the governor's election, the statements of the MPs behind this speaker, Mr. Rafaelovic, were not there, and that his card was used - is not valid! Simply, it has passed, there must be no record, it is published in "The Official Messenger", regardless of the publication of one single act, or individual concrete decision, the publication in "The Official Messenger" does not produce exactly that legal fact, because on the day of the vote, on the day of the possible election, the decision comes into force, rather than by publication. The publication in the "officer" produces consequences only in the adoption of laws and other general decisions. Does this mean that in the future this congregation will not have to adopt a single record and that there are no legal consequences? I don't think so! The failure to accept the minutes from the session at which Mrs. Korry was widowedly elected governor of the National Bank is just proof and an attempt to prove to those who do not want to hear the facts, or to apply the right, that there was no quorum and that the decision could not be made, or that it was not made. Speaking of the anti-constitutional and opposite Rules of Procedure of the President of the Assembly, I would like to remind the DSS that, through the mandated proposal, Mr Dejan Mihajl made a proposal to supplement the agenda with three decisions, before the proposal for a decision to put aside the findings of the National Assembly on the termination of the mandate of the Members of Parliaments, adopted on the basis of Article 88(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. The second proposal for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and the third proposal for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia. The president of the Assembly on this proposal by the DSS, you understood why he followed this proposal, because it was obvious that he did not wish to execute the Supreme Court's decision, i.e. the legal views of the Constitutional Court - decisions were taken, for example, by the Administrative Board, that the Administrative Board would initiate the procedure for the return of the term of office for the seven Members who so requested. It then went from Administrative to this, according to that, and then at one session, the Administrative Committee concluded that he should not do anything, no jobs, because here are three former MPs who demanded through the Constitutional Court the execution of the Constitutional Court's decision, and given the constitutional court's legal views where it is doubtless that the decision should be carried out by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or this Parliament, the DSS submitted a motion for a decision, which would solve and execute the Constitutional Court's decision, and definitely this parliament was in line with the 2000 elections. So, at that point, regardless of what faces they were and whether it corresponds to the government or to the ruling minority or to the majority, Parliament's composition would be completely legal and legitimate and would not be questioned by its decision. No, it was not intended to honour the Constitutional Court's decision, even though at the time of its adoption it corresponded to the Government and the rest of the DOS. Then, from their adoption to this day, it has turned into something else, something that does not suit them, because they assume these seven MPs will vote against these proposals, or vote for the removal of the President of Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so they simply avoid and refuse to implement the Supreme Court decision. On this proposal by the DSS, Madam President of the National Assembly gave a notice to Mr. Dejan Mihajlov, saying here stands - Mr. Dejan Mihajlov, that is a notice, above the stands of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the number, the date of October 13th. If this is a legal act to be adopted in the National Assembly, it should be called to the provisions of the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, anyway. I think it was supposed to be called to article 133. The Rules of Procedure, if she felt that the proposal should be complemented in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, there is no such thing, so this is either a notice or a semi-private memo, I cannot help but understand this, where it stands - on your proposal of 10 October 2003, I suggest that your proposals for decisions of the 1-3 National Assembly will not be made clear for the following reasons: 1) The proposal for a decision to put out of effect the findings of the National Assembly on the termination of the term of office will not be put forward because, according to Article 69. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 2 of the first indent of the term of office shall be within the jurisdiction of the Administrative Board of the National Assembly, and the findings of the National Assembly shall be the consequences of certain acts of that Committee and shall not be put out of force. Article 69 regulates the jurisdiction of the Administrative Board, and it was justified to indicate the violation of Mr. Dejan Michael's Rules of Procedure, the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the provisions of Articles 86 and 79, and not to point to legal facts, I will be aware that the objections to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure have been established, but I will remind you, those who do not know, and especially the citizens of Serbia who were the reasons of the Administrative Committee that there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Assembly is obliged to return the draft law, if it does not correspond, all the elements provided for and laid down by the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to the amendment. In that sense, Mrs Micic felt she could be called to that provision and return, but Mrs Micic, probably under the authority of the Administrative Board, because such an attitude was taken on the Administrative Board, she approached the interpretation of the Constitution and the law, so she estimated that such proposals had the right to not put on the agenda, because they were not in accordance with the Constitution, or law. This directly injured the Rules of Procedure, because there is no possibility under the Rules of Procedure, and at least that the President of the National Assembly should be empowered to bring or interpret the Constitution. In particular, I have to point out something else that's being interpreted here on one side or the other, it's abuse of cards. Here's a concrete example of when at a session on June 25th, 2003, it came to the conclusion that when the vote was used, the identification card was used, so here it stands, which belongs to National Assembly President Natasa Micicic, who voted on the stenogram and was not present here. The interpretation was given a card must always stand at the counter. But the interpretation is arbitrary, because you can see that now there is no card, and the electronic system is still working. The President's card is in the front row now. So she voted, and she wasn't there, or she was holding the quorum. To such a finding, which is quite clear, the opinion of the Administrative Committee was that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. These injuries were significantly higher. I think this much on my side is enough and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33650	The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33651	Ladies and gentlemen, I have two proposals regarding Article 81. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly: The first proposal to continue today's work until the debate is over, given that there is little time left for discussion. The second proposal is to respect a member of the 81st or working week of the Assembly, to work on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, not to cut down on working days. This is because the SRS parliamentary group wants this debate, as well as the debate on the government's confidence as soon as possible, to complete the vote, to know what we are on and that we can continue to work normally, and that DOS lawmakers stop commenting that we who have tabled these proposals insist and delay the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33652	As for the proposal to declare the extension of today's working time, it's 115 on the electronic system, but we'll check the quorum and put it to the vote. As for your second proposal, that's where you knock on the open door. The assembly will be on Tuesday at 10.00, so it will be, so there's no reason for us to make a special statement. Please determine if we have a decision-making quorum. I realize we have a quorum to work with, but we don't have a quorum to decide on, so we can't put it to a vote. And before the hours run out, although not usual, we will continue the session on Tuesday 28 October at 10.00 hours. That's understood. National MP Dragan Marscani throws out the bench and asks why not Monday. Because it says in the Rules of Procedure that the Assembly is working on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays and because the Assembly has rejected the proposal for MPs to be different. I'm giving you a warning about throwing you off the bench, no matter how imaginative it is. The People's MP, Dejan Mihajlov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33653	I just wanted to repeat my proposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33654	People's MP, I'm sorry, we don't even have a quorum for work right now, by the electronic voting system, but I think there should be 84 MPs, and I'd like to ask the present MPs to insert the cards. Thank you. Here you go, MP, and once again, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33655	I would also like this empty hall to show who is holding down reform laws, given that this session is boycotted by the very ones who advocate that this assembly is doing as much and as quickly as possible. If someone asks why the Assembly does not work, why will the reform laws come later on the agenda - so let the citizens see whose benches are empty. They're empty DOS benches. I wanted to suggest one thing: that this congregation works on Mondays and Fridays and that we speed up the work of this congregation. If we already have so much work to do, let us make our contribution, not to the DOS benches, when they do not have a minority at the moment, even with the withdrawal of the mandate, and by removing and dissipating from the session, to obstruct the work of this assembly and not allow decisions to be made, in order to make the work of this Assembly more efficient. If you thought we were going to sit here and listen to Natasha Micic for the last 10 minutes, you're wrong. We're going to go out, so we're not going to give her a chance to speak in front of this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-23-0.u33656	The MPs leaving the hall during the session must decide whether they will respect the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly or not. I ask all members of the Parliament present to work on their working hours until 6:00 and present to insert their cards. The SRS has an urgent meeting, which is why it has to leave the room, and the DSS parliamentary group is leaving the room because it doesn't want to work. I ask the Members of Parliament to determine whether there is a quorum, as this is only happening as a notification to the MPs present, but it is also happening in direct transmission, and I ask you that, acting under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Members of Parliament present put their cards in identification units, to formally determine whether there is a quorum for work and if not, that the working time of the Assembly for today should be completed and continued on Tuesday 28 October. I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to work with. With thanks to the MPs present for their presence at the end of their working hours, we are finishing our work for today. The session continues on Tuesday, October 28th. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. According to official records, 121 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly and we continue our work. I am informing the National Assembly of the absence of the MPs. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Marijan Risticevic, Petar Misic, Dragan Kovacevic; MP Predrag Stojanovic, will be late for the morning part of the session. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, the Vice-President, the Ministers and the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL FOR THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA Mr. MIĆić (sumption) On Thursday, last week, ended at 17 hours and 50 minutes due to the lack of quorum. Prior to that, they sought, as a replica, MP Bojan Pajtic, a replica to the presentation of MP Petar Cvetkovic. The basis for the replica is the mention of the parliamentary group and the political party. Here you go. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic.
