ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32319	This amendment requires that Article 14 be deleted. A bill of law for a few reasons. The first reason is that this intervention, which is proposed, comes down to measures to confiscate goods in the course of tax control, is now transformed into measures during tax controls, and the essential measure is the confiscation of goods. This is what the reform text of this law says, and this proposal is a reform of the reform law, and in addition to these measures of confiscation of goods, the measures of confiscation of business books, records and other business documents are prescribed, until the tax controls are completed. Something like that is dangerous, because it can be a source of abuse, rather than a means of efficiency of tax control. The withdrawal of this document is practically a deterrent to the economic activity of the taxpayer controlled by the tax authority. This intervention, i.e. Article 14. The bill also proposes to introduce a new option, a new authority to the tax inspector, that the means for automatic data processing should be subtracted from the taxpayer, if he suspects that something is not in the work of tax accounting. This basically means that after what happened at Schiller's, when the building was destroyed, computers were taken to get some data, simply next to the police, if this was adopted as proposed, those same powers were given to tax inspectors, so they could take away information systems, and in the case of major retail trade, they were "post systems", they were all computer combinations. No inspection authority is authorized to do so, because he does not have that kind of authority to hold back a controlled person in business as well. A team before we know how long tax control can take. Obviously, these changes and this Article 14 are a function of abuse, not a function of correct tax control. An example is, for example, and I have already mentioned this, that the business space of the Vrachar municipality is charging its lease through the tax authority. So, a lease that a public company cannot charge, which is a clean bond, they send one paper to the tax authority and the tax authority takes off a jury account, i.e. the current account of the tenant. This abuse combined with this abuse given to the amendments to this law may also mean a blockade, for example, political parties, a radio-television station that uses the leased space and is late to pay the rent. This is to be taken into account, and this confirmation of the temporary confiscation of these funds and objects essentially means nothing, because we also have in criminal proceedings a certificate that is temporarily taken away from certain items, so I would remind you of a famous certificate that has not even been issued, which is a certificate that was reportedly taken away by the jeep for some criminal procedure. There is no criminal procedure and, of course, a criminal case against Dusan Mihajlovic has been blocked. As far as we can see, but the abuse of official position is in place and that the request for an investigation couldn't bear fruit, there are days, it doesn't get old so fast. We'll solve everything, but it's important that there's always a change in the reasons why something was temporarily taken away. Once upon the order of the OSCE, and for the second time at William Walker's request, the third time was not conducted by a criminal procedure, the fourth time was led by a criminal offence, but everyone who was of course a suspect was amnesty and released. In order not to happen now and the tax authorities, encouraged by the collapse of the entire building to provide a tape and some computer data on illegal traffic, so that this would not be misused in a tax sense, we ask that this amendment be accepted, that article 14 be deleted, because it is a source of greater abuse than the benefits that can be reported to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32320	People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32321	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected the applicant of this amendment to particularly explain this final position of Article 14, bearing in mind that he can produce extremely large negative facts based on the keeping of books and tax records by taxpayers, and to that end I came forward, as Minister Djelic is not there, and I think this issue should indeed be resolved. The practice in Serbia is such that mostly specialised agencies or individuals keep business books for one or more entrepreneurs, or one or more businesses. The smaller number of cases is that the taxpayers themselves run book affairs and complete documentation, given that this is indeed responsible, large and very significant work, and also a number of legal regulations affecting that not every taxpayer can follow all changes in the rules in the field of tax policy, finance, accounting and everything else. Take one specific example: The business agency, or agency, runs books for five taxpayers. The last point reads: "If the taxpayer of a business book and records referred to in Article 37 of this Act leads to means of automatic data processing, the tax inspector may, with confirmation, suspend the means for automatic data processing until the tax control process is completed." What does that mean? If four taxpayers of five, as far as the agency is going, the agency itself, or the owner of the agency, manages and pays all taxes and orderly documentation, if not by one taxpayer, whom you will withdraw the funds on which the remaining records are kept. So, you're going to take away someone who's properly keeping records, documentation and paying taxes under the law. So, the agency that performs this activity, neither guilty nor debt will be sanctioned and will be temporarily devoid of resources to work. That is why I think Minister Djelic should, and I appeal to MPs here and to the parliamentary majority, that this amendment should be accepted until this issue is resolved. So, can you, as a tax inspector or a financial inspector, be able to take away someone's means of work, even though he properly fulfils his tax obligations and keeps proper documentation for all taxpayers who serve, not entering into the essence, which is why this member here is foreseen. So, just for unwitting taxpayers, those who don't settle or cooperate with the IRS. Finally, I would like to ask one question about the amendment to Article 22, which was accepted here by the government, I really well-intentionedly suggest, I ask the question, given that this amendment was accepted by the Government and by the Government's representative. When was this amendment taken and submitted to the Assembly? All amendments were filed under a certain period of time, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, and even an amendment to the Mamula MPs who were seduced at 17.40 p.m., and the debate opened on this issue at 17.45 p.m. on July 3rd, so Thursday. My question is: did Mr Pajtic, as an applicant for the amendment, submit an amendment before the debate was opened or later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32322	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP Verica Radeta, MP Djordje Mamula and joint MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and Rade Bajic submitted. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32323	Both this law and this Article 16, whose eradication I am on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group has been requested by the amendment, are the more reason why this government and this assembly majority will remain black-lettered in Serbia's history. This entire article 135, which is being amended by Article 16 of this Act, is completely unconstitutional and, of course, because of that, is unconstitutional and this law. Article 135, which is now a member of the 16th member, provides for the formation of a parapolitan force. I am sorry that Minister Djelic is not here, I assume that after the argument I will make he would accept this amendment, because it will be he who will be responsible before some of the Hague courts, because he forms a parapolitic force in Serbia. This is already a practice, this is the second law where you vote that police work is done by unauthorized persons. You did that when it comes to organising sports events, like now, when it comes to tax returns. Because of this article, among other things, the law, which you will surely adopt, is completely inadmissible. This rule of law is inapplicable. I'm asking you, who is this tax officer who's going to show up at some independent store or a small company, who's going to try to act as an inspector, or as an M.O.P. inspector or a police officer. First question, will that man come with a weapon? The second question, in which way will the one who comes to the door wait for him? The police are the only ones who have the authority to deprive citizens of freedom. What is provided for in Article 16 is also an opportunity to deprive citizens of their freedom and it is unconstitutional. After the "Sabbe" action, in which you have unconstitutionally and illegally deprived the freedoms, you are now trying to also legalize these totally unconstitutional actions. I'm telling you, this member is inadmissible and there will be terrible repercussions in the field. There will certainly be physical reckonings, and very possibly a shooting with firearms, so here you are, now that I have said that the application of this article will probably lead, somewhere and bloodbath, you can already record me as someone who is an inspiration to bloodshed, because of the application of your unconstitutional law and the provision of Article 16 of this law that you propose. So I appeal to the assembly majority that will adopt this law, which will certainly vote for it, to be taken into account, and not to be brought into the situation and the officials of the Tax Administration and the owners of the company, to do what they probably, as people, do not want to do, but by carrying out these, you will surely find people who are going to perform this task, you will create chaos on the ground, you will do wonders! People are gonna shut down the store. This law, regardless of what its fifth amendment is, will not bring results which I suppose the minister is expecting. It'll bring quite the opposite results. It would be good for the government to break up with this practice that, I guess, is the combustion of these governments alone, so that one law suggests that they change and supplement each month or two or three gives to this National Assembly. Really, it's about time after three years, I guess you learned how to work. When a law is proposed, it should be a legal text whose term of use will be at least the time limit of this government, which is another two or three months.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32324	Are any of the applicants of the amendment applying for a word? Here's a word from MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32325	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS - Slobodan Milosevic, colleague Rade Bajic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration. We have proposed this amendment to be a Article 16. The bill deletes, which is actually the member of the 135th Basic Law. When the basic law was adopted, we also suggested that a member of the 135th law be deleted and that it is completely unacceptable, as it predicts that the tax police may act in a pre-taste procedure as an internal affairs body. Except in that article, 135 wasn't given the right to a tax officer to take away a passport from a tax payer. Instead, in the amendments and additions to this law, the government eases this incompatibility between internal affairs authorities and the tax police, the government, on the contrary, continues to tighten and even deeper and more inappropriately mixed the affairs of the MUP and the tax police. Now it also proposes the right to the tax police to force taxpayers. We of the Socialist Party of Serbia think that giving such rights to the tax police is a illogical and unacceptable thing. In practice it will be, I would say, totally inconclusive and inconclusive of what is now being proposed. Police, in order to bring someone in, must have a warrant to bring her in, as far as is known, a warrant to bring in a taxpayer to build a congregation of municipalities, where a tax authority is located, for example in Leskovac. Imagine someone from the IRS who's giving a warrant to have someone handcuffed or, I don't know, with three officers escorted into the community council. Whether the head of the MUP in Leskovac, regardless of the arrangements of Minister Djelic and Mihajlovic, will act under this law or a new provision will have to be introduced in the rules of the MUP, which also allows an ordinary tax officer to issue an arrest warrant. We think that we from the Socialist Party of Serbia, that this provision is completely inconclusive, and that it should be deleted, because imagine you fellow MPs that Minister Gashi Knezevic had come up with this idea, so that in the recently adopted Law on Education and Education, he proposed a similar provision, and that educational inspectors had the right not to send a child to preschool education, which, according to that Gasa law, would suffer legal punishment, would be conducted in the department of the Ministry of Education, so that it would look and that it would be educationally affecting the youth. With the Minister's request to accept this amendment, and your fellow MPs to reconsider once more the forced detention of taxpayers, with or without handcuffs on hand, in the municipalities' buildings, I must say something else. With a very rigorous and multiple-changed Criminal Law, with twice the number of police officers compared to the time of the police state, as you called the previous regime, with the formation of BIA, more special courts and more special prosecutors, you need thousands more tax police officers to establish real European democracy. Isn't it a good message from the time of emergency, that when they arrested both the MUP and the BIA, and military security and the military police, and the political top of the country, and in prisons there were 10,000 citizens, that they were freed nine tenths or 9,000, and that by adopting these provisions that the tax police could force them to bring them in, they would make a great shame. If you don't throw this provision under your feet and the dignity of a taxpayer, someone with handcuffs on his hands will be buried as the last criminal. So please vote against the amendment of a member of this 16th law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32326	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, and then MP Ljubomir Mucic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32327	Dear colleagues, by amendment to Article 16 requiring the removal of this article, shall be intervened in Article 135. A law that's very questionable for a number of reasons. First of all, the position of the 1st member is foreseen to carry out the tax police through the detection of tax offences and their perpetrators. This is to the extent that it is clumsyly written that we can conclude that the regular authorities of the Ministry of the Interior do not have the possibility at all to disclose the tax of criminal offences, i.e. criminal offences which have the characteristics of a criminal offence provided for by the Criminal Law or even this law. We'll be in a position to get some data on these crimes, and then he'll probably have to deliver all the documentation or all the information he's come up with in some of the investigations, no matter what procedure, to this financial officer. It is now unclear to me whether it is such a situation, whether the MUP must act in such a way or at least act in parallel under the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act. As for attitude two, also very unfortunately formulated here, tax crimes are criminal acts governed by this law. What about those crimes that are governed by the Criminal Code, which they have in their being the elements of the criminal act that is prescribed here. We, if you remember, in a discussion of the Bill's proposal, when we first adopted it, referred to the problem and argued that it was not good for us to establish criminal acts by special laws, but that we should intervene if necessary in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. We have to go to codification, to avoid cases like we have now, and we unfortunately have no one to get answers from. The Minister won't answer us here, if he knows what to do in these cases himself. It was predicted that for the purposes of detecting tax crimes and their perpetrators, the tax police, in a pre-criminal procedure, could act as an internal affairs authority. She had the authority to, in accordance with the law and in co-operation with this authority, take actions in collaboration with the MUP except for restrictions on movement, as well as to invite and listen to the suspect without the right to bring him in and now, these changes require him to be entitled to bring him in. The question arises here whether in co-operation with the MUP, or whether the MUP remains as an assistant in the work of a financial officer or a financial officer, it has the authority to force someone to bring and listen. If that's the case, it's not good. I understand you can ask for police assistance. This is done by all inspection services and is then within the competences of the Ministry of Interior inspection services, then remain within the framework of their respective competences set by individual laws. I'm afraid in this country we won't know what kind of authority there is anymore, who can bring in, arrest and so forth. I would like to point out once again that this government and this government that has been acting in opposition for years has been honoring some previous government, I don't know how many tens of thousands of police officers, and it's been said that this is a police state and so on, and now we don't know how many services we have that we can say are police services. We have the MUP, the BIA, the gendarmes, the War Crimes Research Service, organized crime. That's five plus this financial police force, which also has the right markings, the attributes of a police officer. That's not how it works. It is necessary to strictly take care of what powers it has and who is there to assist if it is necessary to bring someone in or deprive them of their freedom. For this reason, we gave the amendment, because we were discussing and when we talked about this law when it was passed, with the fact that we couldn't really think that you would be willing to suggest only after a year that a financial officer has the right and that he is forced to bring in a person considered or suspected of committing a criminal act, which is considered a tax offense under this law. Once again, we have a hundred laws that predict criminal acts. I don't know why the Criminal Law will make us so many crimes and make a mistake, a mess in our legal system, instead of making such a good criminal law... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... such a good Criminal Law we only modify or possibly modernize.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32328	The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32329	Mrs. Micic, I would like to ask you to really give us information on the whereabouts of Mr. Djelic. Is he behind these changes? And yesterday, all day long, here by noon, he was away, no longer showing up, and it would really be good to be when it comes to these things, not to have the same debate that was and when this law was passed, it seems to me about the then-proposed article 175, which was suggested that the financial officers be armed. You probably remember, and I'll remind those who don't remember, that we then deleted the power of financial officers to have official weapons and weapons with a series of amendments to that article 175. That is why Minister Djelic should take the three amendments submitted to Article 16 of the amendment and the addition of the Tax and Tax Administration Act very seriously. Something similar to this article is being introduced in relation to what was foreseen in the December proposal when the law was adopted. The amendments to this article have been tabled by three parliamentary groups, which says that this is a very important and sensitive issue. I wouldn't read the arguments, but one of the reasons is that this article is not in accordance with the law. And this member predicts "that in order to detect tax offences, the financial police, or the tax police, have the right to call and listen to the suspect, with the right to bring him in." This means that this article introduces the obligation and authority of the tax police to bring in the taxpayer. This is a very delicate question, and on this side, I would like to get an answer from Mr. Minister - on the basis that the powers of a member of this law give him authority to the financial, tax police that he can act as an internal affairs authority and deprive someone of liberty, although he is destined in the same Article 135 that the tax police in a pre-crisis procedure can act as an internal affairs authority and is authorized to take demand actions in accordance with the law and in collaboration with this authority, except for the restriction of movement?- I'm sorry. Is the deprivement of a taxpayer in the IRS to deprive him of his freedom and to prevent his movement. Do not allow this member and the assessment of his constitutionality, as well as of the 22nd Government that has adopted, with a retroactive fact, this law and the provisions of this law to be counter-constitutional. That is why I call on you to take these reasons very seriously, given what I have pointed out and the provisions of Article 3 of this article, probably because the Police Minister and Minister Djelic have so far not agreed on the conduct and detention of taxpayers by the police, although this is in the position of the 3rd obligation and the other, that the form and manner of co-operation of the 3rd article will be governed by an agreed act by the Minister of Finance and Economy and the Minister of the Interior. What does this mean? It means that by eradicating and introducing this provision on bringing in taxpayers there is no longer co-operation and co-operation between the tax police, i.e. The Ministry of Finance and the MUP. I hope this reason should be accepted. You've calmed down. You probably figured out what this was about. You should think carefully and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32330	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment together includes the mid-term MPs Rajko Baralić and Ljubomir Mucic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32331	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the MPs elected from the SPS list - Slobodan Milosevic, my colleague Ljubomir Mucic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 19 by erasing the views of 1st and 2nd. We believe that tax reform and tax discipline cannot be achieved only through amendments and additions to the Law and amendments to the amendments. We believe that such a thing is needed, above all, a clear vision of how the tax system should look and what the tax procedure and tax administration should look like, and what is the interest of citizens and legal entities, and what is the level of obligations and the need that the state cannot deny without all these three factors agreeing in such a way that we have an effective tax system, and that citizens and legal entities are satisfied to the extent possible. The extension of the deadline in another four months is considered unwarranted. If you looked at the stengraphs of the notes, when this law was passed, when we talked about it a while ago, you would see that we taxed that it was not possible to implement it in this way, and that, as with some other solutions, and we saw yesterday and Mr. Bojan Pajtic's amendment, he submitted an amendment that is identical to our position a year ago, it is not a shame to admit that someone misjudged that he had not installed the defect, that he had not taken a good look at the essence, but it would be fair to say that sometimes the amendments proposed by the people who came to this matter seriously and who, in a way that was in the interest of the Serbian citizens, had proposed certain solutions. For discussion in particular, these changes and additions, like the Law itself, there are two witnesses missing here. There's a minister missing, and there's a TV camera missing. Both witnesses are necessary because no argument we offer here can be accepted by anyone other than the government's representatives, and Serbian citizens have no opportunity to hear what has been covered by changes and additions, and what people with popular trust and a national mandate are saying about the law here in this assembly. So I urge once again to return the camera here and accept this amendment, because by amendment we are improving what is proposed in the amendments themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32332	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32333	Mrs. Micic, we're about to see who's holding down the reform. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is the last amendment to this law tabled by the SPS MPs, I would like to repeat the conclusion that we accept all those provisions of the law relating to the rights of publishing and regulation of issues introduced and laid down by the Law on Publishing Law, and at that point we have no objections. The majority of the comments of the SPS parliamentary group refer to tightening the conditions for taxpayers, and even to this famous member, I have explained earlier, meaning the possibility of bringing in taxpayers by the tax police. I expect Mr. Djelic to come in, I look at the door all the time, so I really understand who is holding down the reform right now. I've pointed out several times that the deadlines he proposes, as minister and government here, are either unserious or undosed deadlines for which appropriate rights and obligations should be established, and at this time, taxpayers. This is the second or third change in tax laws that extend the deadlines and indeed this change where the famous Article 186 is regulated, which we pointed out in the adoption of this law that the six-month deadline for reporting assets, i.e. the immovableity over the value of 20 million dinars, is short and that it needs to be well looked at and determined, and also by the tax administration of three months when the tax administration is to respond to the taxpayer. On this occasion, these proposed amendments extend this deadline from six months to ten months, I do not understand it, constantly extends by four or five months, not to any deadline that really is either a quarter or a whole year. Keep in mind the following law, the Transport Tax Act, and this is where the introduction of fiscal tills is extended by five months. I can't figure out why some deadlines that really, in the world also apply and are recognised half-yearly quarter and yearly, why they run away from these deadlines and their introductions. From that point of view, I suggest that this member be deleted, given that the MP club and SPS MPs are against eradicating art items belonging to the property that the taxpayer should report. Does this mean that someone who has an art collection worth 300, 400 or 500,000, oh sir, Minister, so I keep repeating like the one in the movie -- where my moped is, and where my minister is, let me suggest something like this, I'll just say it for a second. "The suspension of reforms is a constant extension of the deadlines for the application of the laws that you propose, and this assembly votes." Secondly, I think it is the ten-month extension deadline for taxpayers to file a report, undosed inappropriate, given that someone acquired the value of property over 350,000 euros, and in six months, it failed to submit a tax application for the value of the property it owns. The next thing, the most expedient circumstances in all of this are all those tax returns on extra-income and extra-profits where the value of the property of taxpayers and the amount of tax to be paid. Finally, I suggest you accept these amendments, as well as the previous amendment on the deprivement of the freedom of taxpayers and to deal with once again the amendment of Article 22 which is unconstitutional and introduces a return fact because of your delay in extending the deadline on the basis of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32334	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. After we've completed our search of the draft law in particular, I'm asking if the proposing's representative would like a final word on this agenda point? You're gonna do it all in the end? Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Tax Tax on Transport (Statistics) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together with Golub Rajic and Rajko Baralić; together Jovan Todorovic and Ljubomir Mucic; Ljubomir Kragović, Vitomir Plužarević, Dragan Colić, Dragan Ljubojević, Goran Cvetanović, Milorad Mirčić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Milovan Radovanović; together Zivanko Radovan and Golub Rajić; and Bojan Pajtic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since we have carried out a joint principled search under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32335	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal to amend and supplement the Transport Tax Act is one proof of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which this proposal provides, for the third time, to the Republic of Parliament. What is most interesting is precisely that this law announces that this tax tax solution will free the printed media and publishers by 20%, so that books, magazines, daily and occasional presses will be freed and paid on the market. The problem is that it was this Member of the Law when the print media and publishers were taxed at the time, the SRS group said, and especially Prof. Vojislav Seselj as something that is inappropriate for democratic societies and the civilized world. Finally, the minister realized he was wrong, so now he's abolishing. Another reason why this law is passed is because of the adoption of the Financial Lising Act where one reason is again listed here, which is imposed by the procedure itself, so that the sales tax of the product does not pay when the leaser buys the products for the lease, but at the time when the leaser gives the products which are normal and which is too high in this bill. Otherwise, in particular, the SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 1 which should be amended and read as follows: "In the law on sales tax in Article 2(2), paragraph 6) the point is eventually replaced by a comma and words are added above the value established by the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; and point 7 is added) the purchase of the product by the leaser in the financial lease business." Mr. Minister, this is an idea for the SRS to give up a part of the tax for a bigger amount later, so that if the manufacturer gives up his profits on the products he gives away, and in order to advertise and propaganda, presentations and the like, to increase sales, why would the state not give up a part of the tax to increase sales of the same product and thus increase revenues from sales tax. It is the idea, Mr. Minister, that the Government also give up one piece, to present one amount that the Ministry will personally establish, to free the tax on those who advertise this production and which goes into these representative or propaganda and advertising purposes, so that the product would be more demanding on the market, and therefore more revenue would later be achieved and larger additions. I guarantee these are sufficient reasons and that the minister will accept this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32336	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32337	Dear colleagues, we have taken the opportunity to intervene in Article 2. The Transport Tax Act, whose amendments and additions are required, and not in this section where the Government has done so, of course, we have nothing against the proposed addition that the purchase of the product by the leaser in the business of the financial lease is considered to be sales and traffic, and therefore to be subject to the tax, but we felt that in paragraph 6 of Article 2 of this article we should allow producers to release one part of the tax for the use of their products for the purpose of representation or propaganda. How important marketing is today, how important propaganda is, and how much impact it has on the total volume of traffic, thus and production, we have probably managed to make sure so far through advertising that we can see on billboards or on a website or television. This has already become so aggressive that it affects the volume of production, which is the ultimate goal of the manufacturer. I suppose it should also be the goal of the state, or government, because that means more money in the state budget again, so if the manufacturer is ready to give up one piece of his profits by giving up his products as a representation and using them as a representation or for propaganda, then the government should decide, to give up one piece of his profits and to set free, to establish some limit as long as you can use something as a representation, and from which level should the tax be paid. We believe that this should not be fully taxed, but only partially, and the government could at some rate determine for everything, from what I don't know, total production or re-paid sales tax, for last year or quarterly, etc. As important as the ad is, I guess you're all convinced with that ad "bought on a strip and not a newspaper", how much the production of those fast cigarettes is, and who's got the biggest profit from those cigarettes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32338	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarević, applicant for the amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to the Amendment to the Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Tax Act, Article 2 is deleted. All the changes that have been made to this set of laws have been suggested worse than the previous changes that we, as the Serbian Radical Party, have shown, and the minister himself has boasted with a lot of optimism about all these budget, or tax laws, as if they were the best in the world. Turns out these laws aren't good and they have a lot of shortcomings, or they're confusing. The minister himself doesn't understand them. These changes and proposals from this set of tax laws will not be good for citizens or society. There's a larger number of firms closing down than companies opening up. All motives are lost. The constitution you are referring to is so irrelevant to you that it can be compared to the current opportunities in Kosovo. You're making strange statements about all these laws we're talking about today. As for these new investments and this new thinking that someone will invest even along the way, for us in Serbia, new thinking and that is licking. That's impossible today. There is great uncertainty for all those who should invest in today's Serbia, and it is known that it is because of you who are ruling today and you are not ready to give a quality answer to that question. The urgent process of passing this law is clear to everyone in the tax policy system, except for citizens who are not clear today. They don't understand why you're changing a set of tax laws every day, so even your ministry officials are not aware of what the law is in force and which is in the process. The effects of the budget are reduced to a minimum, so the optimism for the budget is no longer real commentary. You are left to sell out some of the few living Serbian heads and to obtain a certain tranche of money at the hands of those obligations to The Hague tribunal. We Serbian radicals believe that this Article 2 should be deleted for reasons why the state cannot remain without income and cannot be in a more unfavourable position than the leaser. Lising providers have an obligation to enter into the territory of Serbia new capital that has its own value and that value must be reasonably taxed. Lysing is not defined on our market so that the comment in this article is not acceptable. Equipment and means of work are placed under the same proposal for this law. Perhaps in these amendments and additions to the Law, it was necessary to propose that children's shoes, food and wardrobe taxes be released, books and all that is related to the young generation to which we should create the right environment in order for it to love its country and remain in it to be and live, and not to have the opposite things happening to us. That the young generation can't wait to leave our homeland. We must not allow ourselves to be organized by drug fairs and to draw positive comments from it, it is embarrassing of anyone to come. The Serbian Radical Party also had a large number of amendments to the basic text of this tax law, so we have pointed to a lot of things as we are now, and we will not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32340	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32341	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party has asked for the amendment to delete this Article 2 which is exempt from the procurement tax, i.e. imports of products to be given in financial leases. This is somewhat contradictory with Article 4 which is intervened in Article 8 but I hope we will get an adequate explanation in the course of the debate. We don't see why the government here is giving up taxes on a financial lease. When we talked about the Financial Lising Bill, we doubted that some financial lobbys would use this for further gain, for a good investment of free capital and for the hiring of dirty money, and that they would come out of this business even richer than they were. I'm convinced it will be because they're even exempt from the tax for a financial lease service. All the tax is poured over to the buyer, i.e. the one in whose favor the licking was done, and the one who only intervenes between the owner of the capital, most often the bank, in our case, the Delta Bank: some of the jobs are concluded on the import of cars, Miskovic created and gave the capital. Some people's close authorities got that capital, we imported "pejoa" into the augomobile program, or some other, I don't have to speak data now that's completely accurate, but this is one example that you're going to see for yourself and how it exists on our market. Cars are sold, clean capital, pure profit only has one that comes in between the bank and the last buyer. (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: So is Grandma. I wish I was already a grandmother. I guess I'll be in two, three years. Thank you, Milk, for warning me. I can't wait. I look forward to it, and I think everyone in their right mind is looking forward to being a grandmother. So, we wanted to warn the minister this way that the argument that we need to get rid of the double tax may not stand in this case and that the state here is protecting fat coke, that maybe we should deal more with those who are final buyers, and that it also burdens the one who benefits the most from this financial lease deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32342	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the amendment of the law on amendments to the Transport Tax Act. In my amendment, I am asking, but I am not insinuating that you will accept that Article 3 is changed and that it reads: "Article 8 after Article 4 adds to Article 5, which reads - the taxpayer of product sales is a leaser of products". As a consequence of DOS-Mali authorities, people close to the regime appear, people who have privileged status, who have their lobby on imports, and later earn profits in an illegal manner. This amendment, which you will not accept, prevents a taxpayer from issuing new motor vehicles and water facilities subject to the obligation to register, from being a lysing recipient with a question as to which the import lobby requires such a provision in the Law. Will this tax solution allow the planned effects of the proposed measures? In the DOS-Manley state, all financial transactions, all vaults and all cash registers, except for Joseph Casa, may be under the hands of the highest officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and their close relatives and friends. Thus, this law, or Article 3, which you are predicting, will be privileged to Stanko Subotić-Cane, Filip Cepter, Dragoljub Marković, Miodrag Kostic-Kole, all the best man to godfather, and so this godfather's lobby and the law that you propose will remind Al Capone and Don Vit Corleone of the time. The amendment prevents import privileges and illegal profits, as well as preventing lobbies from being damaged by Serbian citizens. The lobbyists mentioned above will eventually answer with their protectors, before the court, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32344	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32345	It's clear to all of us that there are some lobbys dealing with imports, especially imports of cars, and there's been pressure on the government. We know that it was, that this sales tax would be paid by the last one in the chain, i.e. the customer of the car on the lease, so there was additional pressure to make that tax payment only after the licking - fee is fully paid, so after three or four years and then on the value of the car at that time, as a used car, it would be an additional relief for the buyer himself, or citizen who in this way gets to the car. But the government couldn't wait that long for taxes and didn't succumb to the pressures of these lobbies, but only partially, and I think this is for the benefit of a state cash register that is now crying for money and that counts that there will be a lot of those who are interested in buying cars in this way, because we know that the average car, which is driven in Serbia, is 10 years and over. I don't know exactly, I guess for 12 years, I almost read something like that in the paper. I have to remind you, Minister. Yesterday I was in Smederjevska Palanca, an autistic city in Serbia, which was once very lively, in which Gosa worked and several thousand workers worked in the "Gosa". I came back from Smederjevska Palanka and to the Great Plane throughout the city, Plana and Smederjevska Palanka, no car on the street I saw moving. I'm telling you the most seriously. That was really scary after this noise in Belgrade. The car has, of course, in the middle of the day as much as you want, and we know that in our inner cities it only leaves at night, that the bride sits in the cafes, but Smederevska Palanka and the Great Plan are dead cities. There's not one single car on the street. Then you can imagine how the people live. That's how I noticed it on the way. I tell those who import cars, and of course there are those who will always be able to buy and there are those who, unfortunately, won't be able to buy bread soon, but that's how it is. We'll see how long this tax policy of yours will lead, and since we see what kind of bankruptcy policy you're preparing, if you let it go into the process next week, there'll be noise in the press, in public, because that just means extra sale, total sale of everything we have, all the businesses, all the resources, and of course the government will wash their hands and everything will be in the jurisdiction of these trade courts. Read your colleagues this law and I believe you will have much visionary to see in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32346	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Golub Rajic and Rajko Baralic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32347	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on the proposal of the Law on Changes and Supplements of the Law on Transport, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed to the National Assembly to adopt by an emergency procedure, in front of the SPS parliamentary group with my colleague Baralic, I submitted an amendment to Article 4, where we proposed that Article 4 be amended and read as follows: "In Article 9(1), second paragraph, the new point of point 3 is added, which is the sales (factual), i.e. the market value of the product which is the subject of the financial lease. So far, points 3. - 6. becomes points 4. - 7." In Article 4 of this proposal of the law, it is proposed that the tax base for the tax on the sales of products in the case of the provision of a product in financial lease constitutes the market value of the product, which is the subject of the financial lease, where the exemption from the payment of the tax on the marketing of services is provided for in Article 4 of the Treaty. Kolega Baralic and I are making the issue of the basics of the sales tax on products subject to the financial lease more transparently and more transparently. If the reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need for a package of measures, which creates more favourable conditions for investment in the economy, tax policy instruments to be placed in the function of their realisation and if the Financial Lising Act creates normative assumptions for investing in Serbia's economy through the purchase of equipment based on financial leases, in line with market economy models, which requires the need for adequate tax treatment, equipment obtained in this way, then this amendment should be accepted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and the Finance Committee did not accept it, while the government's opinions are gone. Regardless, I suggest you accept this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32348	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, the authorised representative, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32349	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think that if there is a good will, this amendment can be accepted in view of the fact that, from a certain point of view, this amendment completes what this member regulates. I can say that the SPS parliamentary group has submitted three amendments to the amendment and addition of this law. As for the political views of our parliamentary group, I can say that we really support certain provisions that stimulate the area of financial lease in tax policy, and that we regulate customs and other regulations. I think by the end of the year, financial leases should be revived and business activities in this country started. From that point of view, we only suggested that in this Article 4, these points, which are here, would already be proposed to Article 9 and it would be logical that, after the sale price and value of the imported product, the market price, i.e. the invoice price of the product which is the subject of the financial lease, should be considered that the provisions and points which regulate the sale, then, the value of the missing and the value of the surplus shown and which are not at all related to the purchase of basic assets and to what is regulated by the Transport Tax Act. I believe that it is logical, given that Article 7 of the proposed amendments and the addition of this law, is in real Article 18 of this Act, and Article 18 regulates the obligation to charge taxes on sales, when it arises, and in that article it is foreseen that the tax liability arises on the day of issue of the invoice, i.e. the invoice on the sale of the product or the execution of the service, or on the date of the conclusion of the financial lease contract. If we have already regulated the date of issue in this article at the time of the establishment of the tax obligation, then we should also have the level of the tax obligation to bind to the amount of the invoice for the goods obtained, i.e. to the product obtained. From that point of view, it is necessary to accept this amendment, given that it does not regulate any other tax obligations or tax exemptions, but only from this point of view regulates what the tax liability is determined. I'd just like to comment on Article 3. I don't think there's really any legal basis for a leaser to be a taxpayer for car sales. The recipient of the lease from the financial leaser requires the purchase and is the owner until he makes the payment, meaning the lender. Through a financial lease fee, you can regulate and pay off the principal, you can regulate the rates, but the sales tax, in this country you can't be obliged to be the one who doesn't own the property on which the sales tax is paid. This can be regulated by a special financial lease agreement, means that the recipient pays the lease, but the debtor must always be the taxpayer, i.e. who owns the property on which the sales tax is paid. As a result, I think it is acceptable to amend, because the removal of this member is proposed, means that the taxpayer, the taxpayer of the sales of the product when giving new motor vehicles, will be the recipient of the lising. I believe that this amendment to Article 4 is also acceptable where, in particular with the market value which may be the subject of a financial lease agreement and of a selling or invoice value, it should be the basis for determining the sales tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32350	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dragan Ljubojevic submitted to the 4th Amendment. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is from the People's MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Mitrovica, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this law, and we are intervening not in the part in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia intervened, adding this part to financial lease, but in the position of the 4th law, which says that subsequently approved discounts in the price of the product cannot be deducted from the tax base. It is clear to us that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is empty. It is clear to us that a great financial expert, a man who has implemented his reforms in Eastern European countries, is a man who has entered those countries where he has implemented reforms of the tax system forbidden, concerned and has no way and has no opportunity to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. So he's looking for ways to "cut" taxpayers' taxpayers, as much as possible from the little business that works, from the few businesses that are doing something today in Serbia. However, this and this position of Article 9. The law, we find it unsustainable, and that is why we took advantage of the opportunity, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia intervened with some other member in this Article 9. So we took the opportunity to try again to convince the Government of the Republic of Serbia in Section 4. to introduce one supplement and to be able to approve, i.e. that a tax can be calculated at a lower value than the one originally mentioned in the invoice, if this is a rebate, or if it is a reduction, that is, if the discount is indicated in the invoice, because it is usually not indicated in the consignor and because it is happening that someone is holding certain goods at a price of 100 dinars and that it pays the tax, and that this goods are long on the warehouse, in the store, and that it is cheaper and more practical and rational to approve a discount of 50%, in order to get the money and to place the goods, rather than to keep them in the warehouse. If we take this view of Article 9, Article 9, we come to the situation that although it is at a loss, even though it will sell goods perhaps less than the cost of production, less than the purchase price, it will have to pay the basic to the original amount of tax. It is certainly true that there was an abuse in practice, that fictitious invoices were made in order to end the state and thus reduce giving to the state. The problem here is that the minister, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, is thinking the way criminals think. When she wants to fool the state, she thinks that way, because she wants to trick taxpayers, she wants to steal from taxpayers. Instead of thinking about how to enable taxpayers, how to enable those who participate in business activities to employ even more capacity, to be able to make more traffic, and by making more traffic and paying more taxes to the state. This way, I'm afraid we'll be in a situation where almost all economic activity in Serbia dies with this tax policy. Then the question arises from which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from which expert Bozidar Djelic, will charge taxes in some future period, will fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia with which, as donations and loans are growing from year to year, and it is certain that there will be no future period of this at all. Unfortunately, neither in Serbia will there be anyone to charge taxes, so neither will the budget be filled.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32352	Anyone else want a word from an authorized participant? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32353	Dear colleagues, if there was a need for this provision in the position of Article 9(4), which is amended by amendment and the very proposal for a law amending and supplementing this legislation on sales tax, and if there was a need for it to be so reglazed when the law was passed, it certainly does not exist now, because in the meantime we have introduced a fiscal register. It, and based on it, can be clearly determined at which price the goods were sold, or will be able to be determined at the most recent time, given that we have extended the deadline for the introduction of fiscal tills, but in the meantime we have allowed and obliged the sellers to issue an account, and we have obliged the buyer to export the account from the store and to be subject to control. Therefore, if there was considered to be a possibility of abuse in showing the right price at which some goods are sold as a basis for tax collection, there are now some other mechanisms, or there will be very soon such mechanisms, I am thinking first of all of the fiscal cash register, to determine at which price certain goods are sold. In this respect, if it remains in recital 4 that subsequently approved discounts in the price of the product cannot be rejected from the tax base, I am afraid that it destimulates even the sellers to approve these discounts or producers to approve these discounts, and we know that the tax breaks in the price of the last buyer i.e. For those of us who wait for these sales or discounts, at least for the goods of broad consumption so we can buy something. If they're given, in the world it's been a long time, and we're seeing it, and we're starting to see it's in the off-season sales, and it's already started selling out the summer dressing room, so you've got a 50% discount. If something cost 3,000 now costs 1,500 dinars. It's not a small discount, but if it's on those 1,500 dinars, or 3,000 have to pay a 20% tax, that's 600 dinars, so out of that 1,500, 600 is his tax, and he practically sold the goods probably below the purchase price, and then there's no interest in giving such a discount. I don't think that's good, first because of the trade, because of creating more favourable conditions for traffic, and it's not good for the one who buys the goods, or for the citizens who are the last buyers, who, because of the difficult economic situation, are waiting to buy something on a discount, which should be stimulating in some way and for the one who gives the goods for sale and for the one who waits for the goods to come into such a situation to be on the discount, so that he can get himself something. Of course, the minister doesn't listen at all. The appearance of a minister in the Assembly is only interesting for certain MPs who are trying to act with him for themselves or someone close to themselves, and I don't know why he's sitting here. He didn't hear what I told him, and he'll come out when we've finished the discussion in detail to look back at our debate, which is what we'll see when the time comes. Unfortunately, nobody listens to us here, and it's just us and no one else.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32354	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Živanko Radovanchev and Golub Rajic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants, the word for the amendment has a People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32355	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister in front of the SPS parliamentary group, me and my colleague, Zivanko Radovanchev, and I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act. We have suggested adding in Article 5 the new points 8a) and 8b) which are "8a) butter and cheeses of cow, sheep and goat origin; 8b) baby equipment, children's food, shoes and clothing up to confection number 8". This Article 5. The draft law or Article 11 of the basic law regulates the tax exemption and we believe that the tax exemption for the products listed in the new points 8a and 8b should also be introduced. Tax exemption for products 8a) we are looking for the fact that it is necessary to provide lower prices for these food products, whose consumption in the diet of the population takes a significant place and spends a large part of the family budget. In the Republic of Serbia, annual consumption of all kinds of cheeses is about 90,000 tonnes. Of the total consumption of cheese, only about 8,000 tonnes are produced and sold in industrial dairy under the supervision of the veterinary inspection. Other production, which means 90%, is realised and realised on markets without the supervision of the people of the city and beyond the control and application of the Transport Tax Act. If the amendment was accepted, they would equate in economic terms the position of cheese producers which place their products through a trade network with domestic cheese producers which place their products on the market and other non-marketable places. Equalising the terms of sales and taxation would stimulate the consumption of cheeses produced in registered and controlled facilities, thus reducing the risk of possible problems in the diet of the population due to the fact that more than 90% of the cheeses in the markets are microbiologically incorrect. Elimination of the sales tax on raw materials and butter would contribute to a significant reduction in prices by about 25% and thus increase the consumption of cheeses and contribute to a healthier way of feeding the population. Tax releases for baby equipment, shoes and clothing up to confectial number 8 are proposed in order to relieve the family budget, but also as a stimulating measure to increase birthrights in the area of social care for children. The Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible, the Finance Committee did not accept it, the government's opinion is missing, and it would probably be that, if accepted, it would open the issue of tax exemption for other food products, which does not necessarily mean. The minister didn't even listen, he came out, and no matter what, I suggest that you accept this amendment in the voting day, that the extremely difficult economic and material situation of the population at least improve a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32356	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32357	Well, it's not that I'm boring, but as to who, someone will realize that once again and again, the lie becomes true, and the repeated truth only of Mr. Minister will not be recognised, that MP groups, including the MP group of SPS, in December proposed to amend and exempt from the press and publication tax, and then there were a lot of problems about acceptance or non-acceptance, but here, after six months of meeting with press representatives and publishers, he suggested that daily presses, monographs and serial publications be released from the obligation to pay sales taxes. And, just as this area of exemption starts based on the sales of goods and services, what's most interesting in all of this, the minister comes out. I think this is the third time an amendment has been proposed by the SPS parliamentary group to exempt from paying taxes on transport, baby equipment, food for infants, shoes and clothing for the youngest, and I hope that, if not this time, then probably at the end of the year, when creating a tax policy for the coming year, this will bear fruit. The explanation that at this point there is no clear classification - what is considered as numbers of children's shoes and clothes is really unacceptable, given that it is much easier to define than the concept of publication, and I can tell you - here, on the half, these two attitudes regulate the question of what monograph publications are up to serial publications, and thus this activity and the field of publication is regulated as well as the way of achieving and liberating on the basis of sales tax. I think that at this point, children's food is really a big burden for family budgets and that, through the release from tax on transport, it would really contribute to the future of our socially endangered families being able to give satisfaction to the youngest, their offspring, in their diet. For these reasons, I suggest that the minister and you MPs accept this amendment so that we do not tell the same story again in December how many times we have proposed to exempt from the obligation to pay taxes on baby equipment, the need for nutrition, our youngest and all that we have proposed in our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32358	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments to the Transport Tax Act and I don't know what part this is, possibly the fifth or sixth part that Minister Djelic puts before us. If we, as MPs, have the energy to know for who knows which time we have the same bill with some amendments, then Mr Djelic should also pay attention to the presentation of the MPs. First of all, I would like to commend Minister Djelic for saying in our people, "Only a fool doesn't change his mind." It is obvious that Mr Djelic has changed his stance, although representatives of the SRS have repeatedly warned that the sales tax, in the press and some other items, is not desirable and is not necessary in any case. The reasons for the adoption are primarily stated in the sense that this would result in more favourable conditions for investing in the economy, the instruments of tax policy put into function their realisation, so, well, let's just believe in the word, although this does not show that some investment in the economy is done in a good way. In the function of encouraging publishing, it is proposed to exempt from paying taxes on books and magazines, the daily press, given that it is a matter of activity which, apart from the economy, has an exceptional social significance. The economic situation of publishers should also be improved, creating assumptions for better information for the population and increasing circulation. In any case, if the government were interested in better informing the population, above all these sessions would be more transparent and public and would not be without transmission, so surely these reasons which are stated for the adoption of these laws do not stand. What the SRS amendment has tried to do here is tax exemptions for some products and foods that are really necessary primarily for the young population. In Article 5, a new position should be added: "Article 11(1) after point 3) adds a new point 3a) which reads: Food for infants, diapers for babies, means to maintain the personal hygiene of babies and children, clothing items for babies and children, toys and equipment for children up to two years of age." And you can see for yourself that in Article 11, where tax exemptions stand, you have 21 points, and we have tried our amendment to make it point 3a, and that means, immediately after milk, bread, edible oil, from sunflowers, oily tails, soybeans, olives and edible fats, either animal or vegetable origin, as well as sugar. So right after these products, it really is the most important food for the population in Serbia for infants, diapers, all the means to maintain personal hygiene babies children, as well as clothing items of the baby. We have talked here several times about the birth rate in Serbia, and we have repeatedly said how negative the birth rate of all Serbia is and how it is necessary for this government to show both will and desire and, in practice, that it wants to improve the conditions of the lives of young marriages, so that it is really an ideal situation for Mr Djelic to accept this amendment. Here, in the SRS amendment, it's defined just -- all the equipment, all the toys, everything for children up to two years of age. I have an older son who is more than 10 years old but also under 2.5 years of age, so I'm really sure that Minister Djelic has had such problems or other family problems, so he knows what it means to keep a family, or to allow the youngest family members to have healthy physical and mental life and breeding. (Minister Djelic nods his head as a sign of confirmation. ) That is why, indeed, on behalf of the SRS, I urge the minister to reconsider all this once again, because I am sure that if he does not accept this today, after a few months, when his last exposure may be in this National Assembly, he will realize that he should have done so much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32360	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32361	I wanted to remind you that when the law was passed in 2001 on two occasions and when it was amended in 2002, we also asked that Articles 11 and 11 in addition to publications of special interest in science, art, sales taxes and textbooks be released. We know what the price of the textbook is, that this price is very high and who has two or three students can calculate what it would mean to release the tax on the sales of textbooks. Practically for one child, parents would have free books, if the state gave up that sales tax and that would mean a lot to the budget of our citizens who are very thin and as far as I can see, there are more and more people who buy second-hand textbooks and who thus equip their children to go to school. The payment capacity is getting smaller from month to month and the government should show little more understanding and that, in addition to these amendments in Article 8 where it predicted that only monograph and serial publications should be freed of sales taxes, instead of earlier provisions to be publications of particular interest in science, art and culture, so are textbooks. Of course, this change in the daily and occasional press, we know how this happened, at the time when the Serbian government's chief and responsible editors pressured the government to put pressure on journalists and newspapers and television stations, in terms of pressure that everything was censored and that the pressure was released, and apparently it was some union protest, and it required a reduction of the sales tax for the press. We can see in the explanation that this is, for the reasons allegedly, an improvement in the economic position of the publisher, which would create assumptions for better information and increased circulation, let the newspaper write what they think, and they will best handle it on the market and on the market principle fight for as much circulation as possible by their quality, so there will be no big cost of paying the state tax. If this is true, and I think it's a mistake, that you wrote that it's about 600,000 dinars, I think it's about 600 million, and it's not a big number when it's distributed to the number of houses dealing with publishing or broadcasting television or radio programs, but of course, we're also looking for the principle of what we've been asking for on three occasions, to get rid of sales taxes on baby food, baby diapers, baby medicine, baby hygiene and children's children and clothing items for babies and children, toys and equipment for children up to two years of age. As you can see, we were going very low with the age limit so that there wouldn't be that argument that the minister had made earlier that it had calculated a lot with it, that it was abused when it was up to 14 years old, and then the manufacturers of the clothing items instead of number 38, 40, wrote 13, 14 and so on. So there's no danger of such a thing. Of course, we were hoping that the government would figure out for itself what the electricity price situation is and that at least with that refurbishment fee, which adds to each of us, with another 50 dinars per number. So far, that fee has been, I think, 78 dinars plus these 50 dinars, that's about 140 dinars, and we're paying taxes on electricity at each spent kilowatt, and where that money goes, what is being remounted when we have to go extra and on what grounds to pay that one more fee for maintaining the electricity system. So the kidnapping has really reached such a situation that we don't know what to do anymore, and how much we pay, 20% at any high price of electricity plus this extra load, it's something that's outrageous and I don't believe there's anywhere in the world, especially in our environment. We did not provide for the exemption from the sales tax of this fee in the amendment, but at least it could have been without the sales tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32362	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Ljubomir Mucic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32363	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Djelic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, frankly, I did not expect the government's representative to accept an SPS amendment proposing the release of taxes on the marketing of electricity services to individual consumers through a distribution network. By submitting this amendment to the SPS, it wanted above all to point to a catastrophic situation in which Serbian citizens would find themselves after the start of applying a new electricity price, which, as is knownly increased by around 15%. All of you colleagues, and in particular Mr. Minister, I would like to ask for a moment's attention to a very simple calculation of the subject of electricity delivered. If a household spent about 1,000 dinars two years ago on electricity consumption, that amount was to be paid 20% of the tax, or 200 dinars, the total commitment of that consumer was 1,200 dinars. Two years later, after a multiple increase in electricity prices, please, colleagues, for the same spent amount of kilowatts, you will pay 6,000 dinars based on consumption and another 20% on taxes, therefore, another 1,200 dinars, which will say a total of 7,200 dinars. In just two years, the amount of tax paid by citizens is equal to the total consumption plus the tax of two years ago. Now I ask you, who, realistically, of the average households and citizens with these incomes in Serbia can endure and what is the government's approach to this issue now? Second, where in the world does electricity have to be taxed by 20% as a service? We had a tax on delivered electricity that moved seven, eight to ten percent and was treated as a classic service. Today it's 20% and hard work at the Ministry of Finance and the government is ignoring the fact that it's too high a commitment. I am quite sure that the government would have to start thinking in a way, if it cannot accept this amendment immediately, then it must consider that those electricity supplied to citizens in households be either exempt from sales tax or that the tax rate is reduced from 20% to 10%. It would be a fair approach, it's quite certain that many won't be able to pay for this and what is the benefit of an increase in electricity that someone won't be able to pay. I assure you that where electricity is located, where it excludes consumers because they cannot reconcile their monthly obligations, that in 90% of the cases, these consumers never return to electricity consumption again, because they pay for it, and they can't handle it and pay for it. Now do I need to invite citizens to civil disobedience not to pay for electricity, and this is how they calculate it. You know that, many of you who have done just that within DOS parties, that's exactly what you've been doing. What exactly is all this for? The International Monetary Fund dictates the price of electricity, and who says it isn't? Mrs. Secretary Corry Udovici says it is. What's the point, is that the EPS splits into the system as it's done in Bulgaria and Romania, to privatize in this way, that according to the Energy Act, which has many new things, we introduce even wholesalers like many developed countries, so that the wholesaler sells electricity to us, to train only the transmission system, and to leave the manufacturer where he is and that this transmission system could receive the electricity that we will receive from Germany, from Austria, from those countries that have real excess electricity. I'm asking you -- can tax be just two years from now, 1,200 dinars as much as spending and taxes two years ago and who can handle it with two and a half thousand, 3,700, as is the case in Loznica, etc. Why is the government now throwing dust into our eyes and not ready to take any step to benefit the citizens, so that a part of the tax is released at the cost of not being able to finance some budget items. It's access to things and the SPS proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32364	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Ljubomir Mucic, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32365	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have come to a very serious issue and from the point of view of what you have suggested and from the point of view of the amendments proposed by the SPS parliamentary group, and this is one of the more serious issues that is finally being taken seriously by my colleague Todorovic. I can give you more information, but I'm going to look back on this opportunity. First of all, I think it is important to take seriously the fixed part that all consumers pay and pay taxes, regardless of the electricity consumption, and the spent electricity of 5.00 dinars, or 50,00 dinars and 5.00 5.00 dinars, all consumers pay the same fixed part based on the tariff number. Whether they should pay taxes on that fixed part, given that they did not spend on that part of electricity. Another very important question for the Republic budget, Mr. Djelic, have you ever made any information about how much the EPS, how many billions, is being touched from the Republic budget, can't I remember? (Božidar Djelic, from the post: 700 million this year. ) And how much of the turnover tax revenue from the EPS? If the EPS invoices monthly for example 10 billion dinars for spent electricity, let it charge 60% of it, and hard under these conditions, let it charge five billion, at what amount should the sales tax be paid? The sales tax must be paid at the invoiced amount of 10 billion. From that point of view, the most damaged in all of this is the EPS. Also, I have to say one bad example from the time the Socialists were in power, from the power distribution they had to pay television that famous amount for the TV subscription whether they were charged or not. This directly affected the outflow from the EPS. This is the same way that the EPS is denied for part of the funds for which it has not charged the demand for spent electricity. I think from that point of view, this would also be a great relief for the citizens of Serbia, for the EPS, who would not have to charge the bills for spent electricity within five days after the invoice, from 15 to 20 in the month. For these reasons, I think, if not this opportunity, but I suggest that you take this amendment seriously, and that we also help the citizens of Serbia and the EPS from that point of view, as well as the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Everything else is just a mere insinuation and we really need to enter into one policy of clean bills in tax releases, so you don't get the same mistakes, whether it's 10,000 euros or 10m euros, like publications and newspapers. In the end, we are against the release of financial lease services from services tax. We cannot favour if someone executes a new 100,000-euro car, or a leaser, so that he does not pay sales tax, as well as someone who has been provided with a current or a machine for his manufacturing activity. I think we need to split up. If you have transferred the sales tax of new cars to the recipient by the financial leaser, I think that, from that point of view, some of the activities of providing a financial lease should also be paid a tax on financial lysing services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32366	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the next amendment submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to article 6. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party Group has tabled an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law that states that - services performed by traditional churches and religious communities - is that: the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Religious Community, the Catholic Church, the Slovak Church a.v. The Reformed Christian Church, the Jewish religious community and the Evangelical Christian Church, to amend the text of the provision at point 4 of Article 17 of the basic text of the Law with the text I have now read on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Why did the Serbian Radical Party submit this amendment? Given the importance and great role of traditional religious communities and churches in these areas and the historical importance that they have left behind, and all the members of the listed churches know each one belonging to any of these religious communities, which was the role of each of those standing in the text of the amendments. Not to mention the role of the Serbian Orthodox Church, as the creator of national unification, spiritual leaders of the Serbian people, the creation of a sacred Serbian state, Serbian statehood, diplomacy, etc. and these other religious communities also played a particular role in creating a particular culture, certain customs and, of course, special importance for members of national minorities. On the other hand, ten years ago, there was especially expansion, flood, and the emergence of religious sects. Its totalitarian, destructive, guru - movement, psychoorganization, commercial cults, psychological and non-cortical effects have affected the creation of human mental, spiritual, and physical health. These religious communities that we put into religious sects affect the destruction of individuals and men in general, as well as the entire social communities and entire families. Their role was not created in itself. Of course there was, at a time when the Serbian Orthodox Church, the most, and other religious communities in a hidden way, banned the work, that these religious sects had found an empty spiritual space and simply moved on to our soil. Most of them, although originating in India, are pseudo-industrial and Hindu, although there are many pseudo-Christian origins, came and came from the United States. The United States, the greatest evil of today's humanity, is in various ways trying to destroy all other nations and the most Orthodox world. Of course, the influence of religious sects is one of the most significant means, in addition to other diplomatic and political threats and the use of force, this is one of the methods and ways to destroy certain countries and certain nations. In particular, with the commitment of the SRS parliamentary group and Prof. Vojislav Seselj on representation of national minorities in spiritual life and on legal provisions, there was an expression last year when the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Primary School was adopted, when most in this National Assembly accepted the amendment of the SRS to exactly taxively list traditional religious communities in this law, which can teach religious teaching. Also, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on High School, the same amendment by the SRS, the National Assembly accepted the amendment for these same reasons, to prevent certain religious sects from having an impact on primary and secondary schools. This is what I mention to you, Mr. Minister, given that you are a representative of the bill's proposal, that you consider as one of the arguments that it is just like this, a similar amendment, with the same content, accepted last year by your DOS majority in the National Assembly and that this amendment is of exceptional justification to prevent the functioning of destructive social religious sects. Let me just point out, recently, and the public is familiar with this, with the work of a religious sect that is registered as an association of citizens of Serbia, religious character, Madam President, I end up, I see that I've overstepped time, but only a few sentences, has been registered as an association of citizens, but it is with its operation that it is not about the association of citizens but a religious sect with elements of terrorist activities. There was an outstanding contribution made by one police captain in charge of this area, an outstanding quality in the matter of solving all these problems, which he asked his proposal to ban this religious sect from working and what was done, fortunately. It should be other religious sects, which are destructive, social, primarily sects that have to do with Satanism, because of their damage and harmful occurrence in our premises is too much to say, but it should always be reminded of how harmful they are, how destructive they are, how destructive they destroy every man's spiritual, mental and physical life.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32368	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32369	Dear colleagues, it would be really good for the minister to tell us whether he is ready to accept this amendment, given that we do not have the government's enforcement of amendments, because we think it is very important, given that some pseudo-religious organisations hide huge financial capital and probably the government wants to free them from taxes, if they are no longer determined, there is no appropriate measure, and there is no legal regulation to oppose religious sects that have found suitable soil in the areas of our country. Religious organizations as definitions are practically not regulated. What is a religious organization should be regulated by a special law. This is how we managed to build this through individual laws on several occasions, thanks to the understanding of the government's representatives and the parliamentary majority. We must also not remain deaf to the numerous religious sects that exist here. In fact, they exist, even though there would be reasons for many of them to be banned. If we have to release them from the service tax, we're just helping them to get further financial back up. We also know that there are "roterians" in the government who are the lobby for "massory". We know there are ministers in some sects. It's all over town and I don't want to say it, I don't have to say it that way, but you know it very well. If these lobbys are at stake, you'd need to make a deal at the government level if you'd succumb to lobbying or general interest. So it's not just the state budget, you want to benefit from it, or you don't, whether you're going to lose some income or not, but a principled attitude on religious sects, which should lead to one proposal for a law on religious organisations. I think it's high time that such a law entered the procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32370	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32371	The reality of fiscal policy is best seen in implementing the law proposed by the government. Obviously, these extorted multiple amendments and additions to the law are one of a series of evidence that fiscal policy, that the ministers, you've well noticed, is that this government doesn't run very realistically, not to say a proper, fiscal policy. What are you looking at? In the simple fact that the planned tax revenues, which should be passed into the budget, are obviously smaller. With this law, the minister practically showed that the budget rebalance could free the poor budget of 600 million dinars, while assuming that other sources would make up for it. However, these assumptions always end the same way or the same. They end up by further dragging their hand into the pockets of the people or reaching for the already verified way, which is taking international aid, international credits. This is where the government in Article 7 performed with one change, which is that the tax liability is imposed on the moment when the financial lease contract is signed. Now look what it's all about. We have actual government members who present or present two different concepts. One concept, represented by Minister Djelic, is as the most responsible minister, who takes care of finance, and it is also no secret at all, it is a man who is exposed as a proponent of G17plus theory. On the other hand, we have Minister Vlahovic, just you laugh Minister, maybe it'll be funny after the election, and now let us MPs interpret your political action a little bit. On the other hand, we have a minister named Vlahovic who literally cries out, screams, saying that additional burdens, what is the tax when a contract is concluded, and for the conclusion of a financial contract or a financial lease, you cannot, either legally or a natural person, do so with some foreign trustee if there is no additional guarantee of a domestic bank. And an additional guarantee costs, a monthly interest of 6%, so you see how burdened this initial capital called financial licking is and which legal or physical person, as it advocates in his reform course, should invest in the development of a small economy, in the development of production. With such an initial burden, no one is more able to take and sign a contract on financial leases, and why, if there are no such contracts or if they are ignored in their numbers, the law will, especially with these amendments and additions to the Tax Act, no one else is able to accept and sign a contract on financial leases. As an unfounded theoretical proposal for an amendment by the SRS to pay tax on the day of collection, this is a realistic change and addition of the law. As it will come out of this crisis, it is best that a healthy logic prevails, and fiscal policy is adapted to the conditions in which we live, rather than to a uniform tax rate, with the story that it is easier and simpler for taxpayers, and not to mention that the base of the tax through gross incomes has been increased and not stressing that even the interest of commercial banks goes with this financial lease tax. With such a policy, we will not get anywhere except at the door or at a counter of international institutions, where we will humbly pray, and then as a condition, we will get something called the delivery of Serbs, something called giving territory, something called occupation and protectorate that is already in force in Serbia. Don't think it's the people and we MPs, it's the government that comes out with these suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32372	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32373	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS amendment to Article 8 refers to Article 25 of the Basic Law, and we have, in this amendment, tried to introduce partnership relations between taxpayers and those to whom the tax is paid, between the state and the taxpayers. So, we wanted to make a deal in a much nicer way than the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, suggested, so that Grandpa and his grandkids could agree and that their grandfathers would not accept retirement, so that their grandchildren would have a future. In some earlier amendments, we have proposed that the surplus of the funds paid on the basis of the sales tax, which is paid to the Tax Administration, so that the state and the Tax Administration return to the taxpayers within 10 days. That wasn't accepted at the time. However, we now have a member of the law which says that when buying, selling, importing, giving in financial leases or giving without compensation of motor vehicles and water objects subject to an annual registration obligation, as well as in the case of a product, which the natural person only makes and which is subject to the obligation of annual registration, the sales tax of the product is paid within ten days. So when the state collects more and when there is a mistake, when the taxpayer pays more, the higher amount of funds, the state returns it to him within 30 days, using that money without any interest. When a citizen, or a taxpayer, is required to pay that obligation, the deadline is 10 days. This shows, probably, what is the state of the budget and that all resources and every possible way are needed to provide the necessary means of functioning. It's not the citizens' fault. They need to be given equal conditions, meaning what the state requires of them and that the state refers to them. I don't know, Minister, you've always stood up, and I listen to TV, listen in your public appearances, for some equal relations, about a citizen and a taxpayer having to be satisfied, you have to expand the circle of taxpayers, but to make tax obligations less, easier, more viable. This is where you put the state and the taxpayer in irregular treatment. Citizens expect their country to pay taxes to be primarily a sense of commitment and satisfaction when they pay, as well as to know that they smell and fill the budget, in order to return it through some of the services that the state gives them, but not to be discriminated against and that the state requires more of them than the state provides them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32374	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The last amendment is based on the proposal to add a new member of the 9th article after Article 8 and proposed by MP Bojan Pajtic. The Prime Minister and the Financial Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Mr Bozidar Djelic, the finance minister, want the final word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32375	Madam Vice President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of these few minutes and try to answer some of the questions raised in this discussion. I want to apologize for not being able to attend the entire debate. Believe me, it wasn't a lack of desire, it was because of a huge number of obligations. As far as these two points of the agenda are concerned, I'd like to say that as far as the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration are concerned, one speaker was talking about Al Capone. What I'm trying to say is that what you have in article 16. That's exactly what it is. There have been and there are countries where the tax administration and the tax police have the right to carry arms. We decided, weighing the arguments "yes" and "no" to leave the monopoly over the use of firearms only and exclusively to our MUP. We're afraid that in case we start with the IRS, there are other services. I have to say, in fact, practice, if you take customs, in many countries customs, not all, but those who have special powers, have the right to carry weapons. It seemed to us that the moment had not come to Serbia, and we should leave the monopoly exclusively to the MUP and authorized persons in the ministry. In view of the efficiency in the enforcement of forced collection, including the implementation of some pre-criminal procedures, it is necessary to enable the tax police, and this is the next position in the same member of the law, with co-operation with the MUP, can be brought in. It comes from experience, it's a country, and that's how I expect to bring a few of our Al Capones to justice and tax. That's the whole point of this provision. As for co-operation with the MUP itself, we have prepared all that is necessary for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance to sign the agreement provided for by the law, but we have been waiting to see if this esteemed home will vote on these changes, so that the agreement in co-operation is complete and will cover the whole law. In case you vote these changes and additions this week, in which case, if next week, those two ministries will come out very clearly with the ways we're going to co-operate on these very serious issues. The force must exist, but it must be applied with a measure and always in a certain way, given, and especially the history of our country, we think that this way that is proposed is the right measure. As for other elements, you will notice that the state has not only tried to increase its power towards tax bonds, of course to those who break the law. You will notice that the large number of changes proposed, which are of a technical nature, are there to comply fully with this law, means the origin law of the tax procedure and this procedural law and the organisational law, because it also covers the tax administration, with the Law that the National Assembly passed a few weeks ago, and this is the Law on the Law on Prosecution of Movement Rights. Here, if we look closely, we will see that the state has a transitional period where there are some privileges that exist in our country for a long time towards other creditors. However, after that transitional period, the state puts the issue in one equal position with other creditors and thus, this business climate and business mode will allow us to get close to some standards, not to tell Europeans, but to those who are normal, where people when they do business and when they get some moving thing as a stock for giving a job, there will no longer be after that transitional period in the situation that they did not want to, their right on the basis that they entered into the business with a given legal person is "breaked" by the fact that the state has much more rights in the process than the operators themselves. And in this way, we are preparing a situation where the state will have to go far more pedanticly into the same process as other legal entities, that in that register very pedantically and neatly and in time, and if it wants to lay down its rights to some moving things, it does. I think that's how, I'd say, the state comes down to its own legal measure. The third thing I'd like to say is to remind you of Article 186, just the meaning of this provision. This isn't a provision to start some witch hunt, this isn't a provision for small doors to move on to some tests, the origin of the property. If he has an appetite and a desire for it, then I think the relevant political parties should start it. That's not what's been suggested here. It's very important for our country to separate well. What's the subject of a criminal trial, where the law was broken, where there may have been some harmful occurrences. We had in tax terms measures that in themselves must be one-off. The measure proposed here is something to be applied in one normal procedure, which will exist in the years to come, and I know there will always be people who will say that it is not yet time for Serbia to introduce order, that it is not yet time because there is not enough trust that people... That it's not time yet because there's a risk that the entire capital will come out, that it will be placed elsewhere, not in our country. I know that there are arguments about it, but also because of that, the IRS, my Ministry and the entire government, and society, are being tested to implement one such provision in a valid way to enable the vast majority of people on one side. Believe the number of contacts shows that the vast majority of people are ready to underline that line, start showing their true economic strength. In particular, what is important is that for local self-government we have real property records, because this income is full of income from local self-government. And as we have a comparative experience, and what was once in Serbia, this source of income will be a very important source of income from local self-government. In this way, we will strengthen the budgets of local self-government, while at the same time approaching something that is not the subject of the dispute, which is that the tax should be paid according to economic power. After all, it is a question of the rate of progress that should exist in one society. There have been some changes to the Income Tax Act that were voted in this home in November last year. It's not time for a high rate of progressiveness, it seems to me in this society, but it would simply lead to a gray zone, but it should exist in terms of taxation towards real economic power. That's what this article 186 needs to provide. And there he would go back to Al Capone, and then he would separate that grain from the tiny weeds that would remain, people, natural persons, who wouldn't want the state behind them, which in a way that would be uniquely left in the gray zone, because they simply won't be able to demonstrate who this legal activity is that allows them to draw income, and hence the property. Then we expect that in 2004, with a very small number of people, I have to say that in a variety of environments it's clear and we'll see it in 2004. Then, the whole weight of the state and the blade of the law, especially this tax, with all those heavy penalties to turn to them. It will be justice, something that I'm sure will bring us closer to some ideal of just Serbia where everyone needs to pay taxes, moderate, but that they have to pay for their strength, and that those who avoid and thus shift to a much weaker whole burden of maintaining a country that has many problems, for them the state should treat it like anywhere in the world, with a big edge. This is how we allow this great majority to separate from that small minority. This is the meaning of Article 186. It is very important, and I agree with the MP who spoke about it, Pal Shandor, that it is very important to prove that those who respect the law, not only are they no longer targeted by those who do not respect it, but that the state and how it respects them, provides their privacy, and for security and other reasons. In any case, I can say that I am very clear on the internal plan, not only for those who have received, and there are not many, the powers to deal with the very centrified way of reporting this property, that any violation of that privacy will have direct and serious consequences for them themselves. This is not a subject for the media, it's not a subject for reciting, this is an object that will only go to centrals to a small number of people and through bar codes and only processing that data will be shared, so that one number of people, I don't want to tell you how many there are, but less than the fingers on one hand, which have the opportunity to access and have a united picture of a given taxpayer. You'll notice, one more thing that needs to strengthen the possibility of that privacy is that we've ruled out at this point, and I know it can be the subject of questions, and the artistic objects that, because of their assessment, should, if tax checks occur, they should be entered into the home and in some way at the bar violate that privacy. That is why we suggest that what is the right thing and the right source at this point in Serbia, which is cash in the account, outside the account, in the cash of real estate and everything that natural persons have in some form, roles and some equipment in their professional activity, it should be the subject of this law, rather than being vulgarized, I would say this whole very serious procedure. Finally, allowing tax checks on natural persons and in Serbia, because someone will talk about their grandmother's ring and their ducat. It's not an object, it's not a question. The question is much more serious. The question is the fair taxation of the great majority in economic strength, and the isolation of that small minority who does not want order, who wants to transfer the whole burden of the state to others, much weaker than they are, and that it draws huge revenues for itself by avoiding any taxation. That's the whole point of this, and that's why we want to do it in one real professional way, and by the end of October it will be done. As for the sales tax, if we start from the lease, of course no one here wants to give priority to the financial lease. On the contrary, this is only a way to establish equality between dealing with this activity and selling goods. If the National Assembly votes these changes that are now with us because this law on financial lease was passed, then the activity would be double taxed. You know who the IRS is. It's a leaser, and the state is secure enough to avoid tax evasion. So I would disagree with those who say that this leads to great privileges for those who go through the financial lease. On the contrary, this is what should allow fiscal neutrality for one such activity, and I would not look back at it because some speakers have talked about it, which is the good side of the financial lease and which is why it is not only for companies, but also for public enterprises, public services and the state can make it possible in a smarter way, much more flexible to manage basic assets. It's a new option that opens up in front of us, and I'm sure it will provide additional savings. As for the press and the books, it is true that even at the moment this first wave of tax reform was proposed to this home in April 2001, there were amendments that suggested that a number of goods be released from sales taxes. Indeed, some MPs at the time proposed some amendments that proposed abolishing the sales tax on the printed media. But there's time for everything. At one point, it was necessary to consider the possibility for public finances to stand on their feet. Are they very strong? I wouldn't say that, the reality that in one country, which is just recovering from the great collapse, they're in a much better condition, but they're still fragile. That's why we have to be very careful about all the things that are related to both the income and the routing sides, but the time is also because through the very fierce competition on the one hand, and on the other hand, it seems to me to be a big consensus that will show up in the vote on this measure, that maybe it's not a moment for just a rough match between the printed media, that for a while, until democracy is strengthened, the institutions are even more valid. In our country it is worth having as a society and all citizens one concession to these very specific people and this activity of printed media, which performs a very important function in a democracy, which is to inform us objectively. That's why, you'll notice, there are no provisions, no commissions, no censors who would say "yes" about this, and this is what we vote "no". Of course, by preparing for a conversation with the editors-in-chief, who prepared this, especially Prime Minister Zivkovic, who strongly supported this measure, we have looked at how we can enable readings that spread racial or other forms of intolerance, religious, for example, in which we can avoid them without talking about pornography. However, other laws have been found there. We have a law that you have voted here before and that has allowed it to be eliminated, that it is not even possible to register, and secondly, this will cover only those who have valid registration, which in itself eliminates all those who violate many of these democratic principles that I was talking about earlier. By the way, we're able to free it in principle. For a minute, I'm going to look at the question that's constantly going on, which we keep coming back to, if we're talking about tax policy, if there's one topic that's always there, not just with us, but everywhere we're talking about taxation, then that's whether we need a lower rate for something, whether we need to get rid of a tax. The arguments we've heard are simply not supported by facts. It is that those who think tax liberation is the way a social group can be helped, and only she, that in some way tax liberation and the way social policy is implemented, then I would say that we already have it in Serbia and not only in the past regime, but in the last two years, there is a lot of evidence that tax liberation is actually one regressive measure, or translated into Serbian -- in fact, from tax liberation, the ones who are more economically powerful. It may look like a paradox, but it's because that tax release goes and is given as some form of subsidy in the same way to everyone, meaning both the rich and the poor. When we talk about diapers and other things for babies, of course it seems logical, of course, that demographics are important, that natural growth is important, and the big problem is in our country, but the question is whether it's the most effective way, because that's how it is then released theoretically. It reduces the theoretical price but it decreases by everything, and for those who can bear a higher price than behind the one for which it is today a problem. That's why I'm going to give an example that shows that it's very careful to deal with these tax exemptions. We have a much more efficient way of implementing this social policy, in a right way, and this is on a disputable foreign budget, with the criteria that my colleague Gordana Matkovic has proposed to this home, and a number of laws that you have voted on, which is exactly what she is offering, so that it is better aimed at helping those families, only those social groups and only those who need that help. Thus, much more can be helped in dinars when it is better targeted than with one measure of tax liberation, which treats everything in the same way. But then you'll tell me -- well, then, where's the contradiction? Aren't you in clear contradiction when you're talking about it today you're proposing a release from the press tax. There is a problem that is difficult to imagine, given the opportunities in society, in which one policy could be implemented on the divisive side towards the media. We can see very easily that if we try to apply what I was talking about and to the media, then the question is, who decides how much to give the book, by which criteria, and then the whole effect of that measure would be lost. Therefore, for this specific example, it is appropriate to go to this rate of "zero" and to exempt from sales taxes. However, let us take an example of edible oil. This house voted a few months ago to exclude taxes on foodable oil. Of course, if we look at the number of exemptions we now have in our tax legislation, we'll see that we only have what we can't do without and without which economists would say -- what's inert, means where you have large or low incomes, you need milk, you need bread, you need oil, you need sugar, and also for the very wide layers of our society, and even for the poorest, you need it as necessary, and that minimum basket today is free from sales taxes. We are the only country in Europe that has a zero rate on all these basic foods, to remind, fresh fruit and vegetables, and fish and meat, many things that have made it possible - so much better life, and if you look at this experience in the global, it's not bad, if we look at the price of these foods and how much purchasing power for the wide layers of our society is helped by these measures of tax policy, which you've adopted. But it's not some automation either, and we realize that today, if we look at the issue of edible oil, when one such measure falls on a sector that's in a lot of things carteled, where there are few bidders, or a little further in the chain of merchants, then we realize that today, according to the calculations made by colleagues from the Ministry of Trade, we see that what was the release last year and that made it possible for the price of edible oil to fall for about 10 to 15 dinars in all shops, to some extent and not everywhere, we have some traders who are able to sell edible oil for 58.5 dinar today, while others are already selling for 10 dinars more. Why? Do they buy more expensive oil than the manufacturer? No, I don't. Is what was the reason we heard the public debate two or three weeks ago, when the price of edible oil was raised, whether and the price of edible packaging and everything else explains enough what was proposed and implemented through the increased price of edible oil. I say "no" responsibly! Yeah, there's been a shift, but it only applies to one to two dinars, and in no case can it explain as much increase as we've seen. The best proof of that is that some wholesalers, some chains, are able to sell, and what's the difference? The difference is simple - some collect two to five percent of the trade margin, while others take 15 to 20% of the trade margin on edible oil and I wonder if it's one smart policy on the long term. It is their question, but in this way I want to illustrate that unfortunately in our country, and of course more where there are more catalizations in the given sectors, because then it is easier to "track" it, not to say something more stringent, in terms of establishing a price for consumers, unfortunately in our country we see that the elimination of sales tax not only is it not a safe measure to reduce the price for consumers, but it is to allow for an increase in the cost of consumer margins, and of course it is not an idea. When you add to this the fact that this measure is applied in the same way to consumers then we only see that these are some of the measures that are far from the progressiveness that we are talking about. And we will have to, and that is a very important question raised by the DSS MP, to raise the issue of added value. We will have in the National Assembly a quick and debate about this if we come up with value added tax, which are releases, in what way, which are the rates, which we should have when we introduce this last modern fiscal form that our country still has, and we are truly the last with BiH in all of Europe without that fiscal form. That's what I'd like to add to the deadline for the introduction of fiscal registers. I wouldn't talk about it much today because the government simply didn't adopt one such measure. Because of the collegiation towards the government, until the government adopts a measure, even not to mention it at all, but it is clear that we are preparing for the introduction of value added tax and the additional reason for a somewhat longer period for the introduction of fiscal cash registers is because it is necessary to introduce them once but well, and then you come to the field and say, when the fiscal cash register is set, the appropriate rate of credit is then it is very important that the whole process is not repeated and verified by the tax administration several times. Therefore, there must be a coincidence both in dates and in operations at the moment when the cash registers are introduced, and to translate -- it is very important that everything is known and that everything is stable at the moment when fiscal cash registers are introduced, which is, of course, related to the introduction of value added tax, which I expect on 1 January 2004. There'll be plenty of talk about it some other time. Here, I wanted to say so much about these two laws, and I also thank you for your attention and, of course, I urge you to vote again and support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32376	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Ljubomir Mucic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32377	Mrs Comic, I had to commit myself to advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure - Rule 137 and just to say - the debate is being held in particular by the members to whom the amendments and amendments are proposed to introduce new provisions and where all the rapporteurs of the committee, president or representative of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative, so that I report as a representative of the parliamentary group. If you give me your word, and if you don't, I'll tell you why I answered it in three minutes. I think through this example, and the example of the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32378	People's MP, you have to say when a member of 137 was injured and who didn't get a word and, as a rule, in the discussion in particular?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32379	I did not win as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group under Article 137!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32380	When didn't you get the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32381	When I asked, before it was about article nine. You said that article 9 was accepted by the government, but it is not voted on, but debate can be held - and debate is under way. I mean, but I just want to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32382	People's MP, I ask you to listen to the explanation, since you insist on having a debate about something you have no right to in the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister and the committees have accepted the amendment and the amendment has become an integral part of the bill, as such, not subject to Article 137. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32383	No, he's not the one to be voted on. It is a 145th non-voting article, but the minister, in my opinion, said that we should take a stenogram, he said the government would see around this deadline for extending the deadline for the introduction of fiscal tills and that member is pragmatic. As an authorised representative, I mean, you're introducing one practice to make any changes to the law later...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32384	People's MP, I thank you for making a complaint about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32385	... And you're introducing a practice to amend all the laws through the addition of members we'll be able to change the whole law, as is the case here. A new member is added here to change the existing member. So, through the changes on the budget, we'll be able to change, see if Mr. Pajtic accepts, as he suggested and accepted. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32386	Your objection does not refer to holding a session. People's MP, would you like to hear the explanation? So, your remark concerns the fact that an amendment which, by substance, is proposed to add a new Article 9 after Article 8, and I ask you to make such a remark, not to refer to Article 137, because it is an amendment that has become an integral part of the bill and you do not have the right to speak. I would have the right as chairman to interpret this as a disrespect of the Presidency and the National Assembly, but without doubting your good intentions, of course, I will not do so. We have carried out this search of the bill in principle and in particular, and the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE AS A GUARANT TO THE EUROPEAN TERMINATION AND RETAINING BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC FOR THE TRADE You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the Republic Roads Directorate, I am opening the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before the search is concluded, I ask whether the proposing representative, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Finance and Economy Minister, wants the final word? Yeah. ) The word has a finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32387	Thank you very much. I would just like to show you, to point out, since there have been a lot of questions in the discussion about southern Serbia about what is covered by this loan, what are the priorities and I would like to show you one map. This loan, which is at the age of 15 at four, and the interest is fixed on the euroibar plus 1%, is about 4% a year, the borrower is the Road Directorate and today we are talking about the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia's budget for this loan. This 76m-euro loan is here to support the strongly five years of rehabilitation of our travel network and that is all 489,9 km and I would like to give you the most important shares that will be rehabilitated this way: On the road M-1, 149,8 km, it is Batocina-Doljevac; 92.5 km Pečevci - Macedonian border, that is, as regards the corridor itself 10 so-called. And that's what the orange here is indicated on this map. We also have what comes to corridor 10, that's the most important route in our country, and that's what lotes 9 and 10 means length 117.4 km, Stavica - Nevada - Stepojevac - front Chitluk and front Čačak, that's this part. Also, we have 66.8 km of Niška Banja - Bulgaria's border, meaning, a foot towards Sofia, and finally, 63.4 km of Matarushka Banja - Fishing towards Raška. So, it's all nearly 500 kilometers of rehabilitation. If we look at Serbia's map, we will see that everything here is in color and this part concerning the New Sad and Belgrade, and it goes directly from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. We see that where nothing has been invested since January 2001, so until today, it will continue, it is our entire priority road network that is rehabilitating. It's easy to get into the demagogue itself, say -- we need roads everywhere, the reality is that by today there are plenty of directions, the highway is not necessary, given how much flow there is, of course, if there was a highway, there would be more vehicles, we're all aware of that, especially those who are more invited than me to talk about it, but roads, road network and whole infrastructure is the key priority of public funding in terms of budget giving, and there's a lot more resources allocated after two and a half years and extra funding, we get from donations and from these very favourable loans. I would just like to point out that, at the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a presentation of what was public spending last year and what was spent on and what was the priority in the first six months of this year and what plans from public spending for the rest of the year were held in 10 days. In this way, I hope there will be enough interest, I am sure that the Committee will invite you all, to see transparently what is being spent and what are priorities, but the travel network and this counter-guarantee will strongly support it and it is one of the great priorities in the years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32388	I'm concluding a search of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: - the election, ceases to function, the decision on the amendment of the number of judges and judges in the courts, which has submitted the High Council of Justice; 2) the motion for a decision on the termination of the jurisdiction of judges and special courts of 26 May 2003, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 3) the motion for a decision on the termination of the judicial office of the judges of the General Court and the Special Court of Justice of 2 July 2003, which was submitted by the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice; 7) the proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's jurisdiction, which was submitted to the Court of Justice and to the Court of Justice of Justice and to the Court of Justice of Justice and to the Court of Justice of Justice in the Court of Justice, 5 July 2003; the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of Justice, adopted the Court of Justice of Justice, adopted the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice, adopted the Court of Justice, adopted the Court of Justice in the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of In addition, you have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of the draft decisions tabled by the High Council of Justice and the proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a letter from the chairman of the High Council of Justice proposing that the motions for a decision on the election of judges from 22 April, 27 May and 1 July 2003, with an addition of 4 July 2003, be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, as an act on the election of judges. You have been presented with a proposal from the High Council of Justice to give up the proposal to elect Vladan Vukcevic as Serbian Supreme Court Judge. I remind you that according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately to the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the order of the Members of Parliament. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. I would really ask the MPs to have an elementary confidence in the chairman if he knew and to open the agenda point and to look at the clock and to pray without verbal communication of that kind, now and in the future. So, after the opening of a single search, I set a break of up to 15.00 hours when we will continue to present representatives of the proposings, Professor Dr Dragor Hiber, Committee President and Sonja Brkic, the chairman of the High Council for Justice. I would like to inform you that the 54th session of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled for Wednesday 9 July 2003 with a start at 14.00 hours in the National Assembly building in the Bureau Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32389	Dear People's MPs, please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and we can continue the debate on the 5th point of the agenda - Selection, termination of functions, or resolution of judicial function holders. I ask if they want to take part in the debate of the proposing representatives, the chairman of the Justice Committee or the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia? (They are not present). Does the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) We will conduct the debate according to applications for the word of the MPs in a single search, decisions in the field of justice. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, according to Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure. The time allowed is five minutes for MP Velimir Simonovic. Next reported is Pal Shandor, the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32390	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to talk about names and these lists. I just want to point out one fact that's quite surprising to me. Namely, I don't understand how competitions for the selection of judges are being discussed, and how they can compete for a Supreme Court judge, someone who's an expert associate in court, someone who's a judge for violations, someone who's a director of the sector in an Inx, someone who's just a graduate lawyer, and so, someone who doesn't even have some kind of court practice. Someone would tell me now - so they're not proposed for a choice. That's true, but how could they possibly compete, what the text of the contest even looks like, that some referent might appear as a candidate for the Supreme Court. I've got a second list here, and the same goes for county judges. For example, a certain gentleman, an operational worker of Serbia's MUP, or, say, an expert associate somewhere, or a legal reference appears in some ministry or adviser in some RGZ, etc. For catastral immovableities, etc. So these are surprises for me, and I believe that these competitions must be so called that they know exactly what qualifications a candidate for a district court judge may appear with, and especially for a Supreme Court judge. These competitions were obviously not good as people without any qualifications for the highest titles, such as the Supreme Court Judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32391	The word has been issued by MP Pal Shandor, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform. Next reported is MP Petar Jojic, a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32392	Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, I came forward because I have several principled objections to what the High Council of Justice has instructed us here. First, I should like to express my dissatisfaction that Mrs. Brkic did not find it appropriate, that as a proposing representative, in this case, the Committee is not a proposing, comes to the session and defends what the High Council of Justice has proposed and possibly gives an explanation. I'd like to ask you first - did you invite Mrs. Brkic to the session, I suppose?- I'm sorry. (President: yes. ) Please, she was not at the Committee's session either, and her relationship with the Committee and the Assembly itself is like "a duck school". It's really illegal for her not to come to the session and if she had a number of suggestions, and I'd have a lot to ask her, possibly something to suggest. Therefore, if we thought that Mrs. Brkic should perform that function in time and choose her where she is, the basic order of her relationship with this assembly is to come to the session when she should come and answer questions and give some explanation. I answered because I would like to ask Mrs. Brkic, I am unable to, so I would suggest that the High Council of Justice does not care enough about the representation of members of national minorities in the exercise of judicial functions. I have heard on the Committee that there are 2,500 systematicized and some judges in Serbia, if Hungarians make up 2% of the population, then it is approximately, assuming that our natural abilities are equal, at least 50 judges from the Hungarian national minority. There's certainly not that many of them. Mrs. Brkic will be defended by the fact that the Hungarians may not report to the competition, and then the High Judicial Council is not in a position to choose them. That's not true, of course, because, for example, in the County Court of Zrenjanin of 20 reported, four were Hungarians and there are no Hungarians in the District Court and she didn't find anyone appropriate to suggest them, from people where they are. The other thing is, why aren't the Hungarians picking up. Hungarians don't appear because their social promotion is possible, so that means we're choosing them for these judicial functions, very narrowed down, and I'd say somewhere and disabled! If you look at how many judges there are in municipalities where Hungarians make up a number of people, relative or absolute majority, that number is natural because there are as many Hungarian lawyers as Serbs. Why aren't they answering? Because I repeat once again, they think they won't be chosen anyway. I must say this, too, that there will be a complete absurdity now, in this situation where we think we are a more democratic society than there were two or three years ago, that there will be fewer members of Hungary's nationality at court functions, than there were during Mr Milosevic's time. Why? Because Mr Milosevic was clever enough, and then he told his Hungarians from the SPS or JUL to compete and then at least he was quite satisfied, and now democracy will bring us to a sufficient extent that we are not represented according to our natural abilities, where we should be represented. It's a big failure and a big failure. Secondly, I think that in that law that regulates this whole issue, it should be said that in the midst where Hungarians make up a certain percentage of the population, that a certain number of judges will be elected according to the language of the local community, which would be acceptable and a signal to minority members to compete, to register with hope and the possibility of being elected. So, when we, under a firm of real abilities, always choose those who don't know the language of the middle, then we get one situation that doesn't correspond to the population, which is that in Vienna, if I know correctly, you have out of eight judges those two who know Hungarian, or they are Hungarians, and the sixth are members who can't judge in Hungarian. Assuming that Serbs and Hungarians are equally tried in the municipal court, you can see that Hungarians have to work three times more if they are to be tried in Hungarian. Generally, the High Council of Justice does not do its job well here, and Mrs. Brkic would have to give some explanations as to why such a proposal is what it is. Only in Subotica has one proposal passed for a judge who is Hungarian, and in Ada. Why in Ada? In Ada, two candidates applied and simply could not avoid being Hungarian, because one of them had to be proposed. So, I would generally, because of the problems I've raised, and the same case is, say, in Topoli or very similar where the inadequate number of judges is neither approximately commensurate with the national composition. So I would dispute the choice of judges in Backo Topoli and Vienna. In Vienna, there is an even more absurd situation where someone who is from Novi Sad is proposed, and has people who were born there, who grew up in that court and progressed, so they are not suggested from that environment. I, of course, must be fenced that the candidate, who is proposed, is a Roma nationality, but I think there could have been another place better for him than in Vienna, where Roma do not make up the percentage of the population that matters. Maybe he could have found himself in a county court, we're sorting out in New Sad or somewhere else. I understand that for political reasons, it is important and therefore not the slow appointment of this candidate in Vienna because I have something against him personally, but I don't think that it can be a proper proposal in principle. I also don't think the New Vienna proposals are adequate. So both candidates and the County Court in Zrenjanin. I hope that the High Council of Justice in the future, when he proposes to us the lists of candidates for judges, will take care of what I said here today, as one of the important criteria, because it should not happen that we, by entering democracy, completely lose any national criteria and that members of minorities under the false firm assessing the true abilities fall into less democratic representation than in previous systems.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32393	National MP Zarko Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32394	I came out on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group for the presentation of counterparts Pal Shandor. Namely, he used one formulation -- Hungarians from the Socialist Party of Serbia. You see, whatever is done is wrong, because when one policy or one game is to be removed, then different, almost impossible arguments are used. Now Pal Shandor himself has been granted that it will happen that in this election the judges have fewer judges members of the Hungarian minority community, than it was at a time when they were Socialists and not having any other rational answer for it said - the Hungarian Socialists. You know, gentlemen and you, Mr. Pal Shandor, there are no Hungarian socialists, such as or such. There are Hungarian people who are citizens of this Republic, who have certain rights, who have certain obligations. Their party membership is their thing, and you really look and you find the answer to why they were before when the Socialists were able to create that part of the policy, why there were more than now. You'll get an answer to that question. We tried all the time that minority policy was as an integral part of state policy, so that everyone could be equally represented and we did everything we could to make it happen. Whether we've succeeded more or less, it's up to you, but this argument of yours doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32395	Right on the line, MP Pal Shandor. What do you mean, it's gone? This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. He didn't get credit for the replica. The MP praised Slobodan Milosevic's policy and this was not a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32396	I really praised Slobodan Milosevic's policy, but the bottom line is the next one. All of us less that the judges and the names were chosen in municipalities where the Hungarians were the majority population. Please, Mr. Obradovic, there was someone who was opposition to the SPS simply couldn't pass without being a member of the national minority. So he couldn't get past any who were possibly neutral or possibly not forced to enroll in the SPS or JUL, but the model was the following: the competition was open, then they told him - join the SPS or JUL, compete and we will choose you. The perfection of politics was exactly what it was, and I don't want to say it, and I don't think that's how we should do it right now, but we have to do it so that our distributions of abilities are equal. Now I'm going to tell you one more thing that's absurd. According to what they are called transition societies, and we are a society in transition, members of national minorities are less generally using their political rights than in societies that preceded them because they existed so-called. It's the key, so it's the so-called key. The key took care of the national representation of individual peoples, ethnicities and minorities in certain bodies. That's why one part of the Duke Hungarians thinks that the autonomy of Vojvodina is the real thing that they need to fight for, because they know, and that's the whole story again, because they know when they came to Novi Sad at a train station or at a bus station speaker in five languages, saying that the bus from that and that place is coming to that bus station, that is, in so many and so many hours. And all this transition time, when we go towards some democratic processes, and that's the only area that's pretty boisterous, the minority team is being realized in some other way, and not in this way that someone from one center prescribes how many percent of the members of the national minorities should be there. The problem is that they did not represent their national minority in the right sense at the time, but represented a particular policy or party as members of the national minority. We are finally behind that time, and I think that our natural capacity distribution should be achieved on some other basis, in order to be natural, that at the train station in Novi Sad or somewhere else, and now in five languages it says that the bus or train has arrived from some direction, but the mechanism of achieving these rights must be different, not that the SPS says - my members of the Hungarians must be represented on those lists, because we know that the Hungarians from the SPS did not represent in a legitimate way what was a Hungarian national minority. Since the first multilateral elections, we know simply statisticalally who the Hungarians voted for, and yet it was not Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS. So what I've just said and what I stand for is that this exercise of the rights of national minorities is being formulated in another way, and naturally it would be best to say to all other members of national minorities that they belong to as many places, whether in the judicial positions or the school director, as many as are simply percentages in the population. We're way below that now, and I wanted to tell Mrs. Brkic to take care of it. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) I did not dispute that Oscar Kovac was a good economist and that Hungary, but Oscar Kovac did not represent members of the Hungarian national minority in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32397	As deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic applied for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32398	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected colleagues, someone would, apparently, like to put national minorities in the ghetto to determine which political parties they should join or want to return to for a while "key" at some time, Tito's time. We hope that we have overcome that time and that we are a society in which every citizen, regardless of his nationality, can use his constitutional rights, that is to say, every profession, every place, every school, regardless of the language he speaks, religion or nationality. I didn't like the discussion that preceded me after this speaker, because such a potential for national minorities and the question of national minorities, especially when it comes to the judiciary, is something that is unacceptable from the SRS' point of view, first of all, our interference with the judicial system that must be a completely separate branch, as far as possible. Now we have tried to maximise it, systemically, legally, from Parliament, from the government, and is it really so in reality, I think you all know very well that it is not, that now there is more pressure on the judiciary than ever before and that party membership or non-community is the only reason for all of this that we have on the agenda today. Therefore, there is no "key" in the judiciary if someone has the ability and meets the conditions to report to the competition and has references for a particular court and to carry some judicial function. I don't think anyone in this country would ask that as a question, at least that's how we in the SRS look at things, and that's how we've always acted. The key time is far behind us. I wanted to refer, first of all, to this memo we received today on the benches of the High Council of Justice, which informs us that at the session held on 9 July 2003, Vladan Vukcevic, a lawyer, was elected to the Supreme Court in Belgrade. It's a good thing they gave up on this, because one lawyer to go directly to the Supreme Court, it's a really nonsensical that's totally unacceptable to us. It would be good if the High Council of Justice had given us at least some explanation, which is why they gave up and what happened in these two months, so this proposal is now not correct, or why it was similar on 22 April, or it had all the references required for such a high judicial function, and on July 9th, some of these references were lost. It's just proof of how to manipulate people who prefer certain judicial functions. This contributes to the influence of the judiciary, thus leading its human and party policy. We also have an opinion from the Committee on Justice and Management, or a report that the Committee did not support a proposal from the High Council of Justice for a number of functions in the municipal and district courts in Serbia. We do not know what the fate of this report will be and how the parliamentary majority will plead on the proposal of the Supreme Council of Justice, which concerns these courts. I hope that he will take into account the opinion of the Committee that should be respected. Mr. Hiber didn't appreciate this parliament saying anything about it. It is evident that we have a proposal from the Great Personal Council for the discharge of the duties of individual judges due to unprofessional and unconscious business, business, potential, and therefore provides us with a proposal for a decision on the resolution of these judges. There are 18 of them. The explanation is absolutely humiliating for Parliament, because in neither single sentence nor for any of these 18 judges, the Greater Personally Greater Parliament does not inform what they have done, or what they have not done, so it is necessary to get rid of it. It's clear here that it's a lustration, and I don't really know any judge, most of them all from the inside. Given that there is no explanation, I have the right to doubt, knowing the essence of the Dossian authorities and Mr Batic, that it is a lustration in the judiciary. I wonder why there is no judge, Danko Lausevic, who we happen to know, is the judges of the Fifth Municipal Court, who, because of the harsh violation of material and procedural law and who has therefore been brought up with the initiative to resolve the Supreme Council of Justice, including the Supreme Court, the District Court and the President of the Fifth Court, Mr Baćovic, who, meanwhile, has become the President of the District Court, who has reached a verdict that has imposed the probation of Dr Vojislav Seselj on the case of Canet Zappac, who was annulled by the District Court. Such Danko Lausevic will not be found on this list of non-matched, I am convinced of that while this Dossovna government is. Also, we have a proposal for a decision that a large number of judges, on a personal request, submits and requests that the office cease. It's getting symptomatic already. It's not the first time this has happened to us. The material is quite extensive, and it all looks like a fugitive from the judiciary of judges who do not want to or cannot succumb to the influences and pressures of the authorities to do as their conscience or judicial function does not require. On the bad staff policy in this proposal, if you have looked at it better and if anyone has looked at it from those who will probably vote for these proposals, you will see that there is a full-scale selection, so to speak, a negative selection in the judiciary that will cost us dearly, because in competition sometimes a dozen candidates who prefer a certain function here are chosen here by a man who has no working experience in the judiciary. Let's just say, especially here, it looks like the most desirable authorities and the great personal council attorneys for whom there are places everywhere, even in courts. It used to be the other way around. Justice people go slowly to lawyers when they're in retirement, when they get tired or because of low wages. Now one lawyer goes to the judiciary and it's known on what salary and it's in itself quite symptomatic. I've highlighted such examples. There's a lot of them. There are also those who are simply astounding. Let's say the Municipal Court in Bolovac, Opačić Miroslava, Secretary of the Municipality, please, SO Bolec is now elected Judge of the Municipal Court in Bolovac. I can imagine how many expert associates there are in the court itself, which may never be because they are not in a political party to experience being elected judge. Therefore, here is why, for the District Court judge in Zrenjanin, a certain Hungarian Radoslava is elected, which I happen to know is Prijic's cousin, in the competition of many older and more experienced judges, so I was able to see a connection that points to the existence and nepotism of this system.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32399	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32400	The right to tell you I could talk for three hours about this problem, but I'm thinking about something and what to tell you. There's those ten minutes, as soon as you vote. If you do it for all of us as soon as possible. Let it all go to ruin, so we can finally go to that election and make the people war.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32401	So you don't want to use ten minutes. You gave up. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32402	Ladies and gentlemen, I would not agree until the end with Gordana Pop-Lazic, because I believe that some of the mistakes made in the system, such as the court, can leave the consequences that neither the elections can solve. It is therefore important to point out some gaps if there are, already now, to try simply to avoid possible consequences. I have to say, with disappointment, it's working the same way as in the SPS. Judges on the DOS party line are elected judges and suggest they be judges. It's something that's not good, no matter what we've gone out and transferred to the proposer, the Supreme Council of Justice, but because of some of the changes that were in the Council, we come to a situation where people who shouldn't be there are also. That there are skipping functions, no internships, that's all that doesn't contribute to building strong courts as institutions in Serbia, we have, and that's what it is, that judges are proposed by government officials who are candidates to be judges, which is not good. People who don't have a job in the judiciary. I will show on one case only that the two parties can agree. A former member of JUL Pajtic Mirjana, a district court judge in Vladimirci who has moved to the DHSS, is now running to elect a district court in Sapac. She was like JUL's fit, participated in their promotions, and as such elected to court, and is now elected as DHSS candidate in the District Court. The second example is the head of the service or head of the municipal affairs department in Sapac, in the Assembly of the Municipality of Sabac, Diana Dragovic, a member of the Democratic Party, is now being elected judge of the Municipal Court in Sapac. These are two examples showing that it has not far gone from party-proposed party members to judicial authorities. I don't think that's good, and that way we won't build a judiciary, but we'll act the way our predecessors acted. We see what they left us with the judiciary. We see what we inherited from the judiciary. We inherited judges who were party-like, and capable judges became lawyers. They escaped outside the courts. Not just for small profits, but for not being tried. Now it's happening the same way here. If we have resolved at an extraordinary session of judges who have been old enough to retire at work for 65 years, why do we still have judges in Serbia who are over 65 years old who have not been resolved by the High Council of Justice. More colleagues from Budishin will talk about it, say in Nis, the President of the District Court is over 65 years old. No one touched him to get rid of him. Why? Probably because he's a member of a party, and it's no longer a question, but a rule. We resolved Leposava Karamarkovic, Ivosevic and all the other judges because they crossed that 65-year border. This suggests that both these and all other changes in the judiciary are unfortunately burdened by party membership. This way we haven't gotten far from what we had and these judges aren't going to help anyone to hold on to power or anything else. These judges, as they have moved from JUL to DHSS, will soon give up DHSS tomorrow and start doing something different than from other parties. It simply does not contribute to the construction of the judiciary as an independent and free to serve under the law. The democratic party of Serbia certainly cannot support such changes in the judiciary. We're sorry that there are people here who really deserve to be promoted and elected to municipal or county courts and who really deserve to do this job, because they've been through one school and who aren't party members of what we know. It is simply that these examples strike everyone else and characterise our judiciary still as a party, and therefore MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia cannot support such a change in the judiciary, plus that there is no Sonja Brkic or anyone else who would explain, come out and give us some arguments on the issues he asks in front of the High Council of Justice. If not this, at least on the board. It was not on the Committee either, and I think this proposal may have to be postponed until we have the necessary explanation for some candidates for judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32403	Right to replica MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32404	I have to tell my colleagues Michael and my colleagues from the DSS, who can't help but hook up with the SPS. It's probably left in their blood somehow, but I have to say that the DSS has one systemic error. They'd like to be the government, and they can't and won't with the original DOS. They'd like to be the real opposition, and they can't be the real opposition, because they can't be because they vote for DOS proposals. This choice of judges was made according to the draft law made by the DSS. If the choice is wrong, that's why the DSS has its share of guilt. Don't let them shed crocodile tears and mention the SPS. If it's no good, it's the responsibility of whoever suggested it. We were, you don't have to support me, I'll say it without it. Therefore, fellow DSS colleagues, in time watch what you do and how you do and because of your Rules of Procedure, you see the situation we have come into.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32405	The word has been made by MP Petar Jojic, and then by MP Borisvoje Katic, the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wonder if this assembly only needs to declare the decisions of the High Council or to discuss and that the High Council is making bills and giving valid explanations which it proposes for the judge and who it is to the prosecutor. This is inadmissible that there is no Supreme Court president here today, that there is no High Council president and that there is no one from the Ministry who should give an explanation to the people's representatives, the MPs. This assembly can't be closed and sealed, and they can do whatever they want, and we can just raise our hands here or press the key. That's more inadmissible. What does this proposal mean? This means one "nothing." This is one "nothing" because there's no valid explanation here. There is no justification for certain proposals, whether for county or municipal courts or for commercial courts or the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, individually, compared to the proposal we received in 30.6.2003. Six judges are elected to the High Court of Commerce. I don't mind, but I wonder, why this discrimination, that from the inside, that there are no candidates from any region who have competed without being proposed for the Supreme Court Judge. Does this mean that the Belgrade lobby in the judiciary does not allow people from other regions, other municipalities, and other districts to compete and cannot be judges of the Supreme Court? And when you watch who is all proposed in the Higher Trade Court: Knezevic Natasa, Marković Vera, Nešović Ljiljana, Pavlovic Ivana, Stamenković Jasmina and only proposed it from this other side, I can say from the stronger sex, Janković Dragoljub, so five to one (votes - discrimination). Furthermore, the Belgrade Trade Court is elected Bratic Lejla, Spahović Ivanka, Vukovic Ivana and Ćalić Ljiljana. So there's a phenomenon in Belgrade -- the Higher Commercial Court in Belgrade -- you have ten to three -- that means ten is a lady and we only have three men's judges. I don't mind. but the reference for the Trade Court, further, was proposed in Zajecar, Vidinović Slobodanka, at the Trade Court in Kraševec Marić Daniela, in Nis Stosic Zorica, further in Pozarevc Karaklajic Zvezdan, Užica Vukanovic Jasminka. [[votes - discrimination, applause]] Maybe that's what the proposer wanted, but I think it had to be taken care of; in 1999 in one municipal court there were 16 judges of which 13 were women and at the same time nine were on maternity leave, so they had to share jobs (votes - aaaaaaaaaaaaaa) please and see the male side took over the successful job, they successfully replaced their colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposals for these candidates had to be followed by complete evidence of their expertise. This is where the MPs were to be presented - if someone comes for a judge of a higher or county court, behind him must be everything he's done and what his results are. If he was a judge in a lower court, he had to stand. How many decisions he's made over the last three years have been confirmed, how modified and how abolished. Now, that's proof of his expertise. Therefore, it is not permitted for the MPs here to discuss candidates and to know who is coming to which court, and the court is the greatest authority in the state. The court says 40 years in prison. The court has earlier, in this country, pronounced death sentences, therefore it is power. When people enter that power, when they decide on the fate of the people and the citizens of this state, we need to be fellow Members of Parliament, whether the regime of power or the opposition, to know who comes for the judge in which court. And will he meet all the criteria of the imamemerill to be a judge, to share justice and to protect the Constitution, interests and the law. I'd like to refer to this municipal court in Capco. Please, in Sapac you have, again, unfortunately, but it is said positively, and if it is a positive practice to show, and this will be shown according to the results, you have in the District Court to propose Dražić Radenka, Lazić Biljana, Pajić Olivera, Pajtic Mirjana, and in the Municipality court in Šapco, there are five ladies who do not have valid evidence of what is behind their work that they have earned such high recognition to be judges in the District Court. This is especially true when it comes to Diana Dragovic in Capco. He works at the Department of Communal Affairs. What does that mean? She works at the Department of Communal Affairs and gives her the highest authority in the state to share justice and to impose 40-year sentences. So where's that?- I'm sorry. We're the only ones who can do that.- I'm sorry. It's nowhere to be found!- I'm sorry. When it comes to the resolution of judges because of intricacies, please, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, read what it is that these people, and they are here 18, have not done well in the judiciary. What's that? There's no evidence, and there's no explanation, to be said, because their decisions are lifted by senior courts, which the citizens are suffering from harm, which is making inexhaustible decisions, which violates the law to convictions and courts, therefore, this cannot go through. A representative of the motionors had to sit here and account for the Members of the People's Parliament. They've raped themselves, they're left alone, they're just looking at the Assembly to declare these decisions and to... (appluz; votes: bravo Pero, bravo).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32407	The word has the People's MP Borisvoje Katic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32408	It really is, Mr. Jojic's fire. I was afraid to go out for a pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my disputation regarding these candidates of the County Court in Sapac, most of the moment for principled reasons, because last time we discussed these proposals was a proposal to challenge the candidates and was asked to first elect the President of the District Court in Šapec and only then to discuss the judges. That was accepted. This house has accepted it, and now the same people are proposing, so for the same reasons, I want to challenge it in principle because the President of the District Court has not been elected at the Sapco. I want to challenge the candidates, i.e. The proposal by the judge for the County Court of Capac, since the Justice Committee did so on three names that I will not repeat. I would, therefore, like to challenge Mrs Dražić Radenko and Lazic - Ivanović Biljan, for principle reasons, so that I consider it necessary, given the whole situation in Šapac regarding the judiciary to elect the President of the District Court and then to discuss candidates for the District Court judges. As for Mrs Pajtic Mirjana, who was here, even one of my predecessors mentioned that she was a member of the JUL, and that she had moved to the Democratic Party, it is true that she was in JUL, but it is obvious that my predecessor had made some mistakes with the party she now belongs to, because she came as a proposal to the Democrats' initiative in the Justice Committee itself and was challenged. Believe me, he's not a member of the Democratic Party and I have to say it here. Whose member is really not interested in me, and I really want the Assembly to accept this proposal in the voting day and first of all to have the District Court in Capco president then to discuss proposals for the District Court judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32409	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, followed by MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32410	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the argument offered by the SPS in the election to change the adoption of new laws in the area of justice today could, with less or more precision, match what the colleagues in the DOS said today when they challenged this way of establishing the High Council of Justice and the authority it has in relation to the National Assembly, the MPs. Every time someone fears the legitimacy of the MP, his mandate or the legitimacy of the parliament of a state makes a cardinal mistake. We now have the real consequence of the previous delusion that it is possible to respect outside Parliament in a way prescribed by the European Union or someone who is aware that there is this kind of political and any other legitimacy, therefore, has the obligation to respect everything that is required, and when it comes to the session of the Justice Committee, this committee should be the parent for this item of the agenda, then of all MPs evenly, regardless of which parties they come from, we have the challenge of the proceedings, the challenge of candidates, why the proposing representative is not sitting in parliament today, why there is no public in the sense that there is no TV transmission and much of it. I attended the last five sessions of the Justice Committee, although I am not a member and the Committee in the fourth attempt provided the quorum and considered part of the proposal that the High Council of Justice forwarded to this parliament. We have now received a report, among other things, from the Committee - when considering the Committee's supplemental proposal did not support that, and then that none of the people who are proposed are chosen here something is wrong. On the one hand, we have the need to select a large number of judges in the vacancy, I am not talking about those judges who are unnecessarily resolved before the end of the term of office, and on the other hand we are stalling the maximum with the choice of judges and we are making the court not effective, that it does not rule in the interests of the state and the citizens of Serbia. Someone who's responsible has to sit down and figure out what to do with him, because we have a little bit of a mix-up that's really hard to get out of. Here we have heard a rather problematic argument that when someone belongs to a nation or one minority, if not in a particular political party, he is not a good enough representative of a nation or a minority. That thesis isn't just wrong, it's dangerous. You should take care of it. As for an honorable name mentioned here, Oscar Kovac, I don't know how to plead, but I do know that the Hungarians don't mind being a professor at the University of Vienna. Also, what I'm saying is that we can't do what's right when we try to promote and affirm. If we said it wasn't a good national key, then we should offer a valid argument. If we say today that a key should be applied, then we advocate to derivate the basic principle in democracy -- one man, one vote. We need to know what we want, to keep our attitudes consistent and to know what we stand for. In Serbia with more or less, I would say, the controversial problems have never been more painful for members of this or that people of these or those national minorities. I'm not estimating the current moment, that's what someone else is going to say. Here we received one piece of paper - the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the High Council of Justice at a session on 9 July 2003, to elect Vladan Vukcevic, a lawyer, the Belgrade Bar Association to give up the motion for a decision. There are a few problems about this. Parliament would have to hear that and someone should make a statement about it. Is it simply because someone has agreed to represent Jovica Stanisic as a lawyer that he cannot be elected to this high duty or because his father, under his official duty, has agreed to defend Miljenko Khrkach, is this a problem today that this man cannot be elected? Is it possible to challenge a lawyer's right to a client, no matter what kind of a lawyer he's made and what kind of punishment may be threatened by that vision? That should be taken care of, because we don't treat all things equally here, but how we feel when it suits us. At a session of the Justice Committee of almost all its colleagues, a large number of the people proposed here were challenged. I want to say the next thing. It is not good for a committee meeting to say that someone cannot be chosen because it belongs to a particular political party. He can think of it, he can do everything in his political action not to make that choice, as he will do, but it is not correct and has no right, he has no moral right to say that someone just because they belong to a party cannot be elected to a judge or elsewhere. Then there seems to be a mistake and it comes to a situation that seems worse than that time that is the subject of criticism. As for the representation of minority representatives in state authorities and judges and so on in courts, this thing has to be synchronised somewhere, it is responsible for whoever exercises power, the knight's agreement, the fair play agreement, it has to be known and it needs to be known, there should be equality and whoever has responsibility for the exercise of power in certain areas is consulted and has a crucial influence on the choice, because we don't think the judges are falling out of the sky, but someone is proposing them somewhere, giving consent to be elected and finally electing them. If we're being fundamentally honest, that's how it's gonna work out. Therefore, when criticizing it, criticize the authority you do and who you belong to. I have one question, I don't dispute the choice, not to be because of the record, in Užica is chosen by a man who is said to have graduated from college in 1975, and that was born in 1955, it is possible, but it's a little unusual. Let her check, all the other things in the biography are good. It is Milović Manojl, an independent professional associate at the Trade Court in Užica, born 4. 11. In 1955, in Luno's village, the law school graduated in 1975 in Belgrade and then everything is still fine. It's possible he was a great student, I'm not saying it's not impossible, but let him check it out. More colleagues here said that Mrs Sonja Brkic should attend here, and I also think it is impossible for the Assembly to decide and decide, without having an authorised representative of the proposings or an authorised promoter, and we often do not have ministers. There's no Mrs. Brkic today. By the way, for colleagues who offer an argument that someone can't be chosen as a judge of the district court from the place of legal reference or expert advisor, I agree with that, but Mrs. Brkic has had some leaps in these hierarchical steps, more and faster than it would be normal to tolerate, so it would be good to take care of that. On behalf of the SPS, I represent the Moravia County here. This is where 11 judges are proposed, five each in Cačka and Gornji Milanovac, one in Guca, I want to say it's about good candidates. I also want to say that there were other good candidates, to come from good families and deserve the place of judge of the municipal court. Our practice is never to challenge the choice of people who, in our opinion, deserve a choice. Our practice is to challenge the choice of people who don't deserve it, that's what we did in the case of the district attorney. I would like to say that this competition for the municipal court judge in Čačka has been attended by Mitrovica Tanja, among other things. Mitrovica Tanja is a Roma woman, comes from a great and honest family. With her sister Sanja finished, an economical, legal college, the first intellectuals in the small Roma community in Chačka and deserves attention to what I'm saying, that one day someone thinks and chooses to judge, because according to the results in the course of schooling and what he's doing now, she certainly deserves it. In the end on resolutions: The point is to choose because it is impossible for a district court such as Cachak to have 11 completed judges of the Municipal Court. The lustration in society, the lustration in the judiciary, is something that it practically rattles, what it threatens with. That's not good. I have to say that I come from the middle that never had any kind of manipulation with the people of the judiciary, never any judge from the County Court in Chačka was responsible for ending the electoral will, never one of the judges from these courts, it was three courts, there was no other problem, and today in the selection of new judges it is seen that it is done in one atmosphere that is completely normal, that new judges are coming to the place of those who are going to retire and I want to say that, among other things, it is the fruit of past work, there everyone has been doing their job, no one has interfered with the other in things that he is not competent for. Generally, I listened to the Committee today and here in the Assembly, it's not good for a number of people to leave the judiciary. It's about people who have spent 20 years and more, just because they don't fit in with a political show or someone else, someone who today is in a position to decide. Whoever's doing it is doing it wrong. I'm betting that this thing is going in a completely different direction, that those people who, by the results they give, by the criteria that exist here, there's an assessment of efficiency, dignity and others, to stay in that place while that job can be done correctly. It's not good to list who was in which game, who went to which game. If we started to talk about it, there would be hundreds of MPs in this room who could fit into that category. Some have changed a few games, so nothing mind being in one, the other, the third or the fifth today. What you don't take as a problem to yourself, don't put a burden on others as guilt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32411	The right to replicate MP Pal Shandor, the basis for a reply to the presentation of a MP concerning the participation of national minorities in judicial functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32412	I thought if our natural abilities were equal, then the ultimate result, in the situation of democratic elections, must be such that minorities are represented by approximately percentages in functions, as is the population. That's not the case. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that the High Justice Council would have to take care of that. That's why I said that, for example, minority members of that time "key" seem more democratic, and that's the delusion, the paradox, when they were represented in certain places where they should be represented now, but by other mechanisms entirely. Of course, I think that, one voter, that it is a very rough democracy and that in complex societies, like Serbia, it cannot go away, because members of the national minorities will always be in that situation marginalized in another position and I think that some of the Hungarians who are in other parties were not legitimate representatives of the Hungarian people, will show this example - Mr. Curtis has been legitimately elected to the election unit of Grock, as Hungarians. He was a legitimate representative of the Serbs, and he was not a legitimate representative of the Hungarians because there is no Hungarian in Greece, so the Hungarians could not vote. In these elections they knew very well what the percentage was, look at these statistics, voted for one, for the other or for the third party. Simply, Hungarians, it was a feature in the previous SPS elections that had members of the Hungarian people in their ranks, including among MPs, or for the SRS, did not vote or it was not crucial. In that sense, they were not legitimate representatives of the national minority, but were members of the national minority. That's very important. That's what I was talking about. If we are equally capable, it should not happen to us that in a situation where we have a democratic process of electing judges, we are in a situation that Hungary has less than there were during communism. Why? Because then the key provided a certain percentage schedule, and now we're so democratic that the Hungarians automatically turn out to be incompetent to be judges. The problem is that they do not have enough opportunities for social promotion because they were not allowed to appear and be chosen for these functions, and there is material, please, when you look among lawyers, in municipalities where the Hungarians are in the majority, this relationship is proportional to the percentage of the population, which will say that they are discouraged, that they do not appear for these places. I thought that the High Council of Justice must take care of that because Serbia has no chance of being a democratic state if we are to leave the democratic process of elections with a smaller number of minority members in judicial functions than it was during communism. (President: three minutes. How will that explain it anywhere abroad? I said, the other mechanism, the democratic mechanism cannot say that minorities, in this case Hungarians, are not able to be properly represented. That's what I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32413	The word comes from MP Dragisa Djokovic, followed by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32414	The honourable MPs, when this serious issue is discussed, are extremely unserious not to be attended by any of the authorised representatives, or promoters. We don't have a Supreme Court President, Mrs. Sonja Brkic, we don't even have a minister of justice who appeared a little early this afternoon, a tourist in passing, we don't even have a chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, Mr. Hiber. I think it's extremely unserious once again, but when we don't even have a TV feed, when we don't even have the public at work, and we have 166 MPs, at least on the cards, anything is possible. In these appointment and resolution proposals, there is much that is not good, so they needed today's MPs, if they respect them at all, and they should respect them, explain and explain some things. It is true that we noticed that the Uzic candidate graduated from college at the age of 20, but it is true that you have candidates who graduated from college at 28, 30 and 31. If the judge is supposed to be a team, some institution, and I think he should, then we'll all agree that someone who finishes law school at 31st year is not a very good solution, it's not a very good proposal for a candidate for a judge. I won't mention any specific names, because it would be a job for the authorities who aren't here, so for the Justice Department, for the Supreme Court and the High Council of Justice and for the Justice and Administration Committee. On the other hand, we promised the people, we promised the voters and the citizens of this country that there would be a discharge of all judges who had been working dishonestly, who participated in the end of the electoral will of citizens, in stealing votes, etc. We have one proposal where there are 18 judges without reason, and someone before me noticed that a resolution of 18 people is proposed, but there is no one who will explain to us individually why someone is resolved and why someone is not resolved. I'll give you an example that I met Batic and Mr. Hiber, who said I was right and that it would be resolved. Let's say I have a decision here where it's said - on the case for the resolution of the municipal court judge in Kosovo Mitrovica, Blagoja Jaksic, where one of the requests for resolution is said to be because he participated in election thefts. However, the rapporteur, Mr. Bunjevacki and the council president, Mr. Cvijovic, accepts the statement by Blago Jaksic, who says he was only the president of the Kosovo Mitrovica Municipal Election Commission to conduct the elections held in 1996. Nothing further, and what you see here is the 1997 resolution of the Republic Election Commission, signed by Balša Govedarica, where Blagoje Jaksic is appointed, no less, no more than for the president of the Republic Election Commission 27. Gentlemen from the Serbian Radical Party, there is no colleague of mine Ljubomir Kragovic, they know very well and they then filed criminal charges for theft, abuse and the rest. Then, if you remember, Milan Milutinovic received more votes than Shiptar in Kosovo than Fatos Nano in Albania. When I gave this to Mr. Hiber, he said it was only this reason, which he lied to a great personal greater, enough to resolve. I expect this mistake will be corrected, that this and similar ones, and not only unfortunately, not only in Kosovo, and there were the most electoral thefts and abuses, will be resolved. Batic also knows the case. It's fragrant, it can't be done like that, and we'll fix it immediately, etc. Mr. Bunjevac and Cviovic needed proof of this. They don't know that there's a Republic Election Commission in this building, that it has documentation and that they can't ask the Republic Election Commission to see who it was and who it was to conduct the election. I don't think it's good evidence, it's not a good story for us who got 176 mandates on a single list on December 23rd, wherever we are now, that this story is not good for us, and it doesn't work for anyone, because people like that are going to re-orient, like the story of the Sabbath. They go from one to the next, the third. They don't work for the party, they work for themselves, for their own interests, for money, etc. This will not serve anyone to honor, nor will such examples raise our ratings. I expect what Minister Batic and Mr Hiber will do next. Here's the evidence, here's everything, not to mention those four, five pages about the other abuses of the gentleman in question, but a lie, when a man lies to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court respects that lie, pretends that there was a lie, cheats on him, probably enough reason to finally break up with that practice and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32415	The word has been issued by MP Dragan Pavlovic, then MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32416	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is always a question of what the criteria are for selecting judges. Whether it is a political likeness, environment, and obedience, or whether it is the result of work, or the number of judgments that have been resolved, judgments or the number of judgments returned. Whether elected judges will judge by the Constitution and law or judge as Slobodan Vučetic, president of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, who violates the Constitution and the laws of Serbia. I do not believe that any of these candidates for judges belong to one of the political parties that are in power in Serbia or is very close to them. As a result, we have major errors in the proposal, i.e. we do not have a quality choice of judges on this list that has been submitted to us. The Municipality Court of Zajecar was proposed by Selena Jankovic, a judicial associate of the Municipality's Court in Zajecar, whose colleagues say he is not a quality judge, that he has only two or three years of working experience in the court and that the criteria for its proposal are not the results of work, but a private relationship with someone from the court. We have another proposal regarding the judge of the Court of Justice at Piroth. It is about Mr. Dejan Zivkovic, the municipal lawyer and the president of the Municipal Election Commission. This would be his first job in court, which is not a distraction in principle, but since the reasons for the High Council of Justice states that all candidates are asked for information on the expertise of the authorities and organisations in which the candidate worked in the legal profession, I wonder what assessments of the expertise and dignity Mr. Dejan Zivkovic has and whether his former municipal leadership is, since the greatest stories of the introduction of the interim administration in Piroth, gave these characteristics or the temporary administration would be introduced to obtain the opinion that this gentleman is worthy, or moral-politically-like to perform judicial functions. Since the representative of the Vsky Council of Justice, Mrs Sonja Brkic, who will remain known for saying that the laws are not applied retroactively, and that she, as the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, will, when necessary, find a way for this retroactiveity, then I am absolutely sure that I am right that Mr. Dejan Zivkovic should not be elected Judge of the Pirot Municipal Court. The latest mistake that the gentleman mentioned was the election that was made 10 days ago because he retired. If Mr. Dejan Zivkovic retreats, it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32417	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32418	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this brief and concise presentation of mine, I must say that I hope that all MPs from the Pyrot County will contribute to our work today in the Republic of Parliament, given that, finally after three years today, we have on the agenda an attempt to fill the seats in many courts and, among other things, at the District and Municipal Court in Piroth. However, before I continue my presentation, I must say that unfortunately, the practice, which was introduced in 2001 by the vote of a set of judicial laws, which referred to the establishment of a new model of proposing and selecting the holders of judicial functions, is overly related to the establishment of the High Council of Justice as one expert body, which will conceptually replace the role that the Committee for Justice of the Republic of Parliament played until then in coordination with the Ministry of Justice, more specifically the Ministry of Justice. So this concept, which was created by the adoption of that set of judicial laws, and I will remind you October or November 2001, meant and we were hoping that there would be an attempt to establish a more correct way for proposing legal holders, as well as holders of administrative functions in the judiciary. However, subsequent adjustments after eight months, as I recall, in July 2002, after a few months again. I'm sorry to disturb some of you who are resting, but let's try to focus on the essence. So, the bottom line is that this concept that we tried to create an ambience of a more correct choice of judicial officials in practice is greatly devalued by changes and additions to a set of laws on justice, and there was also a constitutional court reaction, which, fortunately, responded adequately, perhaps a little late, but not to spread the story too much, the concept of proposing the holders of judicial functions by the professional body, and what the High Council of Justice, unfortunately, did not prove to be good by this practice. For what? Mostly because, in accordance with the principle of the public of work, some will say transparency, and I would be more inclined to Serbian expression or expression from Serbian, which is the public. We had to sit in today's session as representatives of the highest legislative body, and we have here a more valid argument than it was presented by this High Council of Justice act, where only the number of candidates who responded to the ad published in the means of public information and who delivered their biographies to the High Council of Justice. However, there is no more detailed information that we, as representatives of the people or MPs, could serve in terms of meeting more correctly and more concretely with the proposed, more specifically, candidates. There is no way that we, as MPs, get to know more about the data and what's most important about the work of a lawyer and a judge and holder of a judicial office, if he's been on the job so far, so now he's got to move forward. So, the High Council of Justice only advertises in the "Official Messenger" and the daily list "Politika" ad for selecting judges and for free seats in courts of general jurisdiction in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. For all candidates registered who meet the legal requirements, etc., and the candidates have applied, a large majority of them and that's good. However, we are now in a position, us as MPs, because fortunately you still haven't remembered to exempt from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly the choice of holders of judicial functions, but who knows, you have a little more time, as you approach the end of the government, you may also come up with that idea, of course you from DOS. Fortunately, we have the responsibility to consider the proposed candidates for the holders of judicial functions. When a national MP encounters such a bunch of proposals, where, for example, the Pirot Municipal Court is told, and I accidentally opened the application, Lukic Branislav, Judge of the Municipal Court in Dimitrovgrad, born in 1959, finished law school in 1982 and passed the judicial exam in 1991. He was an inspector at RUJP Dimitrovgrad, so the secretary of the Social Affairs Fund and the municipal public defender, a public defender in Dimitrovgrad, a judge at the Municipal Court in Piroth and has 19 years of employment. Whether from this biography, which I may know of a man from sight, and perhaps have no objections to his work, I cannot conclude whether in his work he satisfied the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, whether his urgency was greater than 15%, whether he, as a judge of the municipal court, showed good results, how much judgment was returned to him, how annulled. There's no such thing as that. This only proves that the principle of the public in such a procedure that is now in force has not improved at all. On the contrary, perhaps the principle of the public has been restored in this way, because we, as MPs, cannot in any way get to know more in detail what is most important to one proposed candidate, and that is his expertise. Furthermore, I can't look back on the fact that today in Serbia hundreds of judges have been unscheduled and how far I could look at any of the proposed candidates by the High Council of Justice is not from the ranks of judges who were currently unscheduled, who until a few years ago were tried in courts located in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, which may have been deployed by some on the basis of a labour contract in some of the municipal courts. There have been candidates reported, as can be seen from the list of candidates reported. So we can conclude that none of these judges, unscheduled judges who have tried in courts with the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, and as it has begun, can be the republic, as you have begun from the authorities, since you accept dialogue on equal grounds between Belgrade and Kosovo, but we will not turn away from the subject of 3,000 dinars is 3,000 dinars. So none of these candidates, and Pirocanac is a Pyrocan, none of these judges who are not deployed are covered by this proposal. I have to go back to, say, at the time of our government, the SPS, it may have been a mistake to take away the possibility of refugees or displaced persons from the territory of former SFRY republics to citizenship. That mistake, and you may have corrected it now, but you're making another mistake, which is that judges, you think you're going to make judges come back to Kosovo and Metohija without creating conditions for them. They will not, and by all accounts, remain unscheduled, and these people who have a working experience and who are and how they need this society, because the judges do not grow on trees, could be covered by this proposal and be deployed, even if those who report to the High Council of Justice, to the vacant places in municipal and county courts. That's one problem! The other problem that we have to point out on behalf of the SPS is that today, perhaps more than ever, not possibly, but certainly, they find themselves under pressure that someone God knows for what reasons, will remember that they too need to be resolved. Maybe someone will find them some bad references. (From O.R.: Theme. ) The subject is the choice of judges, and candidates who are registered for competition have been reported, more specifically the High Council of Justice ad. The holders of judicial functions today are in a very inexplicable situation, they do not know on which side wind can blow, they are afraid to judge, and that is the condition of this trend that arises, which is that many judges with experience from who knows how many years, people who are of profession, people who have and how well they have done their job, leave the judicial authorities on a personal request and go to law enforcement. That's a very serious problem. This will lead to the unquality structure of the judicial staff, the introduction of unquality people into the judiciary. It will lead to the situation that these people or people you may be putting in the judiciary, have to listen to the pressure, and may be lustrated because of the pressure, and who knows why, maybe someone will find a problem with their work, and that on the basis of a proposal from the High Council and the Great Council or the President of the Municipal or District Court, they will be put on a motion to resolve them from the judicial post, unless they are the service authorities who have chosen them in the judicial capacity. In addition to this, I must say that the SPS has received an act by which the Judge of the Municipal Court in Ruma, Vinčić Zoran, addresses all members of the Justice and Administration Committee and all groups in the Republic Parliament, and draws attention to the fact that the Supreme Court and the Great personal council have made a decision determining that there are reasons for the resolution of Zoran Vincic, Judge of the Municipality Court of Ruma. Without wanting to enter the meritung in this way and to discuss from this place whether or not Mr. Judge of the Municipal Court in Ruma, Vincic Zoran, was resolved, whether or not there were reasons for its resolution. When you come to the situation that a judge of the Municipal Court is addressing MPs, MP clubs, you have to ask yourself whether something is wrong with that system, whether something was wrong with the work of the Supreme Court of Serbia, whether it was the Great personal council, and if we go back a little bit, we will remember that former Serbian Supreme Court President Ledosava Karamarkovic resigned as Supreme Court President, because he does not want to be more exposed to pressures. You will remember that a large number of judicial officials have exposed to the public the ways in which they are being pressured as holders of judicial functions, all of which gives us the right to put a finger on the head and ask ourselves whether this is also another example that you do not want to raise the judiciary to a higher level of independence, that the degree of expertise and the bearer of judicial functions will be the one who will be decisive, not party resemblance, and not obedience or service to the parliamentary majority. Let's go back a little bit in the way you pressured the judges. So, in the proposals to amend a set of judicial laws, I think it's about the Law on Judges, there were a number of principles on the basis of which the lustration in the judiciary would be implemented. Among these principles were the principle of participation or the reason for participation in the end of the electoral will of citizens. To specify the story, for the area of the Pirot Municipal Court: three candidates were proposed, 12 applied; of these 12 three were elected. Among these three are, I do not dispute the curtsy of that gentleman, I do not know what the situation is, I am talking about a proposal from the High Council of Justice and how he put pressure on the people who worked in the judiciary. So, one of the suggestions is Mr. Zivkovic Dejan, municipal public defender at the Pirot Municipality. That's what you're gonna have to do. So, ladies and gentlemen joke aside, not getting into whether Mr. Zivkovic Dejan is professional or not, I believe he has the affinity to be a good judge. I need to point out one fact. The former head of the Pirot Municipal Court, Mr Batica Aleksic, resigned both as the head of the municipal court and as a judicial function, due to the unprecedented pressures under the DOS authorities after October 5th. So, the biggest charge to be put on him was that he was president of the Municipal Election Commission in 1996, which then annulled the elections in several places because of irregularity, and I must say that he may have grounds. Normally, it must be decided by a valid body, not this parliament. If there were such malfeasances, it must be legalised, more specifically to be legal, not to go to the system of a statement, and perhaps it would be the basis to do so if its resolution had been carried out. However, many do not know, and Mr Tomislav G. Panajotovic certainly knows well, one of the members of the same Municipal Election Commission was Mr Dejan Zivkovic. You're proposing to him now as judge of the municipal court. We don't know if you're informed, we don't know if you're gonna have to deal with yourself, we're just talking about suggestions in official form. What you have in the off-the-book, you can officialize from this pay phone, but officially it's only what MPs get. The MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have not received any act. I read what I got, and I only stick to what was officially put into the procedure. So, either this is a special recognition that no machinations or malfeasance, nor the termination of the electoral will in the work of the Municipal Election Commission in the Pirot Assembly were made in 1996, or this is an attempt to bring people who may have been obedient to you to the positions of the holders of judicial functions, regardless of what you may consider to have participated in the procedures of ending the electoral will. This is just one example that shows that no action has been well implemented, that the law and principle of independent professional proposal, the holders of judicial functions have not been well implemented, and I will remind you that in the past, the Committee for Justice in the Republic of Parliament has had this function. Also, I must say that, in the earlier period, when the proposal, the position of proposing the holder of judicial functions was in the jurisdiction of the Justice Committee, there was close co-operation with the Ministry of Justice, or the Ministry of Justice, the obligation to obtain opinions from the College and the opinion of the President of the Courts to lead the debate on committees as well as how much it led to the session of the Republic of Parliament itself. We are now denied the possibility of establishing the criteria under which the High Council of Justice came to these names, in which they realized that these people should be holders of judicial functions, and not some others, and therefore we have no valid arguments. At the very end, I must point out that the report that we received from the Committee on Justice and Administration, held on 2 July 2003, said that the Committee had considered the motion for a decision on the selection of judges for a number of judges and did not support the proposal of the High Council of Justice, that for some judges of the district court, the Municipal Court in Negotin, Boljevac, etc. do not support the High Council of Justice's proposals. So I'm going to remind you in 2001 that here in this House we have established the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice, we as the Republic Parliament. In 2002, you adopted the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which states in Article 49 of the Justice and Administration Committee and says, "The Committee for Justice and Administration is considering the draft law, second regulation or general act and other questions in the area," and I ask that my quote be not included in the time. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) I quote in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The quote doesn't count in time. (President: Only when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure. ) Article 49(2) states that "the Committee proposes the selection of judges, republican public prosecutor and other officials", etc. Please, sir, this is the legal papacy that you've brought to justice and it doesn't lead to anything, and I'm glad that you agree with my findings, and you have to, if I've made a bad finding that you're denying me, and if I deserve a warning, feel free to say it, but I can't have two different provisions and two concepts to be represented, one in the Law on Judges, one in the High Council of Justice and one in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS parliamentary group will not support these proposals because of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32419	People's MP Petar Cvetakovic, the DSS parliamentary group, and then the MP Zlatan Jovanovic, the SRS parliamentary group, reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32420	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the resolutions and appointments of judges of municipal courts, district courts, trade courts and the Supreme Court, where at the beginning of this agenda, or at the beginning of the debate, and even during the debate, we have not seen, nor have we seen any moment attended by the President of the Supreme Court either the Minister of Justice or any of the representatives of the Government. In addition to the proposed resolution proposals, i.e. the appointments which are names and for no significant reasons which determine that a person may be resolved or elected as a judge, we cannot measurely, i.e. adequately assess as MPs, i.e. this home, whether we should vote in favour of a proposal or we are against such a proposal, except in cases where MPs who personally know a particular situation object. Therefore, despite the fact that I do not have the right to do so under the Rules of Procedure, I would ask Mrs Micic to set a break and ask the President of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice to give us a closer explanation of the proposals that came in several letters, so that we may still be more adequate. more professionally, let's make a statement about these proposals. Otherwise, only a proposal remains for no significant reason, and the decision-making can be entirely by some intruding. Did Mrs. Micic hear me?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32421	I've heard of it, but you have no right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32422	I asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32423	You do not have the right to this item of the agenda, and the other I believe in the MPs that they can be professional enough to expose to the material they have already received, and thirdly, Justice Minister Mr Batic was here in the O.R. today and he had some other, unfortunately, obligations. I'm sorry they're not here. Mrs. Sonja Brkic has been informed, and I'm also sorry she's not here. You have the right to participate in the discussion or to give up that right as some other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32424	Thank you, I asked, and I'm not giving up this right. I'm continuing the discussion. However, I felt that there was no respect for this House for the treatment of people who were obliged to give Parliament MPs an explanation of the proposal. what's on the agenda. We'll get on with it. Unfortunately, there is no Mr Obradovic here either, and I would like to answer him in particular - it is not his great success if he gets a round of applause and support from the Democratic Party MPs present here, because it is not a success, and his representation is completely wrong. The MPs of the Democratic Party are aware that they are already in the mud, so they would be glad to withdraw the DSS, but they will not be able to, or the conclusion of Mr Obradovic, that the DSS is the legislator of the law. the setazacone of the domain of the judiciary is correct but is maliciously presented. An independent judiciary cannot be created only by passing one or more laws. For an independent judiciary, please warn the gentleman, then he'll be able to answer, and here I'll call him last name is... You still know who I mean, he's entitled to a replica, he'll answer me. The independent judiciary is created much more serious and much harder than the adoption of one or more of its own. The job of an independent judiciary was created, i.e. the preconditions for the draft law given by the DSS. We are witnessing the need to take a number of actions afterwards and create social conditions where the judiciary, i.e. the judiciary, judges and prosecutors will be able to act independently. So that's the first prerequisite and the first step that the DSS took and then, according to the government or the Ministry's proposal, you've witnessed it, and I point out very often, i.e. There has been a change in the number of times i.e. individual changes to these laws from the domains of the judiciary, so some solutions are required as new, and then it was returned to previous solutions, so at this point it's a complete mess with these changes and additions, that it's literally very difficult to manage what's in force. There has therefore also been this situation that we are now considering resolutions or appointments, i.e. the appointment of judges and that we do not have the basic elements that support this proposal or that dispute this proposal, except as I have said individual disputed MPs or disputed the Committee on Justice. So in this, Mr. Obradovic purposely presented this particular initiative and this good will of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and another finding by Mr. Mihajlov is quite accurate. I repeat, this current government is working on the same principles as the previous government did. So, the primary goal of the executive government, or the current government, as well as these previous ones, is to put the judiciary, the judiciary, under its control, I would not say rudely - under its authority, but to put under your control and literally make the judiciary an executive body of that policy, the policy of that institution. This is the tendency that the previous government has established since 1990, and beyond, but all these materials and this current government has perfected the obituary until that stage, to the extent that today it is practically impossible to be elected as a judge unless it is a member of some of the parties of the rest of the DOS. This can be presented in any way, it can be represented by alleged democracy, but it is not so, and we are witnessing that the retailers will come time, if this authority is still a little longer, there will come a time when they will literally require confirmations from candidates that they are not even sympathisers and do not give God to members of opposition parties, especially the DSS. So the candidates can't even consider it. Their applications and applications will not be considered as far as they are not very close to individuals or political parties currently in power. So this bad thing continues, I repeat -- this bad practice, which instead of leading to an independent judiciary, leads right to the subjective judiciary, is freely said because people who are willing to listen and judge by someone else's dictatorship are wanted. So we come to such a situation to object that someone was a member of JUL, so now the proposal of DS or some other party, or DHSS, is okay, you've made a right, a motion for a choice for a judge. So that's exactly the trend that isn't finding this current government but that's this current power up to the point, and it's very well authorized, and that's going to be what's going to mark the way and kind of functioning of the current government and resolution ministries. So, one very democratic, one intention that went completely towards having a completely independent judiciary. That intention, these laws of the domain of the judiciary were questioned by precisely the behavior of the current authorities, in fact they were just brought to an absurde. So they created a contrast and a contrast from the one required. I can't say we haven't had a moment, at least in the past decade, of a bad judge. The vast majority of judges in the Serbian judiciary are good, i.e. good and good people, honest and good experts. What's been a problem over the past few years is that these are good people who want to work by law and conscience aside. It is happening now, and it is those who are good that continue to take refuge, minimize their participation, turn aside, and those who want to listen, who are obedient, who come to the top of the pyramid and the judicial authorities. It's an exception, it's not a rule in all cases, and I wouldn't like to generalize it, so let's just say that I said that it's like that everywhere in the judiciary. We have very good, as we have a vast majority of good judges, so there are the president of the courts who are from the domain of the judiciary, that is, from that point of view of expertise and behavior and work completely good, or so I would say, "okay." Such judges, who are good and who are precisely because of the ongoing aspirations of the executive authority to put them under their control, and we are witnessing that this is a situation with this parliament, which is literally under the control of the executive authority. So, the executive power is in constant desire to judge, or to put employees in the judiciary, not only judges, under your own authority, under your control, and therefore these choices, which are without adequate arguments, are either "yes" or "no", which literally just need to satisfy some form. Nothing in essence can be decided at this time, there are a huge number of judges, in order for the confusion of any major, huge number of judges by a large number of letters, that is to say, and we, except in those cases that are challenged by one raise of hands, or by one pressure of the taster to make a choice, that is, the resolution of these judges, and those authorities who want to have full control over the judiciary, will just allow them to continue to have it. It is true that any change in the power of those judges who are now candidates of the current government will turn into another party or become the supporters of the winning party. It's bad, it's just a bad, unique opportunity for the rest of the DOS, a unique opportunity to move forward with the creation of an independent judiciary has failed. It was a unique opportunity and these are years, you won't mind, I'll take advantage of someone else's saying, "These are the years the locusts ate," at least in the domain of creating an independent judiciary. I'm not saying that by the time I was in that judiciary by 2000, though, as a lawyer, but since 2000, since the year 2003, my assessment has not been significant, except for the impression that judges, or judicial workers, have some greater fear. Not more fear than the system, you don't get it wrong, but more fear of what the executive government is going to say, whether they're going to keep their position, whether there's going to be a solution, for which reasons, and whether they're going to be able to make progress, and if this is evidence of that, too, to look at the current proposals, we have people who have studied for ten years and over, I've seen one example of 17 years, we have people who were born 40 and some, or 50 years ago, who are now elected judges, and we have people who have been working for four years, and they're elected for the county court. There may always be doubts whether these professional criteria are what is fundamental in defining someone's choice of judge or political criteria when we do not have an explanation, or literally do not have criteria and explain why out of certain 10, 20, or 30 candidates has been elected by that one or two district court judges; why, as they said, the secretary of a municipality is now becoming a judge, and in courts we have a large number of professional associates, first trainees, and then expert associates who are preparing for this judicial work. I'm not going to diminish the importance of a judge when I say that the work of a judge is the same as the work of a lawyer, mostly a craftsman's job, that it doesn't take a great theory to do that kind of work. That it is essential for a good judge, a basic experience in the business he deals with, normal, experience and independence from the executive authority, from any leverage of power. Normally, I won't mention the condition of not being associated with illegal actions, that's what's meant. So when we have such proposals and such examples that, with a very small job internship, someone is chosen as a judge and that someone is elected to a judge who is left to a judge who has more than the legal maximum retirement rate, how can we determine whether there is any good will of all the competent ones who have made such proposals, whether they have the good will to say that we definitely have an independent judiciary at one point in the process. No, it's not their intention, and it's not their intention and their behavior, remember from the end of last year, so the culmination of the state of emergency where all political officials, even the minister of justice himself, who, in his position, should protect and help these judges, these workers in the judiciary, have been orchestrated by attacks on the judiciary and on judges. One example was taken in general, one example was found, and then they generalised that judges were not good, that the whole of the judiciary was not good, and in doing so, they were completely against the law reading how the defendants' statements were made in the investigation, and then bid these statements and condemning someone before the investigation was completed. Another, "burning" example -- the Ministry of Information or the Ministry of Interior, we have witnessed it, were dealing with the conviction before the arrest. They found the perpetrator, even used the terms of being the perpetrator, and you will allow, no one can be the doer until it is, or the perpetrator, until it is determined by a judicial verdict. So, at press conferences, they found their way into the same conference and found guilty and convicted. After that, the judicial authorities requested that, as soon as possible, all these inaccuracies and insinuations try to conclude the law, find material facts and these people's convictions, which is normal, out of their minds, and which is impossible, except for a short-term purpose and except for collecting cheap and short-term political points. All this was burdensome, especially the behaviour of the current government and the ministry: The Ministry of Information, which has been issued in extraordinary terms by the penalties and the Minister of Information, has all been burdened by the fact that it has continued to prevent, at least a hint, the creation of an independent judiciary that must be the goal of all, because there is no rule of law, there is no democracy without an independent and independent judiciary. And the independent judiciary is increasingly needed by the authorities, rather than by the opposition, and that would end it, the gentlemen who throws me out of the Democratic Party, the independent judiciary is precisely needed for them, because after the next elections, they will be the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32425	The People's MP Bojan Pajtic, right to the replica, answered the words, yes, an insult to the Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32426	Here, colleagues of Cvetkovic, often the Democratic Party was in the mouth and MP club DOS, to look back at that mud, a respected colleague, when we talk about it, we first have to take care of how we talk about people who are not present. In this case, they are members of the High Council of Justice. When we're accusing these people, e.g. Mrs. Brkic and Mr. Ostojic, I think it is unusually important to know the right to the replica, to know that Mrs. Brkic, as a proposal for the President of the District Court in Novi Sad and Mr. Ostojic, is strongly supported by the Democratic Party of Serbia, as a proposal for the Interior Ministry in Novi Sad. So, let go of those stories, neither fish nor girls, let go of those stories -- short memories and short wits, that's already offensive. That's something... Whoever is wrestling in the mud and who is in the mud is the least on you to judge it. What we see before us, as a proposal, is a proposal that contains two good principles. In the definition of proposals in county courts, we see that 90% of the proposal is actually people who worked in courts, most often judges of municipal courts and some lawyers. It's an approach we can support. With a proposal for judges of municipal courts also between 70% and 80%, how quickly we calculated, the people who were proposed are either from courts or they were professional associates or they were lawyers or they were people who were otherwise linked to the judiciary and that is also a constructive approach and we can welcome this approach. I agree that even when we talk about who the regime belongs to and whether it is party personneled or not, 90% and over 90% of the people who are proposed here for judges of district courts or judges of municipal courts were either judges or professional associates before 2000, therefore, are the people the Assembly chose in the previous meeting. Please, please, and colleagues from the SPS to have that in mind, that when we talk about these people, we really make sure that it comes to them, that these people have families, that these people have dignity and I don't believe that they want to get them in a position to be suspected of party membership today, or that's important, who's being proposed, in what capacity they call them. I think that these kinds of discussions, whether or not party personnel, are being denied precisely by the proposals of people who were in the judiciary and long before 2000. What I would refer to, especially as suggestions, is a proposal for Mr. Kadrija Habib, who was proposed to the District Court judge in Novi Sad. I agree with some of the previous speakers that it was necessary in this material to indicate, especially in the case of people who were in the judiciary, the degree of confirmed judgments, or the percentage of confirmed judgments. Mr. Kadrija, or Mr. Habilj, I don't know what his last name was, had an extremely high percentage of confirmed verdicts last year, but last year it was about 52-53%, and that's something that doesn't qualify him for his progress from the court judge's degree, or the district court judges, and I'm asking the Assembly to make a special statement, so I'm issuing Mr. Kadri Habib.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32427	I'm sorry, you'll probably be using as president of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32428	Let me keep going, but I'll be done soon, I won't take up much of your time. Mr. Dejan Zivkovic, who was mentioned at this address, had directed this assembly on 9.6.2003, to the Assembly Committee on Justice and Management to inform him that he had dropped out of the application for a competition for the election of the Court of Justice in Piroth for personal reasons, so that I would ask the Assembly to make a special statement about this and to respect this proposal for the candidate, not to be elected, and he is in the proposal of the High Council of Justice. We also received a proposal for Mr. Slavko Trajkovic to be proposed for the Trade Court in Leskovec. Here I also propose that the Assembly be particularly clear, some of the knowledge that we possess does not speak in favour of Mr Trajkovic performing fully in a certain way, in the most qualitative way this function, but we leave time until the day for voting to the MPs from Leskovec to check whether there is this kind of legal similarity, i.e. the professional likeness of Mr Trajkovic to do the job. I ask that the Assembly make a special statement about one motion for resolution. It's about Mr. Zoran Vincic, Judge of the Municipality Court in Ruma. Namely, the information that we have received, which was also received by all the parliamentary clubs, as well as by the Committee on Justice, and some further information suggests that there is a reasonable doubt that all the formal conditions have not been respected in the procedure for the resolution of Mr Vincic, and I ask that the Assembly and the proposal be made particularly clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-09-0.u32429	Thank you. This would be the end of today's work. We'll continue the debate tomorrow. There are four other registered MPs for this agenda item and I'm setting tomorrow as voter's Day. So, we'll approach the vote after the debate on this agenda has been completed. Good-bye, thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 115 MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Marko Jaksic, Stanko Kovacevic, Aleksandra Joksimović, Petar Misic, Gorica Mojović, Predrag Stojanović, Dragan Rafaelovic, Jon Cisamaš, Radoslav Veseninović and Miroslav Markicevic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - CHOICE, FINISH FUNCTIONS, RELATING TO THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS, according to the application for the word, has the People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic, the SRS parliamentary group. The next to be reported is MP Lazar Marjanski.
