ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26678	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. According to official records, 120 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have the quorum needed to work and I am informing the National Assembly of the absence of MPs. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Radmilo Misovic, Zaharija Trnavcevic, Velimir Simonović, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Vojislav Dosen, Ratimir Svirčević and Miomir Tadic; (at noon) Stanko Kovacevic, and (late) Milos Lučić and Bojan Pajtic. A notice about the resignation of the MP. You have received Dr Vojislav Seselj's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and Article 2(3). The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the term of office of MP Dr Vojislav Seselj. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before he was elected, to the National MP Dr Vojislav Seselj, elected from the Serbian Radical Party's election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Privatization (the follow-up to the principle) I remind the National Assembly that at yesterday's session, following the opening presentation submitted by the representative of the bill, Aleksandar Vlahovic, Minister of Industry and Privatisation, the MPs Djordje Mamula, Slobodan Tomović, Slobodan Adžic and Miodrag Stamenkovic explained the opinion they had given at the meetings of the committees responsible. Do any of the other MPs, who have issued an opinion at committee meetings, want a word? The word was issued by MP Branimir Trajkovic, who also issued an opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26679	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to explain briefly why I have singled out my opinion on the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. In July 2001, when the Privatisation Law was considered, a fundamental reason for the proposed solutions was the desire to avoid free share of shares and to bring foreign investors with the necessary fresh capital for a strategic partner. It's also with this law, which is very important, that the laws on denationalisation and extraprofit should go. We know the fate of these laws ourselves. The extraprofit law is no longer mentioned. The Serbian government also announced the arrival of at least 10 out of the 100 largest multinational companies by the end of 2002. In this way, modern technology, modern environmental solutions and new jobs would allow Serbia to present itself through these large companies to new products on the European Union market. Today we are witnessing that there is nothing of it; there are neither these large multinational companies nor exports to the European Union market, but that is why we have the sale of social enterprises to domestic investors. Such companies are paid out of current business. Where's the fresh capital? I'm afraid after two to three years, most of the company's sales will become the property of the banks that gave these loans. So the question arises whether this model of privatisation, and against the will of the creators of this law, slips into free privatisation? Remember only those sugars that were sold for three euros. Why doesn't this process run the way the minister explained it in the summer of 2001? It is assumed that there is no legal certainty and guarantee for foreign capital. There is no friendly environment for the arrival of foreign investors. This left behind the expansion of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Serbian government has also contributed to this, because the money received from privatisation has drained the budget, instead of helping "soft loans" to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. So she missed the chance to use the small and medium-sized business sector as a job-employer. It is certain that citizens will question the reason for these results in the privatisation process so far. The answer is a clear and clear - the political instability of Serbia, the lack of respect for the law, the theft of parliamentary mandates, the rule of law and the non-implementation of institutional reforms -- a negative picture of Serbia in the world. The law on denationalisation, which the DSS submitted to the Serbian Assembly last fall, was not put on the agenda. I wonder why? It is also an answer to the question of my Kruševljani who ask me daily what about the law on denationalisation. For all of the above issues and doubts, there is no solution to even greater centralised in the subject of privatisation, which is offered by these amendments and additions to the Law. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) The DSS will not vote for the changes offered and the additions of the Privatisation Act; we ask that the line be underlined, the results and the assessment of the correctness and purpose of this privatisation model be assessed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26680	The word has been given by MP Slavoljub Matic, who gave an opinion at the board's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26681	My colleagues and colleagues, I have issued an opinion on the Committee on Finance, and I need to update my representatives from the DSS on the reasons for this and the vote against the bill. Without a valid law on denationalisation, there is no real privatisation. Anyone involved in this process in any way, I personally see it through the involvement of local self-government, well knows that there is no serious buyer unless there is legal stability. It also rests on a proper law on denationalisation, because every serious customer wants to know whose he buys. No one will seriously buy someone else's heritage, which is 1945, 1946, 1947, 1948, 1952, from previous owners, meaning there is no valid privatisation without denationalization. It's something we insist on in this home, so we can pass a law on denationalization as soon as possible. Also, when it comes to the Privatisation Act, it is the right time, after the functioning of the law that is still in force, to ask basic questions, which is how privatisation is conducted, the pace (no one in this Serbia is satisfied with the speed), then the price at which businesses are sold, the origin of customers' money, the concentration of customers. the question of whether there is even a market for customers, in which the right way we can quantify the price of these companies without demand. Of course we don't get rights, we already have a lower price, the maltene is flat zero, so it doesn't allow certain things from the republican budget, i.e. Social programmes improve to have the appropriate effect of privatisation itself. Also, the role of local self-government. I told the Minister about a month and a half ago that as long as we waited for the Privatisation Agency to carry out the whole privatisation process, there were no customers, no real sales, no real information. When we brought it down to the level of local self-government, the number of customers increased, with the fact that we are not satisfied with that number. We also have to ask why the Privatisation Agency isn't present in every district, why isn't it providing adequate information? Minister, why isn't there an agency for small and medium-sized enterprises? I can't hear, I can't see that agency in Braničevsky County, and there isn't, and we're not talking about the obsolescence of the concept of chambers of commerce, almost there aren't any in Serbia. They may exist at the level of the Republic, however, in real life they are not, and certainly they are one of the factors in that information, at least when it comes to privatisation. As regards concrete changes to the law, the first member in your proposal gives even greater authority to the state, i.e. The Privatisation Agency. It not only follows the privatisation process, but is able, according to this bill change, to sell capital, i.e. property. Also, in Article 2 of your proposal, it is clear that there should be a change in the ownership of social and state capital. The provision of Article 3 of this Article states that a buyer of capital or property cannot be a domestic legal entity operating in the majority social capital. But there is a question of relevance, that is, what if conditions can be created in such a way that an economic operator operating on social capital can further provide a strategic partner with such purchase. Furthermore, Article 3 of your proposal to amend the law shows that the applicant is. you ministers significantly extended the deadline for the extension of privatisation without offering an explanation. It is clear why this process is being extended. The question arises what will happen to companies waiting for privatisation, will it fall into bankruptcy within this year and a half, and will it be worthless? It seems to me that many businesses have lost their price on the market for the last two years. I think this extension, which you insist on, will just do what no one in this room is going to do. So much for the reasons of my separate and negative opinion on the changes to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26682	Does MP Petar Cvetkovic want a word? Here you go. (Zoran Ćirkovic: Replica. ) These are all MPs who have issued opinions at board meetings and who are entitled to five minutes each. You'll get a chance as head of the parliamentary group. You'll have 20 minutes, then you'll talk. There's no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26683	Ladies and gentlemen, I have issued an opinion on the Legislative Committee, as well as other DSS MPs, for a number of reasons, despite the fact that the Legislative Committee is not the parent board for this law. Whether it is a Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad or another committee in the Assembly, it is less important. It is important that this Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, and they say it is parent and has been responsible for considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, did not accept this bill. It seems that this fact was not enough for the government and Mr. Minister to withdraw this bill from the procedure. I would like to propose to the Proposer, i.e. Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia, that this poor bill on amendments to the Privatisation Act be withdrawn from the assembly procedure and preparation, following comprehensive analyses of the current effects of privatisation, better and better quality of the bill. This will achieve two very important things: we will get a good and quality proposal to amend the Law on Privatisation, and it is not a small item, and we will save significant resources to discuss this law, as I do not think it will pass in this assembly. It will not pass for any more reason, and it is essential that this proposal is unquality and that it must be much better. For me, there are at least two reasons why I set out my opinion on the Legislative Committee. The first relates precisely to the competence of the Legislative Committee, i.e. compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. This bill does not comply with the Constitution, does not comply with the Constitutional Charter, does not comply with the Convention on Human Rights. Something more detailed about last night was a colleague of George Mamula's. I will return to this topic later; the second reason why it is not necessary to accept the amendment and the addition of the Privatisation Act is crucial: there is nowhere in the world, nor in this country, such a good law on privatisation that can replace the government's poor policy, the poor work of the government, the poor work of the ministry. We can also say that this is the best bill, and that's not the case. It's about practice. It's about government behavior. It's about government work. The best law cannot produce the fact that it wants, if the perpetrators, and in this case the Ministry and the Government, do not work on the principles of good, quality, responsible work. The question arises, who has the right to sell kidnapped, foreign property. It is a general principle of civilization and civilization society, of modern-day normal states, that private property is in some sense sacred. Whoever is authorized to take private property, taken away in some past periods with less or more brutality, is now selling. The government and ministry are calling for a solution to the previous law of July last year, where 5% is set aside for compensation to earlier owners. Having some information, I'm familiar with the Data League for the Protection of Private Property, and I have no reason not to trust these people, these are the heirs of the people who were brutally kidnapped property, if they're out 5% in the Fund and at this rate, like now... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. )......................................................................................................... It takes a hundred years to pay compensation to all the owners whose property has been seized. You'll allow it, it's still too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26684	Is he applying for the word of MP Milos Todorovic, who also issued an opinion at the Committee's session? No, I don't. Thank you. We're moving on to the debate of the president of the parliamentary groups. The first was registered by MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group; then, MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, and MP Zoran Ćirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Then MP StevanGuduric, deputy president of the National Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union sees privatisation very differently in its programme than is done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We thought that if a factory was sold, most of the funds would remain in the municipality where it is, that a new small, medium-sized company would be created where these workers would be employed. However, this was not the case in previous practice. The application of the law, as the Serbian government has done so far, has led to great chaos in the economy and most likely that social unrest will occur very quickly, and actors will be those people who lost their jobs. The SSJ has an objection, specifically, to Article 20, where only 5% is expected to remain in the municipality of the sale of the factory, i.e. the company. I'm going to take an example of the cement factory, where a natural wealth was sold; 5% of it is very small and no company can be made to hire workers who have lost their jobs in cement. What's the result of selling the cement factory? The result is this: out of 2,400 workers, 1,500 were out of work. This means that the Serbian government's income tax budget will no longer be charged and the inflow into the Paracino budget will be reduced. It wasn't a good investment-social program. I once told the Minister of Privatisation, and I was just criticizing this member who says that the factory will be sold to the one who has the best investment-social program, not to the one who gives the most money. As a merchant, I see the first thing to be who the most money is. And what's a good investment program? Is it a good investment program for 1,500 people, times four family members, to mean 6,000 people to lose bread in the Paracino municipality? In particular, only 920 workers work in the Municipality of Parachin. Next, Mr. Mintre, there's a member of the Privatisation Act that anyone who buys a factory for at least five years can't alienate it, not even part of that factory. But that's not the case at the cement store. The buyer has already sold one part of the factory. The question is, how will the economy in Paracino live? To a large number of small businesses, 50 of them performed various cement services, today the traffic has dropped. Now I ask you Minister, is the price of cement reduced? No, I don't. You used to say that they were doing cheaper procurement instructions and repromation, and that would make cement cheaper. Nor is it, Minister, a cement cheaper, nor does the Serbian government have any perspective, except for a one-time use called the budget inflow, for workers formerly employed in cementery. I know, you're going to go out for a pay phone and you're going to say that they took between 7,000 and 10,000 euros. It's a very small figure that they can open up a company. The initial capital is a minimum of 50,000 marks, so much for a family company, that this family could start working. They're not even creditworthy, which is even the worst, on average, 10 to 15 years old, these people need to retire, what are these people gonna do the next day, when they get older, what are they going to live on, Mr. Minister? I see it as a businessman. When you were presenting the program in our cabinet, I asked you that question back then, and now it has proved that we from the Soviet Union were right, because I told you that there are a large number of employers in the Soviet Union and that you should accept those amendments that we have proposed, and you have not accepted until today. I'll let you know, Mr. Minister, what else is privatisation, in the way it was done, brought to the Kragujevac municipality. In the Kragujevac municipality, currently waiting for 23,000 people, 9,000 are at the Employment Service, 6,000 young people each year, or at the end of this year will finish high school, or colleges. When you add that up, it's about 38,000 people, Mr. Minister. In Kragujevac, around 38.00 people do not work, because programming is not good. What else privatisation has brought Serbia -- strikes in businesses. You're asking where? Here - a strike in Kragujevac, a strike in Prokuplje; today it will block you in Prokuplje; so many cities there are, I can't remember all the businesses; then the strike of Smederjevska Palanca. Do you know that there is a strike in the Smederjev Palace, that in the Cup, Mr. Minister, there is a strike? Now, where are the money going, Mr. Minister, from privatisation - as a privateer, if I want to sell, and I have three facilities, so I want to sell one, then I'm going to say - one I'm going to sell to, if I owe something (obviously the state owed something before you came to power), the other one I'm going to sell to buy a re-promotion, and the third one I'm going to keep to myself. You sold everything, and you didn't do any of this. So, money goes into the pension budget, pensions aren't increased, Mr. Minister, there are fewer pensions in this year than in last year; even if we look at the amount of agricultural pensions, Mr. Minister, the average is 1,000 dinars, and they're 20 and a few months late. Is, Mr. Minister, from the budget of the sold factories an increased salary in health -- no. The health department keeps texting you that they're gonna strike, that they're getting low wages, and you're saying you don't have where to come from. What are the salaries in the police, in the education, Mr. Minister? Yesterday I've been listening to your rally talk, so I'm justifying you for having such a rally talk, because you haven't been in Serbia in the last 10 years, and you haven't been when the mittins were held, but be careful, that's good for the ear, but painful for the soul and the heart, Mr. Minister. That's what some people listen to, and then they look, and then they say, "Where do we live, where do we live?" That this money, Mr. Minister, was given in the production of existing factories, which have a good investment, social and export programme, but no factory got (at least I don't know) any credit from sold factories and that it stood on its healthy feet. You, Mr. Minister, said yesterday that we were one of the best countries in transition and that we had to apply the programme, or the laws of other countries that were in the same situation as Serbia and Yugoslavia, and I remind you that no country in transition had the same fate and history as Serbia, because Serbia has been in isolation for the past 10 years and had several wars, so you couldn't compare us. You say there's a market economy, Mr. Minister. It is not true, you personally create competition for our producers in Serbia, both agricultural and heavy industries. In particular, you imported meat and now the price of the pig is at the market of 60 to 65 dinars, so the farmer can't buy one sack of concentrate and cover it when he sells the pig. I remind you that the pig roast in our restaurant is cheaper than the peasant pig at the market, and you were talking yesterday about how good it is. You say, Mr. Minister, that there is a market economy when it comes to businesses, so you say -- here's everything that we do in Serbia, you see, auction sales, tender sales, etc., so you take accounting, not market value, and then you sell a company 25 to 30 times cheaper than market value; and whoever goes to the tender took three, four -- there was a case a few days ago, you know what company in Jagodina, you know very well -- and only the price goes up once by 100,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26686	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26687	There was more, but it was a shame for those people to do so. So there is no market economy in Serbia, and the biggest responsibility is yours for it. You're saying the agency has the right to terminate the contract with the buyer who bought the factory. Why don't you break up the contract now with the cement shop buyer -- because he fired 1,500 workers; because he sold some of that factory; because, Mr. Minister, he's destroyed thousands of people in Paracino for all time, because there's nowhere else to work and what to live on.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26688	People's MP, do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26689	Here, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26690	It can't be much longer. It's the 12th minute. You got carried away, I'm asking you twice if you're using. Are you using or not using?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26691	I'm using. Mr. Minister says yesterday everything is fine in Serbia, that we all live well, and here's what the data from the Republic Development Institute says. So, for what you did yesterday at the rally for this pay phone, this data says it's not true. The Development Institute says the following -- the average salary in Serbia in January 2003 was 9,468 dinars and is lower than in December 2002 by 18.3%. It's been increased since December 2000, since you came to power, but only monetary mass, Mr. Minister, while purchasing power has been reduced. You got more bills, but that's why, when you get an electricity bill, which is 1,500 percent higher for those who go red, when you get communal services, when you get everything you have to do with the state, that's what citizens can respect. Furthermore, it says -- the number of job seekers in January 2003 was 923.3.77, which is 16.6% higher than in January 2002. That means, Mr. Minister, that most people have lost their jobs since you came to power in a year. The foreign trade deficit, which you boast, is never higher. And to remind you, Serbia has never been more popular in the last 10 years than in these two years, never more statesmen came to Serbia, than they have been in the last two years, and never less ino-contracts with business partners have been made. The question is - what is our popularity, do you do what you once did as an opposition took money from the international community, and now you have an obligation to ask them everything they ask for, and when it comes to The Hague tribunal and Serbs, all those in a photo; and you are looking at Mrs Natasha Micic to remind me, so it is all about the Privatisation Act. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, the foreign trade deficit in Serbia in 2000 amounted to 3.5 billion dollars and the export coverage was only 37%. How are you going to explain that to me? At the end of December 2002, Mr. Minister, 32,630 companies are inequitable, with 42,000 employees. Industrial production, you boast it increased in Serbia, decreased by 21% in January 2003 compared to December 2002. What's the cause, Mr. Minister? What, it wasn't working? (Minister Vlahovic, from the post: It was not done in January 15 days. Fifteen days didn't work in January? Well, 15 days at 365 days if they can have that impact and make production increase, you mean month by month, yeah, it's just in your view. Mr. Minister, you say - 15 days have not worked, and you DOS here in the Assembly have not worked since 2000. Those of you who have a steady working relationship, Mr. Minister, don't laugh, they came to work today at 11:00, whether they want to listen to the opposition or not, but their place of work is in this room, so they need to get into this room, sit down, Mr. Minister, and you're talking... And do you know how many MPs receive, you know -- 100 grand each...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26692	Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26693	It's all about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26694	It's not a subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26695	This is work, and because of work and work, as Mr. Minister says, Serbia is failing, so let's get started, let's see who doesn't do it in Serbia. So you're breaking that work obligation. And you know when you're 15 minutes late for work, unwarranted, two or three days, to lose your job. And you, gentlemen of the DOS, who have an obligation to arrive at 10.00 hours, you come at 11.00 and this morning, if there was no Serbian Unity Party, could not have started this work. We didn't want to make a quorum for you, but we can't waste time, because we from the Party of Serbian Unity, I believe and the rest of the opposition, didn't come here to earn wages, but we came to point out our experience and say that your laws that you've been making are harmful, and those that are being proposed today are very harmful. That's the point, Mr. Minister, and you'll have to answer, and that's why MPs don't come to work in the Republic Assembly. One hundred thousand dinars with diaries, and only for 120 dinars, Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26696	People's MP, I give you the first warning on the basis of Article 101, since even after my warnings, you don't stick to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26697	I thank you, but since I don't live off my parliamentary salary... You've reduced the Third Child Fund, because from the salary of the MPs, it goes to the Third Child Fund...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26698	I'm warning you again to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26699	I'm talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26700	Now you're talking about the Third Child Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26701	Okay, well, respected citizens of Serbia, you can see that you can't say one sentence, and this is all a subject. But it's a painful topic, and that's why there's this Parliament to accept both painful topics as truth and as a fact state and to say -- gentlemen, we tried, we couldn't do, we didn't know, we're going to back down now. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, the processing industry you boast about is less than 27.9% in January of this year than in December of last year. Is that also the cause of an unhappiness in January of 15 days. Mr. Minister throws me earlier -- we haven't worked in January for 15 days, which is why the decline in production is 923,000 people without a job in Serbia. Last year, Mr. Minister, 194 companies were privatised, with 342m euros in revenue. Where's the money, Mr. Minister? No one boasts that he has benefited from such money, no small and medium-sized enterprises are open in Serbia, not living well. What is it called - the future of Serbia? What is it that you can do with this law -- I have to keep mentioning the law, because Mrs. Natasha can give me a reminder -- what is it that Serbian citizens are getting tomorrow and will live better? You said you gave a grant from the budget for agriculture. Who are you talking to, Mr. Minister, what kind of subsidy? You gave a subsidy for agricultural products where 5% of the total agricultural product goes to people who are involved in the production of certain agricultural products. You didn't give a subsidy for agricultural machinery, and you promised. You didn't give a subsidy for the production of small and large cattle, and you promised. Also, what is your obligation, and you disrespected it, every year the peasants know what the price of grain is. To my question to the resolute Minister of Agriculture who will be priced in 2003, he says - that only God knows. Well, God didn't send you here, you and the government of Serbia, but sent you by the people of Serbia and the people of Serbia will be taking you away very soon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26702	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26703	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, 20 months ago the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the DOS's proposal for a privatisation law, which was then said to be pro-European, comprehensive, transparent; that its application in Serbia would improve, that honey and milk would start to flow; that the efficiency of the economy, production, number of employees would increase; attract foreign capital, and then some billions of marks were mentioned, that the standard of living would increase, etc. Privatisation was presented at the time for four years, and it was said that it was an optimal time for it to end. The objections, objections, the opposition's proposals were then rejected, by the DOS, as outdated, incompatible with the bill's proposal, unnecessarily, as was the SPS's proposal for employees to become the owners of the majority share of the company's capital, because they created it. In any case, the proposal was adopted as it was. This was the explanation of the applicant and formally. The essential goal was to completely eliminate social property, to keep workers without ownership and job, and to make the government the only capital master in Serbia, so that privatisation can carry out what it wants, so that companies can sell as cheaply as possible, literally into depravity, as it did, but not as much as it wanted. Now the law is changing and 26 members are subject to change. The time and place, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is to say - why changes are being made to the law. Essentially, the Privatisation Act failed to meet the objectives set or promises made. Production in Serbia is almost non-existent, i.e. negative. The state doesn't invest in production. There are no direct investments in the economy. There's a huge foreign trade deficit, we heard -- about four billion dollars. Unemployment in Serbia has already reached a figure of nearly a million people, and the unemployed will be growing more and more. Experts only differ in whether the unemployed will be 250,000 or 500,000. Foreign assistance is shrinking. Debt payments are increasing, which will be bigger and bigger in the coming years. Instead of doing something, the government of the Republic of Serbia convinces us that we do not understand the reforms being carried out, boasts that the IMF estimates are positive, excellent, and does not tell us that the patient, the Serbian brewery, will run out of capital, that all will literally go to the parades and that the shock therapy of the IMF, which DOS is implementing, will produce. OECD experts in their report on the already former SRJ, as the DOS abolished it, say the industry is affected by the transition recession. That's what they think of our country's economy. They primarily think of Serbia. Our experts, though those who are not part of the DOS establishment, say the situation in the economy is catastrophic, that the transition recession has not occurred, and that when the recession takes hold, the situation in the economy will be even worse. Why are the privatisation results bad? Because of the law and the way privatisation is conducted. Time has shown that positive examples of privatisation are those implemented under the previous law, adopted by the Socialists, and employed by majority capital owners. In these social enterprises, the situation is good, companies work, employees receive personal incomes. In these companies, employees, defending their jobs and their assets, did not allow the formation of crisis headquarters or the suspension of production. That this model of privatisation is good, it is best to confirm the companies that have made privatisation and work according to this model, which are "Tiger" Pirot, "Metalac" Gornji Milanovac, "Hemofarm", "Dunav" Grocka, "Apantic brewery", "Mountain" Kursumli and many others who are working successfully. I must say, on behalf of the SPS, that we did not expect, and probably not the employees, to see political changes in Serbia so quickly, nor that DOS will have such a relationship with social capital and employees. If we knew what it was going to be, the privatisation would certainly be armed, and thus there would be an opportunity for all employees to move faster into the privatisation process and become owners of capital, because they created it anyway, means that they become owners of businesses. Our view is that employees should be the owners of majority package actions and we, following that logic in these amendments and additions to the Law, have suggested that employees can set up a consortium for the purchase of capital, with the right to purchase according to the estimated value of capital or property, without public auction or tender, and under the same other conditions. In this law, something could be favourable for the workers. How is privatisation being conducted and why is it bad? During the privatisation process, the methodology of the estimated value of capital has been changed so far, and the money spent for that, of course, no one is counting. According to the government, the institutions of the government are strengthened, i.e. privatisation and are invested in money, of course with foreign consultants and privatisation as it is. For the most part, businesses that have a good business space have been sold, there are catering and shopping. We have cases that in the second round of sales some companies are sold at multiple prices, even there are cases where the price is 100 times lower. We don't have the money, Minister, so we couldn't, but those rich people who have it, they did it. We have an example of companies sold because, for a few euros, they have great obligations. In practice, however, there is a situation that simply people can't collect their claims, where they're told - you won't get the money, the judges won't make a verdict in your favor, the only way to collect it is to agree to this price that we dictate to you. Of course, the example of privatisation in a negative sense is a 22-story CK building, with several thousand squares of basement space, sold for 10 million marks, and we know that the area in New Belgrade is for Mercator needs, without construction, sold for 28 million marks. A special bad example of privatisation is bankruptcy, literally destroys what was created and is mainly done to provide a good business space. I have information that the "Serbostamp" in the city centre, whose property was estimated at 2.5 million marks, was taken into bankruptcy by 10,000 marks, and the employees knew nothing about it. The question is what is the situation in the Belgrade department houses, and perhaps in some other businesses, and the other day Beko was also forced into bankruptcy, certainly because of business space, because there are very attractive shops in the very centre of Belgrade. For us, MPs of the SPS, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are not acceptable, in addition to the mentioned ones, and for the following reasons. The government practically takes over the entire privatisation process. Secondly, a legal entity with a majority social capital cannot participate in privatisation and if it is the holder of that type of business, and if it is a participant, it can increase its value, it can change the structure of capital, improve the market position. What's the government afraid of? Probably higher prices for these companies, because if privatisation is also armed, and it is, then the company must be privatised, but then obviously its price will be higher, which the government does not want. The period of validity of the law is being extended, and in itself it says enough how successful privatisation has been so far. It prohibits employees from potentially increasing their salaries if there are conditions, because the government simply does not want anything to change within the company before the final sale. The government is ousting company representatives from the privatisation chain. What the company's gonna do is, it's important that the government and the buyer are there. Part of the privatisation funds goes into the budget, the budget needs to be filled, it is the primary function, because the budget is known to be the basis for the government's survival. About businesses, businesses, the government just doesn't care. It is constantly said that a very successful environment is being created for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and data and experts say there is nothing. There are no unions representing the interests of employees; of course, those governments are not needed because they can ask to show greater concern for employees, to apply a social programme, which they do not want to apply and accept, because it points out that large social rights scare the buyer. Finally, one seemingly technical thing is abolished the customer's obligation to provide a certificate of compliant liabilities based on extraprofits. This shows that the law itself had a political character, a goal that is political, which is the Satanization of the Socialists. The goal of collecting billions of marks in the Republic of Serbia's budget has not been met, as real capital owners have been left aside, so now they do not need to be disturbed by some unnecessary certificates, to legalise and reproduce their capital. From all of this, and it is known that we have not voted for the law itself, we believe that these changes are only part of the system established by earlier law, that it can be very little improved and we Socialists will be against this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26704	National MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, asked for a word, and I remind you that your parliamentary group has authorised a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Zlata Djeric, to share the time in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26705	Mrs. Comic, you may have missed yesterday's debate, it ended at 18 o'clock, and the minister disqualified the previous speaker, a member of the New Serbia MP club, Professor Stamenkovic, when he tried to replicate it; not you, but Mrs. Micic has made it impossible for him to do so. It's possible you're not familiar with that. For this reason, Mr. Stamenkovic has discreetly made it clear that he has the right to reply. Of course, the replica will have an effect if it is obtained in a timely manner. Now, even with the delay, the law remains. So, as the head of the parliamentary group, I am protesting, pointing to the article 97 that you have violated, if your answer is not a member, then I ask that the Administrative Committee be declared, but the whole thing can be overcome by giving Mr. Stamenkovic his word, though with restraint, but he has the right to react. To remind him, the minister accused him of political demagogy and populism. Well, you just set that thing up in a stenogram, maybe it was a sumptuous accusation, I don't know, that's the thing that you're going to discuss with the speaker that you've apostropheeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26706	Discretional powers, including the basis for replication and the right to replication, do not fall under the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to ask for the right to full application of the Rules of Procedure to be read by all members who refer to an area where MPs believe that their rights have been compromised or violated. When continuing the session in the morning section remains recorded who was speaking and who was first in line to speak, so that it would be the basis for the replica today in the afternoon part of the session. The word has been given by MP Stevan Guduric, an authorised representative of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26707	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Privatisation Minister, I can't say about the economy, because as far as the economy is concerned, I'd rather call you the liquidator of the Serbian economy, and at least if you were bankrupt, there's a chance in bankruptcy, and there's nothing in liquidation. I'll try to give you a few arguments. We, the National Socialists, have not made amendments to this law, not because we believe that everything is good, but because we think it is so bad that no amendments can be fixed. The practice, which I'm about to settle today and probably tomorrow here with you, will show that we're right, because yesterday you made an effort to give us one hour of 45 minutes, I just don't think this debate is going to make you a student, who's going to answer and I don't think he's going to get a transitional grade. You're a member of the government, and she said like this, and I'm going to quote, so I'm asking this to be rejected: "The agency which, according to experience, creates additional administration, which significantly slows down the privatisation process. In addition, the existence of an agency as a body responsible for the performance of all privatisation professions opens up the possibility of unbiased and biased treatment when carrying out the procedure. The agency as a permanent body, with a limited number of employees, is unable to meet the professional needs in different areas of privatisation. Finally, as an intermediary between the buyer and the seller, the existence of the agency is unnecessary administration in this area." That is the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's only one change in that, instead of privatisation - concessions, and if the agency's wrong then it's never good. You are a member of the government, and you once said that the agency is something that is very much needed, and you once said that something that is not necessary and you need to explain to this world what is listening to these transfers by the Assembly. All the government said was that it was an agency, and therefore, if the government once claimed that the agency was something that was given to God, then the second time it couldn't say that nothing was right, because you said yesterday: a historic decision twenty and a change of months ago in the adoption of the Privatisation Act. It's just a bad historical decision because the Serbian economy will be sold out, because when something is sold out it's a matter of some normal price, and it's sold out something else. In the team, what do you say to public and transparent tenders, and if it's transparent that you write a banner, so you hang it up that it's transparent, then you're right. In everything else, it has nothing to do with any transparency and transparency to see what is done. That's why in the tender for the sale of the Beician cement factory, the tender was first such that it eliminated the unwanted, which offered a lot more money. You know that as well as I do. Also, for the recapitalisation of the Beocinski cement factory in 1999, this same Lafarge offered significantly more money than 70% of the shares, and we know that. Beocin isn't exactly New York, but in Beocin we know a lot of things we wouldn't have to know. This public transparent tender first eliminated some bidders because you put -- who doesn't produce a lot of cement can't play in the tender. You read the tender, you know everything. Then, out of transparency, those sealed envelopes were walking from some vault to a commission and today, the members of the tender commission don't know what was in them with the contract between Lafarja and the Beician cement factory and the agency, and there are so many annexes that neither God can hold the head nor the tail anymore. There's so much that you can't get any information from the agency because the part between local self-government and BFC Lafarza should practically be a basic contract annex. When you don't have a basic contract to see, not to have it in your hands, then you can't make an annex and what's transparent about it? Nothing. There's no transparency in that transparent sale of yours. Yesterday you claimed that there was electricity among other things, and there was no problem with electricity. If what they did under some past bad authority was working, and now it's stopped working under this good authority, then it's normal to have electricity. The electricity can't be spent by me and Mr. Toma Nikolic because we're going to be heating up on electricity, but it can spend the company if it works and the companies don't work. Since the beginning, a few things have been disputed. First, in this transparent privatisation, your company was doing an assessment of the capital of Beocinski cement factory for the needs of Lafarz during the time of the Government of Mirko Marjanovic. Then after you as minister, you sold that same cement factory to that same Lafarja. I won't say anything, but you can draw your own conclusions out of it. Then, you told us here and claimed that local self-government would get 5% of the privatisation. Then there was someone lying to us. Do you, did Minister Djelic, since someone in the meantime stole our 5% tax. Because, Minister, when you buy a piece of land or buy a house, you pay taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, and your and Mr. Djelic's ministry said it can't, but we can raise it from 3% to 5% if Pera buys an apartment or pays 5% instead of 3%, because Peru, Jank and Mark need to be fined, and someone Hans, George and Pierre don't give God, it's not convenient. Therefore, whether of yours, some other, third or seventh governments will surely make Beocin municipality a reality, only that the watch-cam is ticking, because only for your information and you will have to explain it from here, and not from there, as Minister Djelic tried to explain to me, it is explained from here and that everyone says I am wrong, and you are right about the tax, because in Beocino the catastra writes BFC Lafarz. It's not just a change of name. A change of name is not done in a catastra. Therefore, someone stole Beocina 5% or Serbianly stole 170 million dinars from him. And for much less, we're going to drive ourselves into unconsciousness and we're going to get that money, and your law certainly can't bring a transitional assessment. (Kedomir Jovanovic: What is the salary? ) In Beocino, Chedo friend, the highest salary in the last 10-15 years in the country, and then we are very unhappy when we are third in the country. So, no Lafarge has brought us happiness in terms of wages, and thank you for reminding me, because Beocin had the highest wages and when 1,000 cement workers, who have not worked since November last year, received those highest salaries in Serbia. At the Beocinian cement factory before Lafarja's salary was only 10% lower, nothing spectacular. The only spectacular thing that happened was that 964 workers in Beocino lost their jobs in that transparent privatisation, and I think there will be more left. Also, besides being paid, how much was paid for the Beocinian cement factory, about 110 million marks or 52 million dollars, no yellow franc, dollar, stamp, euro, anything else came there, because the payments of those workers were made from current production, because investments will be made as well as air pollution from current production, and there is no new franc in the country, Mr. Minister. It was good in Beocin and without the French; I told Mr. Djelic the other day - that it wasn't us, thank you for your French and everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26708	I have not heard whether MP Tomislav Nikolic is seeking a replica or as president of the parliamentary group. The minister answered, and then the MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to report for a word today because I think the criticisms are mostly general, without any arguments, and where the arguments come out, they're absolutely wrong. First, the reason for the announcement is just the last debater and the story of the Beocian cement factory, and I'm going to try to combine all the other criticisms I've heard before. The tender for privatization of the Beician cement factory was really transparent, if you want fascinating. In the tender for the privatisation of Beocinski cement factory, which was published in both domestic and international press, and something I don't remember before we could hear that something was privatized, let alone in the press that was published, all interested in the purchase of Beocinski cement factory participated. It's true there was a so-called. A restriction on who can participate, for the simple reason we've made a promise here that it's an interest for big firms to buy strategic partners. Among other things, you received reports, the Privatisation Committee, this National Assembly, about how some tenders failed because customers who do not meet all the conditions came forward. The Beician cement factory received the most favourable conditions, measured by a ton of cement production, compared to the entire Central and Eastern Europe. Vienna cement factory now achieves the best results in its history; measured: income, profit, investment. Before privatization, the Beocinium cement factory was not prevented from extracting funds from liquid liquidity to invest in environmental protection, to invest from the current liquidity in raising technical and technological levels, so that didn't happen. It didn't happen because that profit, that liquidity, as it was done, did not provide that level of necessary investment. There's a guarantee in the Beocian cement factory that there's no firing for five years. The same goes for the Popovac cement factory. Anyone who voluntarily wants to get out of the company comes out with severances that are negotiated between unions and buyers. The average severances at Beocina cement factory -- between 25,000 and 30,000 euros, depending on years of work. Similar severances were also in Popovac cementery. If you have any other information, come out and explain it. The Beician cement factory today, along with another cement factory, and you can read that from any impartial analysis, is the best example of what it means to restructure these companies after privatisation, when you have a private owner. What exactly was going on with one, the other and the third cement store until there was no owner? It is true, many have knocked after privatisation, many private firms have knocked. Why? Because purchases in all cement plants are now made on the basis of competitive offers, not on the basis of links between management directors of social enterprises and private companies. Do you know what the first move in Popovac cement was when the new owner arrived? The first move was a letter to all suppliers and a notice that the purchase price is down 35% and anyone who doesn't want to, please report. All 3% of suppliers gave up on the continued supply of Popovac cement, 97% continued to work with Popovac cement factory, regardless of the price of their purchases being reduced by 30%. How long has it been in the past 10-20 years from this social enterprise, and what concern has been driven about interests, about profits that a social enterprise needs to make? Let the public conclude this, and you conclude it yourself. It's called private property. When we have private property, then a private company from a private company can't steal, because nobody in their right mind is going to let someone else make money on the back of the first one, because that's his, that's his atre. Then it is about reducing costs and how to protect the right workers, who are willing to work effectively and to be adequately rewarded. You can't go out at any cement store anymore and jump for a drink to the cafeteria, you can't come drunk to work, you have to wear a helmet for the basic personal and professional protection of these workers. It's called the discipline of the market economy and, above all, private economy. It's a story about one, the other, the third cementary. It is truly sad and rather grotesque to listen to advice on how something should not be done, and counselors do not offer alternative ways to implement this process. Yesterday I told you where the privatisation money went: the budget. The budget also provides funding, subsidies and economics, social programmes for businesses. It is true, there are more than seven billion, look at the budget law of the Ministry of Agriculture, the part relating to subsidies in agriculture. That's all true. You had a chance to discuss it. Gentlemen, a much larger amount of money is returning to the economy and benefits of funding social programmes than was the amount of budget revenues from privatisation last year. Of course, the worst part is that the state distributes money and the bank behaves, because when the state wants to be a bank, it ends up like those four banks did last year. When the state shares money for the economy and forms businesses, then these companies usually end up in bankruptcy, then the money is collected from taxpayers and the state should not work. What we need to do is use all the mechanisms to build a successful, efficient market economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26710	Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents answering for a word? (Stevan G. Guduric: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic presented facts he knew. (Stevan Ž. Gudurić: The speaker did not give the truth. ) He answers for the truthfulness of the information he gave for the speaker, both as Minister of Economy and Privatisation and personally, if he respects this National Assembly. You have not been mentioned, it has not been commented and you do not have a basis for replication. Is there any other president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups who want a word? The word has been issued by MP Zlata Djeric, the authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, New Serbia is not satisfied with this legislative project that has been offered to us, and if there is no hearing of a significant number of amendments, we will not be able to support it. There's a lot of talk about denationalization here. We have insisted and we believe that it is logical and fair, which will certainly show that the law on denationalisation is passed, that the nationalised assets are exempt from the privatisation process. If you don't, it'll be a big problem. Problems in the privatisation process already exist. That's what my predecessors have been talking about. I'd like to point out some other failures. We are extremely bothered by this legislative project, which is exempt and marginalised in the process of selling companies to trade unions or workers; privatisation flows between the government and the buyer. It's extremely harmful, and I'm going to prove it to you by argument, Mr. Minister, on one case -- although it's quite discriminatory now, is it even a problem of privatisation, and is it a matter of privatisation at all - and that's a flag? The moment a buyer appeared next to Newkarko, that is, when a new buyer, which is Yukan from Canada, at the moment Newkarko, which so far applies to the only buyer, offered 25 million more prices, means 175 million compared to the previous 150. (Alexander Vlahovic: After 135 and previously offered 130.) He cut the price? (Alexander Vlahovic: It is an investment. I'd like you to explain, because we're extremely interested in the transparency we're talking about. If it's a newspaper mistake, you'll have to go to the papers and explain it. We are extremely interested, as it is said about transparency, as it is said about some market values and laws, is it possible that some companies are also privatised outside the law of strategic importance. I'm thinking again, Mr. Minister, of the flag. We're interested in whether the flag is being sold tenderly or auctioned, since the newspaper keeps mentioning the exclusiveity of the contract that exists with Newkark, and our Privatisation Act does not know the exclusiveity. He mentions it, please, the chairman of the board of directors. I'll prove it to you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If by chance there is an exclusive pre-determination, the exclusiveness of the Members of Parliament, and I say this first and foremost because of the citizens who are watching this, pays. We're interested, is he paid, paid how much he's paid and who he's paid to, of course? That's the important question, Mr. Minister, because the flag is the strategic interest of this country. Furthermore, if all customers are given equal terms, that's the market. I know that Yukan sent Mr. Secretary a letter of intent, on January 16th, it was on your desk, and it was responsible for him after a month, the moment he got in touch with the unions and when they started asking for a few more customers to show up. We're all some small buyers, and we know, at the market, if there's more customers, there's a better offer. Therefore, Mr. Minister, we are interested in the privatisation going justly and transparently, so that no more Red sugars will happen, which this people will never forgive you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26712	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move to a debate in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the principle debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Privatisation. First reported is MP Vlatko Sekulovic, followed by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26713	The Honorable Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, the amendments and additions to this law are an opportunity to create a summary of what was done in the period from June 2001, when this law was passed and such a concept of the privatisation of enterprises in social property was adopted until today. Initial difficulties - what my colleagues in the SDP saw as members of the resolution committees in charge of privatisation and development - were caused, especially in the first year, by a rather complex structure that was to be set up for the realization of a very serious social process like this. That's why too many optimistic statements during that period, i.e. given before the law itself, are not fully realised. However, we have all witnessed that in the last period, and especially since October, there has been an acceleration of the privatisation process. If this year continues at such a pace of realization as it has been in the past three months, or two months last year, a good part of government and ministry plans will be realised. I'll only give you the information, and I don't know if it's been said before in the discussions, that out of the total number of privatisations through the auction some 42% was realised only in December 2002. This suggests that the process of accelerated privatisation through auction yields its results. If we may have had some chills in mid-2002 whether we can successfully privatise a large number of enterprises in social property, i.e. to identify their titler, I think we can observe this year with more optimism, especially as regards auctions. Therefore, the general assessment of the SDP is that the privatisation process, despite initial difficulties, has nevertheless achieved results that earn confidence that the targets set in the coming period will be realised. As far as the proposed law is concerned, its basic characteristic is a certain explanation of how we experience it. In fact, the basic text of the law always mentions - the subject of privatisation, not only as an entity that had certain competences regarding the technical preparation and control of the privatisation process, but as an entity that sells itself. There is in one member there that the privatisation entity sells 70% of its capital. I think it's been a mistake since the very beginning, and maybe it's a good thing she's correcting herself at this point, because that unsub can't sell himself. It's a mistake like that when you write on the car "sales up the Apple Questionon", not "apel the questionon for sale". Someone else is selling it. So in a specific case, about these enterprises in social property, it simply did not stand for such a formulation. Maybe she caused a lot of difficulties in practical realization. On the other hand, one of the conconsequences of such an attitude was also a famous provision regarding the third signature of the contract. We will return to the company's purchase contract once a concrete discussion on the SDP amendment is made about it. We're not saying that this amendment is going in that direction to keep the formulations -- the subject of privatisation, is not meant to be an absolute imperative. I hope that through the discussion at the Assembly itself, we will later express certain models as a compromise solution. The point in the SDP's view is that the privatisation entity must retain its right to participate in the whole privatisation process. This is, however, already foreseen for other members of the Privatisation Act itself as regards the initiative, the preparation of privatisation documents and so on. But we believe that certain rights of privatisation entities should also be guaranteed in the finalisation of that process, through a tender committee or otherwise, if we do not agree to keep the signing of the privatisation entity on the contract itself. I have singled out in the principle debate that characteristic change proposed by the SDP because I think it affects the somewhat spirit and concept of these amendments and the addition of the law, because it is precisely better defined as a subject of privatisation. Some more questions deserve attention. I would just like to point out this opportunity that in the discussion, we will take special care of the rights of employees in the privatisation process, obtained from some other legal acts, and there is the possibility of them being regulated in this law. In particular, we believe that excessive administration is present, although it is necessary by the agency, or the state in the privatisation process, but it should still have certain limits. When we discussed in our time the consequences of amending the Law on Federal Businesses, relating to the restriction of certain company rights in the privatisation process, we then had in mind, in these discussions, that there was a great possibility of abuse, as well as concrete cases of abuse of social property for some illegal or illegal privatisation. However, it is one side of the medal, and the other must be that the agency is not overloaded by the administration of enterprises, but rather by setting it perhaps some more objective boundaries in which it would move, all in order for this process to be as effective as possible. So, in principle, we can say that this legal project is acceptable. We believe that it will contribute to further simplification and clarification of certain ambiguities in the previous law. There are certain members we believe should be changed. We had, uh, to say this occasion, a pretty good collaboration with the Secretary of Resort. I hope that through the discussion in particular we will have the opportunity to further improve this text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26714	The word has been made by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to whine about that replica, but I'm going to quote the minister in that piece that's talking about me. When it comes to the cash compensation of former owners, I am surprised that the MP who previously voted for a settlement on cash compensation, implemented in the original Privatisation Act, is now questioning the way in which former owners are compensated. I think there's a big source in that section for what's-his-name. political populistism, for demagogy, and basically none of you are ready to come out and pass on the experiences of other countries in transition -- how they referred to the problem of denationalisation. And by the way, when it comes to cash compensation in the Privatisation Act a year and a half ago, we all remember well, Mr. Minister said that the restitution refers exclusively to 50 companies with whose former owners, or heirs, the agreement is that the only fair compensation is cash; that is, we have a good memory, and it did not refer to other assets, and that property is worth billions of dollars. Next, Mr. Minister, the demagogue and the populist, and I know a lot of experience in transition countries, let me give it to you. By the way, I'm one of the damaged heirs, it's our right to fight for our property, and as far as experience goes, we can talk about it for days. I'll just pass on a couple of tutorials. You know the Avemark firm, you've contacted her. When the gentleman tried to buy it, he soon gave up when they started plowing lawsuits from former owners of the country, who sued him for compensation. Normally, whoever buys stolen goods must be clear to him that at some point, as an accomplice to the theft, they'll probably be responsible for that. That's what I'm saying to those who are now involved in such processes. Another example, on the other hand, is a little more positive. One of my friends and colleagues, former professor of the University of Ljubljana, and now counsellor for the European Council programme, received two castles in Slovenia in 1992 with a few hundred acres of forest and meadows, only on one basis - his Mrs. Katarina is from the Trieste family Lazarina, directly and indirectly, the successor of Lazar Hrebeljanović. So the descendants of Prince Lazarus can get their property, but not in Serbia. When it comes to these assets, which we, former owners, and I hear that you are, and emotionally bound, because in it are the lives of our ancestors, I hope yours too, there is so-called. an effective or immeasurable value; that's what no one can make up for. When you pass that property, so remember how many of your ancestors have built their lives into it, and then in the past time they've been gardening on that property some other, now some new hoardery, but still it's someone who usurps other people's rights. So I repeat once again, we who have endured in these places for centuries, my family for seven centuries, have maintained Serbia (this is not pulsism), while some have fled and earned their property in the white world, even that applies to Serbs' villages, have been keeping away from these areas of ours, and ours have stayed here, so each other or third has gone on a stake, suffered the consequences, but with their staying they have maintained the heart in this space. You can now qualify us to be a little less mondialysts, that we are populists, nationalists, traditionalists, yes, when we get fucked by a few sparks, because for generations, that is, we lay down injustice, we speak immediately in hate language. But we have maintained our heart in these places, and if we fight for our hearths and for our future generations, to keep their property in their space, I think we're absolutely right. As far as this law is concerned, we have tried to satisfy the work of our people -- because the Property Protection League is organizing a population just like the Minister and myself -- even officially, here, the Finance Committee has received a letter from SO Great Plan, in which we, as well as the Government, the committees address with a request, by a number of points. The second point is said to "the relevant legal act limits the turnover of the nationalised after the Second World War". We in New Serbia have tried to meet these requirements, we intervened with the amendment to Article 25, where we said that in the sale of ownership where majority social capital was isolated from the part of the property that was made by nationalisation. Unfortunately, the amendment was rejected, the minister looked at it and said two seconds later - he can't. Well, I'm sorry, that's why we won't vote for this law either; and we can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26716	The word is by MP Vojislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26717	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am one of those who, 20 months ago, with this pay phone, supported the adoption of the Privatisation Act. As it deeply penetrates the very structure of our society, as one of the most important laws, it certainly deserves to be commented on the experience of its application. In 20 months, we privatized 470 companies under this law; for a decade before that, the privatisation of all 60 companies was completed, and only two of them had completed the post-privatization phase, i.e. where capital concentration has been carried out. The revenue achieved by Serbia by selling in the first year of implementation of the Privatisation Act is 300m dollars. The comparisons work, Hungary, as an example of a successful transition in the first year of privatisation, resulted in a sale of capital of only $11m or 27 times less. Investments came to Serbia in the first year of law enforcement amounted to $335m. Again compared to Hungary, where 20 million dollars was invested in the first year, we realize that we had 17 times more investment in the first year of the privatisation law. There are no serious and real affairs during the implementation, so in the professional and general public, there is essentially a consensus that according to this law there is a need to complete the privatisation process in Serbia. Of course, implementation practice can be criticised from many different angles, but I personally expected far more problems in implementing this law, so today the difficulties present are fully suited to the depth of the problems solved by this law. But this law has certain weaknesses, and it is good that these flaws are being corrected by this proposal. One of the basics, in my court, stems from the essence and access to that law. The law deals primarily with privatization of social enterprises and, in some ways, leaves the privatisation of companies that have a title; I mean privatization of state-owned enterprises. Of course, most of the public enterprises will not privatise, most of them should remain in their own state, but public enterprises have their segments, parts, their subsidiaries, and they are, by their nature, and should be the subject of privatisation. It was one of the serious faults of the previous law, as one of its members said it was not possible to privatise dependent companies beyond the privatisation process of the parent company. It's a good thing we change that part of the law and make it possible to privatise dependent companies. The flaw in this proposal is a lack of insight into the consequences of selling companies with the titler, essentially state-owned, and according to the status of its founders - public enterprises. When a contract is signed, there are two parties with obligations. One is a buyer, another agency, i.e. State. However, there is also a third party with obligations when selling dependent companies, which is the founder of a dependent company. Today, we can divide subsidiaries into two categories. One category is former social enterprises, which have become addictive on various grounds, most often due to a significant debt to public enterprises, when virtually public enterprises have converted their claims into capital and become the founders of these dependent companies; these are very often classical industrial plants, where there is no public interest and by their nature are completely clear subject to privatisation. However, there is another group of dependent companies: it will appear in the process of restructuring public enterprises. It is there that public enterprises are obliged to create today, design these new public enterprises, to turn what is not a basic business in the first step into dependent enterprises and leave it to privatisation in the second. I think it's much better for us here as legislators to create an ambience in order to stimulate the management of public enterprises to go courageously and resolutely into creating dependent businesses and privatising them, than to expect the state, as the nominal owner of all these assets, to try to stimulate public enterprises to form and privatise dependent companies. In fact, there is a danger that when it comes to the formation of addictive companies, if the management of public enterprises assesses an unfavourable environment for the creation and privatisation of dependent companies, that we form businesses as patients, that in the beginning we burden them with debts, claims, too many labour forces and that we trust them with jobs that are not profitable in themselves; we do not need to restructure public enterprises by pushing bad jobs into dependent businesses, in advance knowing that they are destined to fail. I don't think that's the right way. Public enterprises should design new dependent companies with the intention of getting good and quality business partners, but this requires an environment. In that sense, I have also proposed an amendment to this law. Of course, I'll talk about it when it comes to amendments. I suggest that the Minister accept the amendment and that this is how we make up the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26718	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26719	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in amendments and additions, the existing law is partially corrected. However, there is basically a lot left over from real practice. The privatisation of one company ends, but in this bond that is drawn up and signed, the reality of the relationship does not point to good relations in the social programme and creates one serious imperceptibility. When it comes to large companies that are privatised, here tomorrow is the last day for the handover of final accounts, again these same companies, as in the time of full sanctions and total blockade, show positive business, pay huge corporate tax amounts and regulate all obligations as in years when they were not privatised. It seems to me that the economic policy strategy has not combined all the elements so that the privatisation process can be fully explained. First, the question had to be solved - what is state property. What kind of economic systems is the state interested in? Because there are some strategic branches, and I think agriculture is one of the most important, besides other important ones, such as construction, meditation complex, whose numerous companies remain beyond the serious process, and these days some continue to strike. So, there was a lack of full view of the economic policy of the state, because there is not only a process of privatisation as a dry form, and there is no total political and economic relationship from which the continent of the economy of a country will be seen. When I complete an existing banking system in all of this, where we have large "offshore" companies calling themselves banks; there is no firm guarantee of the name and last name of the foreign bank that it will guarantee the bank's accidental loss of capital, there is only $5 million founding role behind it; there is little investment in Serbia's economy; there are expensive loans; there is much missing that the privatisation process would really look like a normal one. A large number of people are out of work, the economic environment is bad, banking policy is catastrophic. Therefore, it is not only possible to look at the corpus of privatisation activities, as well as the funds to address the privatisation problem in Serbia. In Serbia, there are 50 to 100 large companies that are constantly making good incomes; these are donors; large financials; they stand behind sports collectives and cultural events; they all make their environment live when it comes to economic production. However, if these issues are not resolved, banking policies, economic policies of the state, the privatisation process will not go well. The state has to stand behind one part of the economy and say, this is our interest, we support this. Construction in Serbia stands. Many travel abroad, we can't see that some big business has been arranged for Serbian construction in the previous period. When you look at that we have with our traditional partners the lowest level of traffic in this previous period, and there are the lowest customs rates, because at a level of 1%, when we are all in a hurry to enter the European Union, and the European Union has 10 times more standards when it comes to goods and products from the current Yugoslavia, or Serbia-Montenegro, there is much missing that the total of the privatisation process would have a real positive flow. Therefore, I look at privatisation in the context of all these processes. If these processes aren't enough, then privatisation isn't good, because we still have a recession in the economy, a drop in economic production, we don't have a good monetary policy. I think she's privatized in the image of a man. There's so much missing that everything would look like a good business environment. We need these basic macroeconomic processes when it comes to the economic policy of the state. The national economy of this country is important, it covers all these processes. For these reasons, I think that the privatisation process, regardless of the desire to do it in the most qualitative way, will not be good until the end, nor will it show the right quality that is expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26720	People's Socialist MP group, this is the time they've spent at their disposal. The word has a People's MP Srda Popovic, followed by MP Milos Lukic. National MP Srda Popovic is giving up the debate. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic. He's not in the O.R. After him, the word is made by MP Dragisa Marinkovic. Does MP Dragisa Marinkovic give up the debate? The word has a National MP, Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministry, I'm listening to all this talk today. I believe that you will agree with me that for this country, during this Dossian government there are no more important things than privatisation; that is, even the most important thing that will happen in these four years in this country. It's that driving force to get out of the crisis the next day and get to the right path that goes towards developed society, including Europe. Now I want to look back at those who are criticizing today, and here are just some amendments to this law, because we have passed that law and here we have colleagues who were with us at DOS yesterday, and now they're not and now they say we're not going to support these changes. You have no reason not to support them. You're making up some of the reasons that are really irrelevant, like if a committee was in charge or not to talk, and that committee didn't make a decision and adopt this law in principle. So these are some transparent reasons, but if we agreed that this is the most important thing for this country in the years to come, don't let yourself trip, because there's nothing here in these laws that's illogical. I'll try to analyze in a few lines everything that's been suggested, there's really nothing here that's so illogical. A gentleman who digs coal, and calls himself a farmer, makes so much of the truth about this pay phone, accusing the government of not investing in agriculture, in this or that. How can someone call himself a farmer because he digs coal and gives coal to the military, gets money, and the military gets money from the budget, and farmers in his day have not been paid for everything that is being paid today. Come on, tell me, when, at what age, the peasant was paid for in time, grain, tail and everything else. We're not here to spit without looking ourselves in the eye and not looking at the truth. The gentlemen in the previous regime tried to make some privatisation; you had, gentlemen, two attempts. You've been messing with something about privatization. You've privatized the best medium-sized companies in this country that exist, it's gone to the private sector, but you don't even know who owns it. You say, "Workers." Now these workers, when they come and apply to the temporary register, they're not workers at all, but, gentlemen, they're directors, because they got the sausages from the workers for a gift of action. So, shares worth 10-15 thousand marks per worker, someone gave them a present. Tell that story to someone else, not to us. Everything that enters the provisional register, which comes to the Privatisation Agency, has to be clean and that's what's going on with you today. Companies privatized under that system in 1997, do not report business, trying in all ways to avoid obligations. We're one channel, as they try to avoid, already found. We won't let that channel be attributed to this government the next day. When a good host has no money, and I understand that the country does not sell the best field, and you have sold Telecom to Serbia. Don't forget, it's the best field in every country in Europe. You sold, laugh, now that the real host has come to this house called Serbia, we bought and returned that field to our property, that's right. Just remember, 20% of that money never got into this country and you don't know where it is. I know, in your private pockets, those who worked with those things. You're criticizing us that we're not transparent today and that we're not doing the right thing. All the reasons you've given, none of them are true. You talk about us, you say-- you sell companies for small money. When it's a little bit more open, I don't see any DOS MPs buying any company, and there's a lot of those who bought these companies amongst you. Picked up the money you made back then, the way you made your living. Yeah, it's our fault, it's true we didn't shake you up a little bit and ask you where you got the money from. I agree, and you agree with me that you bought these companies. I mean, you have no right to criticize. Privatisation in this country is going its course and everything is totally clean. Cementara; one of the bright examples of how work is done openly and honestly, how the new host who came into that house does quality work. That's the same thing with "Merimo." We're talking about protecting the environment here. You know what you've been doing in the past, what we've all been doing, and I mean myself because I've been working at the same firm. Everything that was waste and poison we pushed into the river. Today we came to the point that the new owner of "Merime" said, "Yes, gentlemen, you have wastewater processing facilities," but all that you washed from the floor you pushed into the sewer and it went to Morava. We'll make filters for it, and the Mary will go clean water. The only condition for "Merima" was that you have to act, as far as the environment is concerned, just as you do in your country and there is no layoff of workers. Not without firing the workers, they'll receive three times as many workers as they've ever been. Let us do what we know and when this job is done you will see what Serbia will look like. It'll look like a househouse. Please support this law. There's no reason not to support it. Let us agree in Serbia once, because this is the most important thing for us. It was born, rock it, so it's alive and healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26723	You have no right to a replica. There is no mention of an MP's group by name, by name, an MP, or a party. I'm sorry you recognized each other, but you have no right to a replica. The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Zoran Micovic. He is not present, then MP Bratislav Djuric, after the presentation of MP Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in July 2001 DOS voted in favour of the Privatisation Act. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group was against the law, and apparently by proposing amendments and additions to this law, you showed that the law, adopted in July 2001, is not good. I am sorry that the minister, Mr. Vlahovic, is not present in the O.R. because I would like first of all to ask him a question, quote him, and see what he wanted to say in his words: "There is a permanent fear of the privatisation process in our people. This is where people think that this procedure will bring strangers to take the factory, put it on their backs and take it to their country. "Obviously, government experts are trying to mystify their work, because Serbian citizens do not understand the privatisation process adequately. They're probably capable of paying taxes and all that DOS needs, paying all the benefits the minister has, but they're not able to figure out what the privatisation process is. The government obviously behaves inappropriately, casually, since it obviously does not have a good privatisation strategy, nor a good business development plan. The government has had to make a consensus so far on key elements of the strategy, primarily the development of the Serbian economy and to respond why there is no expansion of the development of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, and it is necessary for workers to be jobless thanks to you, as well as persons who are unemployed. In any case, it is necessary for the minister to set relevant criteria for the assessment of the effectiveness of the privatisation process. If we look at the quantity and quality as parameters, we will get to the following: that the government in 2001 took care of the privatisation of 6,000 enterprises, and in almost two years, according to them, they only managed to privatise about 500 companies. I don't get into whether it's a enough number or not, but I'd rather talk about the quality of that privatisation. I'll just give you two examples. The Centre Project was auctioned for a million-euro sum at the first auction, and at the second auction, the same company was bought for only 4,000 euros, as the previous buyer, meanwhile, gave up. Indeed a drastic difference in the amount of that capital. Ciglana "Progress" at the first auction was auctioned for a sum of 371,000 euros, and at the second auction, the company was sold for only 4,100 euros. Since the minister is constantly talking about the subject of privatisation, and since his father is from Leskovec, here I will take an example of the privatisation entity of the factory "Health", where the facts are the following: the total area of all the facilities in the factory "Health" is 55,146 m2; the total area of the building land is 266,112 m2; the value of "Health" is estimated at 45m euros, and then under very vague circumstances sold "Farmaku" for 3.5m euros. It was estimated at 1m euros, but Vlahovic was likely, as the local patriot from Leskovec was emotionally acting, so he increased the amount of 1m euros to 3.5m euros. How's the pharmaceutical company that bought the Health Factory? First of all, it's a limited-responsibility company. Not with full responsibility, but with limited responsibility, and that's all you're told, what kind of company it is. The pharmaceutical production deals only for three years, unlike the factory "Health", which has been operating for 50 years as the best pearl of the wood industry. The level of duty of "Health" is lower than that of "Farmac." The average salary of pharmaceutical workers working in Bulgaria, and 90% of pharmaceutical workers are working in Bulgaria right now, receiving an average profit of $230, while health workers receive an average profit of $250. The last investment in the Zravlje factory was 4m euros. I'll remind you it was definitely sold for 3.5m euros. "Health" is five times bigger than the Zorke Sabbath, which has reached a much better price when privatising. The "Health" factory's warehouses included finished 5m euros worth of products during privatisation. The "Health" share capital, except for this contract, is an important factor in the market value of "Health" and stood at 12.5m euros in nominal value. The Management Board "Health reached a conclusion "18 October 2002, signed by President Valentina Marinkovic, that the offer for privatisation is very inconclusive and unacceptable due to the level of supply and ignorance of the customer's name. The day before that was held a college in the Director General's office, there were all persons present who ran the factory "Health", an analysis was carried out by the company "Farmako" and it was concluded that they were actually investing nothing in "Health" through the investment programme, which would not only "Health" could. The business of the pharmaceutical company is no better and better quality than "Health", and the "Farmaco" is more in charge than "Health". Such findings were agreed and signed by economics and plan director graduate economist Olgica Radonjic, financial sector director Borka Dimic and foreign trade director Milan Djordjevic, as well as marketing sector director Dr. Hranislav Milovanovic. Mr. Petar Stojanović, Director-General of Zdravlja, on 13 January 2003, addressed "Health" workers and found that "Health" is the majority owner of TV Leskovac, that the factory "Health" pays for the heating of the pool i.e. Sports-recreative center "Dubocica" and School "Vozd Karajordje". A logical question arises, given that the anti-recreative centre does not settle its obligations to warm up the pool, whether the owner of the "Farmaka" became also the owner of an institution belonging to the local self-government. At the very end, I would just like to ask you, given that in December 2002 only during a period of 10 days the factory "Health" paid huge bills - "Grafik Galeb Nis" only in December 2002 received a payment from the factory "Healthy," paid Mrs. Bojana Ristić the amount of 1.363.553,60 dinars for lighters and pencils; "Fimas" - Belgrade, a company that makes decorations of glasses and schools, received a payment from the factory "Health", the Centre for Communication, signed by the President of the Municipality of Leskovac, Mrs. Bojana Ristic, the amount of 421,428,00 dinars; it has been filled with these accounts; it is only the last month, huge sums - if such a factory was to be sold for 3.5 million euros, then every honours the Ministry of privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26725	The word has a folk MP, Bratislav Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26726	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us is the proposal to amend and supplement the current Privatisation Act. Minister Vlahovic presented in his opening statement the reasons why it is necessary. The Labour Party of Serbia believes that the application of the law in practice has shown that it needs to be completed, changed in some of its segments, as the law remains only a mere theory until proven in practice and in application. Obviously, practice and application have proved that some parts of the law need to be amended. Whether all those who have proposed or only them, that is the question that I need MPs to discuss to give our court and, of course, finally by our vote to decide. It is true that in a large number of social enterprises management has done everything to slow down or to fully halt the privatisation process, very often supported by representatives of some trade unions, using, above all, non-information, semi-information and fear of workers, and there have been no times they have had the support of frightened and confused workers. But personally, I don't believe that these changes in the law or any changes in the law of this type, in general by the work of this ministry, those people who think that the day they became directors of these companies will be settled, of course in their favour and that they are owners of these companies. I think some other laws and other ministries should solve this problem. The ministry of Minister Mihajlovic and the ministry of Minister Batic should work there. The Labour Party of Serbia, and I believe all trade unions, believe that the change could also have been in Article 3(4), which concerns those assets which, according to us, already owns and owns its own. It's the property that the world of work has created all these years, from 40th and some to today. These are buildings built not by loans, not by budget or by any other source, but by the personal means of the employees of the citizens. These are, first of all, working resorts and other kinds of social standards. In his opening statement, Minister Vlahovic said, it is true that he had consulted with representative trade unions before this amendment to the law entered into the procedure, discussed, had consultations and received opinions, proposals and recommendations from those trade unions. That's true and that's good. It's one of the few ministries that does that. It is also true that the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions met Minister Vlahovic and suggested that it be a change in that direction in Article 3(4). Of course, in this proposed amendment of the law there is no and we will do everything in our power to succesively, as this property comes into the privatisation system, try to resolve it, or in some new proposal to amend and supplement the law, and I believe that there will be needs, unlike Minister Vlahovic, I believe that this is not the last amendment of the law, that probably the time to the end of the process will lead to some more parts to be changed, so that until then we will try to choose in another way that this property, which has its owner, in a 100% amount, will be excluded from that part of privatisation. Some of my colleagues in the criticism of the proposal said that they were against this because first they had to do the law on denationalisation, and then the law on privatisation. Of course, it takes both. The privatisation law already exists, and now changes are proposed. The denationalisation law is not yet on the agenda. If I have to say my position and the attitude of the Labour Party of Serbia, my opinion is that I need the first law on lustration.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26727	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't abuse the pay phone or use the right to a replica you didn't get. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26728	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the President of the Assembly has injured the Rules of Procedure, although I am not worthy of these business necks, but Article 96(2) says - if offensive expressions are related to a parliamentary group or to a political party that members of that group belong to, then the right to replica has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, i.e. the president of the parliamentary group. I believe that there were reasons, obvious reasons for the discussion of the previous speaker, Mr Marinkovic, and I am very sorry that it is about him, that the President of the Assembly gives me the right to reply, as an authorised representative. Since I am not one of those who would abuse the Rules of Procedure, so I will rephrase to Mr Marinkovic, I will ask that the Administrative Board declare itself, based on the stenogram, or tone notes from Mr Marinkovic's presentation. Secondly, I am advocating Article 82(6), i.e. I doubt there is one third of the quorum needed to discuss this privatisation law. Please determine if we have a quorum to work with.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26729	First of all, as regards the member, it's not 96th, it's 97th, points 1 and 2. So, if offensive expressions refer to an MP mentioned by the name, function or parliamentary group, the SPS parliamentary group is also not mentioned. So there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and especially because of the attitude 3 you have failed to state, whether it has the right to reply to the MP or not, the President of the Assembly decides. It's my right and I decide. Of course, the Management Board will make its statement. As for the quorum, we can determine if we have a quorum. I'm asking Members of Parliament to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I'd like to ask Ambassador Dragan the Martian, I see the card in my hand, to insert the card. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. A DSS parliamentary group please insert identification cards to avoid using what the opposition was doing at the beginning. (Dear Martian: Please apologize to me.) It wasn't, I saw you holding her in your hand. I figure we have a quorum, we can keep working. The word has been made by MP Radojko Petric, the SPS parliamentary group. The next reported word is MP Dragan Marsican, the DSS parliamentary group; that is another reason why you should participate in the quorum, ask for someone to listen to you, to speak, then you must participate in the quorum as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26730	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, at the time of the adoption of the now applicable Law on Privatisation in June 2001, the SPS MPs in this assembly insisted on his bad side. They suggested that the selected model would fail. Here, after a year and a half of its application, we now see that the chosen way of privatisation in Serbia has failed. It is obvious that the government has also seen it and is proposing amendments and additions to that law. Unfortunately, instead of proposing serious changes to the concept of privatisation, it proposes only cosmetic changes in favour of employees, and major changes go to the expense of employees. In particular, the main part of the government's proposal to amend concerns preventing employees and trade unions from using social protection programmes for employees. Right, you'll see. The interests of employees are neglected, and without the Agency's consent, the provisions of an individual collective agreement cannot be changed, regardless of how the company is successfully operating. It's only important to the government to protect customers from getting cheap social enterprises and to reduce their obligations to employees as much as possible. In fact, that is the purpose of the proposal referred to in Article 6. Furthermore, the proposed provision in Article 11, where a contract on the sale of enterprises, whether through a public tender or a public bidding, is regulated, is signed only by the buyer of the company and the Privatisation Agency. A provision is cast out providing that the sale contract is deemed to be concluded when signed and the privatisation entity. Apparently in terms of the Agency, the state takes over and acts as an absolute boss over businesses and most of Serbia's economy. Take, for example, the proposal in Article 8 to reduce the number of auction committee members from five to three members. Does that reduce the space to prevent corruption? It can be said that some step has been made which is set out in Article 20 that 50% of the assets received from the sale of enterprises, after deduction of the cost of sales, goes to finance the development of the economy. The step is to set that amount, as so far for this basic purpose could be significantly less singled out. Unfortunately, after this change, the state retains 40% of the funding for budget deficits; it stick to logic- the economy of God what to do. It remains an unfair provision in Article 13 that employees have the right to action without compensation for up to 35 years of employment. What about those who are over 35 years old? I'm going back to the basic question that the government had to propose a different way of privatizing, because this one obviously had a failure. Let us look at the data that between 5,000 and 6,000 enterprises in social property for the past year and a half have been privatized through a tender of only a dozen and auctions of 200 - 300 companies. With this dynamic privatisation will not end not for the next four years, but for a decade and more. The proposed deadline of a year and a half, which is predicted to extend, really means nothing. Well, didn't the government understand the lack of an existing law that money from corporate sales goes to the state, and they're not going to invest in a technologically modern company and start production and employment. Does he expect the new owner to just provide new means of resuscitating and modernising production? So, you set aside money to buy a company, and now you need a second part of the money to secure a modern production. The state would have to give up this kind of privatisation model through the agency, because it's fully centralized. Decisions are made in a very narrow circle of people. The initiative of the companies themselves that are privatizing has been completely excluded. It doesn't seem worth reminding the government that the state as a super-director didn't pass the exam anywhere. Doesn't the government see that it hasn't chosen a good way to privatise and that there is no great demand for our businesses, either abroad or in the country. The best companies that have good technology are sold, the safe market, a good professional frame, doing well. In fact, their sale is unnecessary. What to do now with the other companies. Will she be sold for nothing? Does anyone really want to stop production completely, to keep hundreds of thousands of people out of work, to just formally complete the privatisation process? Zahrasing the unreasonable downsizing of company prices and enabling the purchase by suspected, newly-compromised businessmen, do not threaten to challenge the legitimate social rebellion of unemployed workers. There's a galloping social decomposition of the population. On one side, there is a huge number of poor people, and on the other, a number of rich people were created. Why not set a minimum price below which the sale cannot be made? Unless the price is reached to give a discount to companies can buy employees, with a reasonable repayment period of several years. It is certainly better for business owners to be the ones who are already employed in it. It's better to strengthen domestic businesses than to sell them to strangers. The SPS is for privatisation and the fastest possible action to prevent the robbery of social property. It is appropriate to ask the government to publish data on how much money has been paid to foreign consulting houses so far and what houses they are. Mr. Minister, it's no secret that it's a lot of money. Finally, I reiterate the need to approach a new law based on fairer and more efficient principles. The cities of Bor and Majdanpek, where they almost strike thousands of workers who have lost their jobs, are not the only ones. Such cities in Serbia have many, as we can see, strikes every day, and they block every day and so on. This despair and hopelessness must be dealt with urgently. This can only be achieved by starting production and employment. The current way of privatisation and economic policy-making will certainly not achieve improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26731	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Marsicani.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26732	Dear viewers, respected citizens of Serbia, one of the objections to today's act could be -- the government, instead of proposing to pass new system laws that would replace the existing ones, to bring for the needs of the earlier social and economic system, proposes amendments to the law here adopted two years ago, since the then legal and legitimate National Assembly. This objection is partly true, only in the first part, because indeed the Government of the Republic of Serbia has completely failed in its preparatory-legislative function, but certainly and justified in the second part. Of course, it is necessary to amend those laws that have proved to be ineffective and deficient in practice, which is the case with the Privatisation Act. This is also the answer to the surprise that it is possible two years ago to vote for a model of the Privatisation Act, and now to change your mind; of course, when you realize that the consequences of the law are catastrophic. No, I guess we'll just keep going, destroying everything. The change of the Privatisation Act is necessary and urgent. This opportunity should draw attention to one fact - the last few months have been distracted by a word that has been constantly, for some year and a half, repeated: reform. Did you notice that those words are somehow gone, not even on television? Where did the word go wrong - reforms, reform government, reform parties, reformists, etc.? Simply, that word has gone into the past, it is not even on Pink anymore. Namely, nothing has seemed to establish the goal, content, dynamics of reforms, as a set of activities on the fundamental system change of institutions, political and economic systems, in the only possible, valid way, with a broad political agreement, with dialogue with representative trade unions, and not those sitting in the government as ministers, with employers. Of course, when you don't, even in the practice of reform, there's nothing left. Well, in the practice of reform, there's nothing left. Finally, the word itself was lost from use. This is natural and fully expected when it comes to, we have long said, that the Republic government has never had a programme, the concept of reform, that, in its practice, based on the political philosophy of the Prime Minister, the Republic Government is actually a fundamental systemic obstacle to implementing reforms, changes in Serbia, that it is deeply, irreparably anti-reformal. And yet, you'll say -- there was a DOS election program. Yes, there was also a governmental programme at the level of general places and guidelines, but it was also actually rejected on the first day of government work. The government has thus reduced the necessary and comprehensive reforms to the reform of the economy, while economic reforms have reduced it to privatisation. Its president, as the best economist among philosophers, with the knowledge of the economy sufficient for non-transparent youth trade in white technology and colorful laundry, has been objected to neglecting (this is the objections of certain experts) of the institution, their importance and importance to the reform of institutions. I'd say that remark isn't true. He did not ignore the importance of institutions, but systematically, precisely knowing the importance of institutions, systematically destroyed, establishing his own model of the authoritarian regime. That is why there is no new constitution, no system law, no legal assembly, no judicial reform, no police reform, and as an integral part of reforms in Serbia and privatisation, which is here today on the agenda. So there is nothing of these reforms that is most important for reforms and that creates an ambience that a successful privatisation process can be carried out and that is why it is the real and very essence of the debate that we need to have here today. On the other hand, not that there are no these systemic changes, but neither does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have any economic policy, an economic programme. Clearly, when you do not have economic policy, there is no development strategy, and in such circumstances we are talking about privatisation today. Here, Minister Vlahovic, prone to high patriotism, gave up rich earnings and accepted that he sacrificed himself for the state and that this responsible job, a little paid, is doing hard work, so the privatisation process. But by sacrificing themselves for the country, and that is for every praise, the minister and government in general have forgotten even the name of the ministry. Your ministry, if I'm not mistaken, is called the Department of Business and Privatisation. It would be good to once get a report from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is required by the acts to deliver to the National Assembly, and for these two years it has never delivered, so let's see what was done in this second part, and for that you receive a salary, which concerns the economy. What's the state of the economy? What about these small and medium-sized enterprises? We have heard about this from Slobodan Milosevic, today we hear about it daily and from Djindjic's government (if you don't believe me, look at this OECD report, you have read it yourself) that the situation is difficult and will not be improved in the further period, but rather worsened. The number of small and medium-sized enterprises has been reduced, and without them, there is no way of reviving the economy, to increase production in transition countries. So reforms and all that need to be on just one segment, and that's privatisation. Undermining the privatisation reforms, the government has defined itself, this is the law and model that we supported two years ago, for a privatisation model that is a major sale. Only a small fraction is shared through employee actions. The first question is - what results have been achieved for these minors for two years, because without an exact answer to that question you simply cannot offer an answer to whether the law should be changed at all; and if necessary, what and how. We're proposing an immediate amendment to the Privatisation Act. Our answer is that the results achieved for these underage two years are catastrophic. The selected company sales model proved to be a failure, the consequences are more than serious, and insisting on this model is causing inconceivable and irreparable damage. Therefore, perseverance on that model is irresponsible. What I'm saying now is we said eight months ago, proposing an amendment to the law, but based on an amended and newly adopted model of privatisation. Enough time has passed, enough of the affair is open, to draw conclusions on transparency, as well as the facts, which OECD also reports, that the selected model is the most subjective to bribery and corruption. Under the current circumstances, which, as soon as possible, is a high offer, since everything is for sale, and is extremely low demand, institutional crisis and the absence of the rule of law, the existing law does not need to be cosmetically and technically improved, but it is necessary to urgently adopt a new privatisation model and a new privatisation law based on it. The new model, which we proposed eight months ago, should be a combination of the models established by the 1997 law and the existing law, so a combination of sales and free distributions. The law would have to respect the fact that in conditions of very low demand, the model of sales in practice grows into a model of sale and overlooks the division of shares to employees. Free division of shares in companies privatised in this way, in addition to enterprises of the importance set out for a special privatisation programme through sales, would replace this present-day, practical free allocation to privileged individuals, to which privatisation is in practice today. The privatisation process would be carried out quickly, easily and completely transparently. On the market, action would of course be freely bought. The need to adopt a new model stems from the fact that the current model in the current conditions has proved to be harmful, with the following consequences: privatisation is complicated and slow; prices at which companies are sold are so low that we are actually talking about the sale, free allocation to privileged customers; privatisation is used for money laundering; there is a concentration of customers, they are created instead of state private monopolies; privatisation is non-transparent and I repeat - see OECD report - the model is most subject to bribery and corruption. There was almost no tender sale that didn't turn into an affair. With the president of a DOS party who supports the government, we agree on one single issue, and he said, Mr. Minister, that you will carry the bucagies to prison for selling Cementara to Beocino. It's one of the presidents of the DOS coalition. And, in addition to all this, the most important thing is the following -- reforms are not being implemented for the sake of reform, and neither is privatisation being carried out for the sake of it. The aim of the reform, therefore, of privatisation should also be to increase economic efficiency, i.e. economic growth. The current model, which has been confirmed for these minors for two years, in conditions of low demand, is completely unsuitable for achieving this goal. The fact that we are affected by the transition recession, which is an insufficient growth in production, should be warned. Finally, why did the government define itself to persist in a model that in practice proved harmful. Because, in fact, none of what I tried to talk about here is of no interest to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Because she gave up everything, irresponsible and incompetent, except for what she seems to be able to keep her in power. Because not only did the reforms reduce to privatisation, but the privatisation itself, as a process, raised its hands. It does not treat and organise it as a process of full ownership transformation, and as a function of economic growth, economic efficiency, it is in its attention that two interests are exclusive: one is filling budget gaps and the other is filling private pockets. The government is only interested in concealing the consequences of its own incompetence, economic crisis, social crisis, a presumption of the budget crisis, how to maintain power by selling something valuable, clogging up financial injections, all that has been opened up as a result of its incompetence. So the government's only interested in selling a few more valuable companies -- tobacco industry, Southpetrol, Telekom, I don't know what happened to the brewers -- to keep another year or two of their over-inflated budgets, take their share, and, as the people say, get out. The minister spoke really brilliantly here yesterday. A school case of manipulation. A masteral action of detail for the sake of concealing a global failure. I'd like to make a few notes about his exposure. The government is very upset to hear that the current privatisation is spoken of as a sale, so they say - it's a market. It's offered, so who's got the pay on the market to determine. It's so much, it can't be sold more expensive. Of course, it's about naked manipulation. The environment, the demand determines the price, and the government is in exactly the part for which the minister is also obliged, and that is the Ministry of Business, has done everything to devalue the economy, to create such an environment that does not bring foreign investors into the country, to deliberately, knowingly bring down the value of the company and create an ambience that the price on the market is then of course the same as it is - none; therefore, free division of pre-arranged customers. In the end, I'm going to say something more about this transparency and the pre-arranged arrangements. The minister says some object that the privatisation process is running slowly, the other says it's too fast. In his opinion, he's going exactly right. He said, in my opinion, the lie. Otherwise, he would be obliged to explain, if it runs precisely in the planned dynamics, why is it extended by this proposal to amend and supplement the deadline for the completion of the privatisation process. Something's wrong with that, or maybe I can't figure things out. (Glass: Exactly. That's right. The fact, the number of companies sold last year is less than planned and on television announced. But not to play with numbers, because they don't always express the essence of things, it's more important this -- why is the deadline extended if everything goes exactly as planned. A classic example of manipulation is the amount of sales revenue, which is then said to be twice as high than planned and much higher than the revenues achieved in Hungary. That's what we've been hearing for two days. The comparison with Hungary is completely inappropriate and should now be spent another 15 minutes to talk about it, because things are incomparable. But, as far as double the amount planned, it is not proof of the success of privatisation, but of the failure of planning, with the fact that, in the case of budget planning for 2002, it has introduced an unreally low amount into the law, lower at the time of the adoption of the law than the known amount for already agreed sales. That was one of Djelic's little tricks. Again, we can discuss the reasons for 15 minutes, but the fact is that at the moment the Budget Law established the revenue from privatisation was known to be more than double the amount. In addition, no matter how high, the amount does not say anything, and that is the next manipulation of the success of privatisation, because to speak then it could be said that privatisation at the time of Milosevic is more successful than at the time of Djindjic, if we take the data from the year it was sold to Telekom, so we say - look what it was, and look what Djindjic and Vlahovic have done now. So, don't manipulate things. Privatisation in Serbia is at an impasse, it has practically stopped, you are only interested in selling the tobacco industry and a few other things; we have received gifts and will ultimately thank your strategic partners. So that's what this is about. The money will be entered into the budget from privatisation and once spent on public expenditures, at the country's rally. The economy will remain dead. What will be sold next year - nothing, for there will be nothing. That's Djindjic's government's policy "after me flood". Yesterday it was announced, and today it is mentioned here that production was reduced by 21% in January, earnings decreased by 18%. You'll say - it wasn't working, so it didn't work out. Well, you know, even when you don't work, you get a fee on average. When it doesn't work then production is smaller, but they would have had something to produce, but there's no environment, and that's what the government is responsible for, to work, to produce, and to earn more. Therefore, the number of working days cannot be reflected in earnings, because they are paid according to the averages of earlier months; enough, people, more with these manipulations! As far as these profits are concerned, please inform the Prime Minister of this information whose shoes, seen in the picture below, are worth five average pensions. Finally, one announcement to viewers: all MPs were given a nice gift from British American Tobacco yesterday; not everyone, then by choice, then I was probably chosen not to say what I'm saying today. It's a nice gift. I would remind only the Serbian government that, in its negotiations, this company was represented by expert Stanko Subotic Cane. And here's the prize question, and the answer is easier given than on the New Year's BK quiz -- who's going to be the best bidder in the still unscheduled tender for the tobacco industry Vranje? And for Nis, we'll see if it's Philip Morris or if we have any more problems. That's why, gentlemen, we're talking less and less about reforms and more about crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26733	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, you have the advantage. People's MP, make a deal; so, Minister. Publicity and truth do, Mr. Martian told the lie, the MPs didn't get presents, and if he got a gift, what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that the previous speaker is not still in the O.R. since he has made a series of accusations and untrues during the privatisation process and it is his turn to listen at least to the answer, if nothing else. First of all, to take this opportunity and say that there are no privileged ones in the privatisation of the flag, no exclusive contract with the firm "Nukarko" is available, everyone who wants to compete and participate in the privatisation of the flag is welcome. I'd like to have an extremely strong competition for privatising the flag, but unfortunately reality says it's not. What we just heard, and it concerns the flow of privatisation in Serbia and the suggestion of another model, which I haven't had a chance to see so far, is a classic replacement of thesis. So, it was said that the selected privatisation model in Serbia was a failure, that it was a company sale, that privatisation was slow, that prices were low, that dirty money was involved in privatisation, that bribery and corruption were in action and that there were a number of affairs. Of course, behind these general findings there is absolutely no example: and where is this where the affair occurred; and where is this where someone tried to take the bribe; and where is this where the company was sold in advance and by agreement of the minister, agency or anyone else with a potential buyer; where is this non-transparent and non-public privatisation? Please, gentlemen, you all have the opportunity to watch direct auction transfers, all of you can make remarks only on the basis of these transfers whether privatisation is going publicly and transparently, and not to mention that this assembly regularly and monthly receives reports of each individual privatisation, along with all signed contracts with those customers. Therefore, it is not good to say something that is not true, and to do so as an alternative to offer a model that just leads to the creation of these problems on which the ongoing privatisation model is criticised. If I understand correctly, a few review sales, there's money laundering, we don't take care of the workers, then the investments, we centralize the entire privatisation model. Let's compare, to the public, the relationship of the voucher or free division that is imposed, and on the other hand the current model of privatisation and drag them through the prism of these criticisms. The sale; whether it's a sale when it's sold out in a public game or maybe the sale is a free share of actions that will then be concentrated off the market; in Russia it was for a bottle of vodka, and here it would be for a bottle of brandy. Secondly, money laundering; whether a money laundering process can happen in transparent auctions and tenders, where potential customers are previously known, name and last name; or whether money laundering is rather achieved by buying previously free shares. It's a model that's suggested. Where did the money laundering most monitor privatisation? Where the voucher privatisation was, and you have a series of examples. You have an example of Russia, you have an example of other countries where the privatisation process is done by free-distributing actions, and beyond that, just because money came in an illegal way buying those actions, I repeat for a bottle of vodka. After all, do we have federal law to prevent money laundering and the federal commission? Of course we do. I can tell you it works very well. This commission, before each tender, before each auction, receives all the information about all potential customers, about who they are, whether they own the company, from which they account, how they have been paid, and what the business has been based on so far, and then these data are forwarded to the commission. Whether or not some previously involved in the privatisation may be involved in the so-called ‘privileged’. economic crime, which is not part of the money laundering work; perhaps, I don't know, the courts need to tell us about it, by their more efficient work and sanctioning those against whom there are a bunch of criminal charges filed, and we are witnessing that they are not being dealt with. I expect, of course, that this effective court procedure will identify what they stole from social enterprises in the previous period, and now they eventually appear as buyers, so they will be sanctioned right through property, which they can possibly acquire through the privatisation process. So money laundering is a sign of a voucher privatisation, not a sale, because at a voucher privatisation, you don't know who concentrates your actions, and how you know who the potential buyers are. Then, social programs; is there greater concern about social programmes in the model of sales or in the model of voucher privatisation? One data: the weight of the social programmes of privatised enterprises in the past year is expressed by a figure of 110m euros. So 110m euros is the value of the assumed social programmes with first-class banking guarantees. The total value of the investment is 330m euros. This relationship is one to three; so one to three -- social programs: investments. Who takes care of social programs in voucher privatisation? Share the shares, they are sold cheaply, dirty money participates, and in the end who comes to the concentration, there is absolutely no obligation regarding social programmes. Is the social fairer privatisation of sales, when taking care of workers what they should do tomorrow in these companies; or the voucher privatisation, where someone else without any control performs the concentration of actions, becomes a majority owner, without any social obligations, without any obligation to invest. Slow or fast; even if you were to decide today on the model of voucher privatisation it would take you at least a year and a half to prepare the system, so that in the first part those actions could be divided into all adult residents, and then it would take you at least 15 years to get over the troubles that the voucher privatisation would make because of the later wrong capital concentration. My lords, we have 1,000 companies that started the privatisation process in the previous period, a dominant free distribution or sale with a discount. Of those 1,000, only 55 completed the process. You know how much the action behind that has concentrated? All two companies. Ask the directors of these companies, ask the owners, how long it takes for these companies to get to the concentration in a way that it can run painlessly for the future of the company. What we've done; we've banned out-of-berzant stock sales so that the mechanics don't show up, because it's a real danger to these previous privatisation processes. So much for the speed of voucher privatisation, justice, social acceptance. And when someone says we're centralizing the privatisation process, that's where you see the role of a country. Governments and transition countries differ in this way in their successful or unsuccessful transition policy. The state can be responsible, and it can act irresponsiblely and seem to say, we'll open the market and let it regulate everything, we'll divide the actions. It's also very acceptable, because it's easy to sort out the story -- here you go, let's share the action because you workers have earned it, and we don't care what happens after that with you. Then what's going on? Then some investment funds concentrate actions and push companies into bankruptcy, and the irresponsible state says -- we have nothing to do with it, it's private property, it's private firms, it's private investment funds. What the responsible state says - let's keep as many companies as they deserve in the future to have places on the market and let's find them as best strategic partners as possible, private investors; that after privatisation we follow closely what happens, so if someone doesn't meet the assumed obligations to punish him, that buyer, that we cancel out privatisation; so if everything goes right, and it runs, believe me, then we certainly have the largest part of the economic structure transformed into the most painless way into the new market economy system. So it's not about centralisation, nor does the state want to manage these companies, but rather about responsible implementation of the transition policy in the privatisation part, because we're not going to say - let the flag and the Bor solve their own problem. Can the flag solve its own problem without State interference? Can Bor solve his own problem without state participation, without subsidisation, without funding, restructuring, financial, business, without the government's involvement in the search for a strategic partner? He can't. It's a responsibility, it's not centralised.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26735	I'm setting a break until 3:00, and the afternoon session will continue to be discussed in the order of the application for a word. The word has a People's MP Milos Todorovic, followed by MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue the session to determine if we have a quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word has been made by MP Zeljo Huric, a proposal by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26737	The Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens, in about a minute will be exactly 15.48 hours, and that is the time exactly 10 years ago at Strpce station, a fast train from Belgrade was stopped, which at the time one crime was committed when, as you know, 20 passengers were kidnapped just because they had names in their ID cards that didn't match those criminals. So, the innocent people who died because of their names have gone away forever without even knowing who it is and why it did it. By listening to the mother of one of the kidnapped, I can't really bear it if she knew what she said, she wouldn't name her child. It would be his name the way she's been calling him all her life, because she almost forgot his name. Well, because of that name, he's gone with her. He says no more of his look, his smile, his hair in her hand. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP, I propose that this assembly make an appeal to the investigative and judicial bodies of the Republic of Serbia and the community of Serbia-Montenegro to once definitely place this case as their case and that this case is treated as it deserves, not to be, as it was recently in Montenegro, a simple farce. Given this current government, I'm sure it will be. I thank you if I have anything to thank you for.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26738	Just to inform the representatives of the National Assembly today received representatives of the families of the missing from Strpec and that we will consider this proposal by MP Zeljo Huric. We continue the principle debate on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act according to the application for word. The word has been made by MP Milos Todorovic, the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26739	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, one in a series of draft amendments and additions to the law, a very important law, systemically, but at the same time most citizens, employees of Serbia, are completely foreign and incomprehensible. Everyone in this room, ladies and gentlemen, understands the importance of the privatisation process. In any case, we as the SS are giving priority to private capital compared to social capital. However, we and all people in Serbia are plagued by the way in which the proposed amendments and additions to this law are implemented, as well as by the law itself. He must be concerned about every benevolent man in this congregation. This problem is present at this point in every segment of our society, and I think there's going to be a lot of talk about it and work on it. The SSJ Parliament Club has also proposed appropriate amendments that are very meaningful and necessary, and in front of you as a majority coalition in this assembly, it is a really important and big problem for this law to be passed. As they vote, we'll see in the end. However, is this law acceptable to most residents and employees in our country? In the past two years, we've had very painful experiences about this law. The issues of social protection and the social security of employees have been dealt with very poorly. The issue of technical and technological surplus employees is being raised, and in everyday practice, we can really see in companies that this problem is very pronounced and great. When it comes to the amendment and addition of the Law and the reasonings of Article 6(2), it literally reads: "The norm stated aims to prevent the unwarrantedly high demands of the unemployed in terms of the social programme, resulting in the intractivities of the company for the potential buyer". Such reasoning promotes concern in humans. I say at the very least, because their social security is severely shaken. We need to understand that the workers of privatisation companies are really very concerned and that this is a big problem for them. Does the amendment and supplemental of the Privatisation Act have options and ways to solve this growing problem effectively? We'll see about that. However, the SSJ parliamentary club is very abstentioned in the assessment of the results achieved and, of course, very justified. You can see that from practice and you can see a lot of problems about this law everywhere in the field. Article 20 amends Article 61, which determines in point 4 that 5% of the funding and development of local self-government infrastructure is allocated. As in the subsidy law, the government has a sustainable attitude towards local self-government, and it is quite logical that this rate is greater than 5%. We have, by our amendment to the amendment to the amendment of the Law, made that percent increase by 10%, which is 15%, which we think is quite realistic for local self-government units. At the end of this brief presentation, since many people have critically referred to this law, privatisation and is not controversial, it is necessary, but different, more efficient, more acceptable and safer for all employees, and those who were and those who would be, let's hope that they will be more employees, etc. However, I would refer to Mr. Minister's exposure; he said that now in the companies that are privatised and where private capital entered, there are no earlier phenomena, so he mentioned a drink, that it is no longer coming out. Well, these companies that were the subject of the minister's exposure and had worked well before and were productive. There has been a slight increase in employees' salaries in these companies. I don't think giving such an example was appropriate. If that's the model that's supposed to be in this country, then I'm sure it should be applied in this House's work, because every day we come into a situation where we literally lose two hours of time and we can't finish the job, we have to extend our working hours or stay in a day where we don't work. Today, we've lost ourselves here for exactly an hour and 45 minutes, and I hope it won't be a practice in this high house anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26740	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić. You as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to be clear, the SRS is in favour of privatisation, but we place it in surgical interventions under anesthesia. This way, under total anaesthesia, lively, with the painful wounds that you cause to Serbian citizens, both employees and unemployed, as well as this, wandering and changing the legal provisions concerning the most important relationships in society, we will not get far. How do we get far, when the government expects support for this bill from the MPs of the DOS, and from you 176 on my fingers, I could count those who ever and ever built anything in their lives. Here, I invite all those who have ever worked in any company to raise their hand. If more than ten hands are raised, I'll cut the discussion to three minutes. I'll stay behind the pay phone long enough. Here, yes, Toma Panajotovic, works at the museum and counts it as his business. Let's talk seriously, let it go, let me not touch you on the subject. I worked in the mine, and I'm proud of it. (Milka Marinkovic: You can see it. So, let's see what you're changing in the Privatization Act, and what are we against? Explaining the change in Article 5, the legislator said the need to specify the operational independence of the Privatisation Agency, and when you read the member of the law, you learn that the Agency is now authorised to sell capital, i.e. property. Well, then, Mr. Minister, and I don't know that you're not in the business of determining what's in line with the legal order, but your associates should have informed you that it's necessary to change the Agency Act. Your agency isn't under the law, it's authorized to sell. He can't get power under the Privatisation Act, when in his original law there's no change in the provision of what she's doing, and everything she does has nothing to do with the sale. Because originally, and you were right, you planned that someone who sold it might be called the owner. This will be a unique example of selling someone who doesn't own it. In Article 2, there is a provision that the buyer of capital cannot be a domestic legal person who operates on the majority social capital. Now I ask you, how come you have the constitutional right to place such legal persons in an unequal position with other forms of property, if that legal person already has an obligation to privatise himself. So he can't operate by the law until he's privatized. You got it. He can buy. Why not expand the social enterprise until the moment of privatisation. You're forbidding him to change agreements regarding the level of profit. You've probably burned yourself on some of the enterprises that are privatized, and I accept that. But to ban him from getting any stronger, I don't understand. It's only a concession to whoever buys the company. What if we have a good company with social capital, which gives us a chance to buy another company, so when it goes to privatisation to be even stronger and to be an even better partner? We gave you an amendment to Article 2, because practice has shown that the hole that exists in the privatisation law is carried out beyond our wishes. Maybe that's your wish. Serbian citizens are worried. We provide for an amendment that that buyer of capital or property, domestic or foreign, legal or natural person, if he gives up the purchase done in a tender or public auction or fails to fulfil the obligations of the sales contract, then he can never again appear in a tender or auction. We're witnessing that someone bids to a bassolic figure, disintegrates all other buyers and shows up for 15 days in the form of swastikas, aunts, brothers, buys at a very low price the same property, and only the part he invested when he bid. Next, why Article 3? Did you explain to us, Mr. Minister, when we had this bill before us two years ago, that four years ago was a deadline for privatisation. We've even had bonuses for businesses that do it faster. Now all of a sudden, from this day forward, you're four more years away. It's like when we delayed the census, so it could be two more years, two more years, so when we delayed the traffic from the Payment Services to the banks, we delayed it for a year, and another year. As long as we're going to be a country in transition and that for all of this trouble that DOS has brought us, you always have an excuse -- we're in transition, no privatisation is completed. Well, when people know there's gonna be changes like this and there's an addition to the law, you're never going to finish privatization. In that case, you extend the deadlines until all your friends participate in all tenders and auctions that are of interest to them and until everything that is interesting to them goes to them, and then it will be - within six months all other privatisations must be completed. Knowing you, most of you, I'm convinced that's the only reason. And of course, when you change Article 1 and you say that the agency sells, then you have to change Article 41, so now the agency and the buyer are going to sign a sales contract. You've even dared to say at state capital: "In privatisation entities with majority government capital employees get the right to action without compensation. "Are we going to privatise the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are we going to privatise the buildings of the MUP, are we going to privatise state property based on the Law of Privatisation, and that the employees who are present at that time are gaining the right to action without compensation? It is, to dissipate the current militias, bring in new ones, these which you now issue to them with IDs and uniforms, buy the saucers, and give them action without compensation. Article 13, that's the state capital, I didn't know it was going in that order. Why did you remove all the benefits provided for by the basic law for employees, who are quick to privatise, why you are not now in the interest of stimulating the rapid privatisation of companies, so that, depending on the deadline in which privatisation is carried out, workers will be entitled to different amounts for years of internships in the privatisation entity. It used to be 200 euros, 150 euros, 75 euros, and now you've reduced everything to 200 euros; why is it not in your best interest for someone to finish privatisation in a year, but within this four-year period; you don't care if it's in the first year, in the second, third or fourth. Or do you want to answer if that solution wasn't good. One of those two solutions was not good: the one where workers are differently stimulated, depending on when privatisation is made (I want another term to use) or not doing so now when they will be equally stimulated, regardless of whether or not the privatisation entity will remain in social property for another three years. The explanation was an extremely ghastly one, and it could not serve as a basis for discussion of this law. In Article 20 paragraph 1(2), there is such a vague second position that if you do not accept our amendment, you will not know what percentage of the funds are allocated to finance restructuring and development of the economy in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. If point 2) applies, and if you say that 50% of the funds are allocated to finance restructuring and development of the economy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, I have dared to understand that your wish, if the entity is located in the territory of Vojvodina, that those 50% will be divided, but by reading this provision, it turns out that all 50% of it crosses the Vojvodina. Well, it can't be that way. Concessions are the palezation that some people wanted, so the government didn't give them. Because the percentage is not the same, you say, if the subject is on the territory of the Vojvodina or on this part that is not the Vojvodina. Let me understand that, but it turns out, by reading the second point of point 2), that 50% of the funds will go to the Vojvodina, which is the total funds going to the state. So, there's nothing left for Serbia, everything goes to Vojvodina. Well, we don't want to vote for it, I'm sorry, don't be angry. Whoever else accepts it in this assembly should sign the Duke's constitution immediately, which is currently being written, at the same time. What do we get by this law, Mr. Minister, and what do we get by implementing the current Privatisation Act? We listened yesterday, were forced, forced to listen to Mr. Minister's half hour's wake, off the subject of the agenda. Mrs. President of the Assembly has not dared warn him at all, and it is clear that the speaker can only speak about the subject on the agenda. The minister spoke to us about restitution. Is she the subject of this bill - not. About how you're going to damage the former owner, you've regulated it by basic law, and you haven't changed it by the bill, and we've been forced half an hour to listen to theoretical considerations about whether or not we should. I dare say economic considerations, and this is about purely legal issues. How are you going to explain that after 50 years you're returning property to someone and how you're going to explain to me that you're going to return the property to the Germans in Vojvodina, and the agga and the escapes in Serbia, I'm really interested in how you're going to do it, in this kind of poverty? How many budgets do you need to do this, if they are not satisfied with the percentage of the privatisation that remains exclusively for it, and I was against it when you passed the Privatisation Act. Now 100m euros and some million euros have accumulated, share it with the poor, share for children's allowances, for various social benefits. There's no company owner who hasn't been in his hands for 50 years, so that's what you do in the ministry, steam machines have been thrown out of these companies since then, if anything else. And not that - there is justice to having losses, so we will load the heirs of the former owners of the loss on their backs. Wow, well, they wouldn't be looking for that property if Branko Krsmanovic had losses that, like, meant a lot to him. Think about it, Minister, even though you have completely neglected one branch of your work. I remind you that you are the Minister of Business and Privatisation, you have fully devoted yourself to privatisation and to privileged customers. It's obvious, about that and this newspaper that doesn't dare speak against you, it's talking. You're insinuating that various commissions prove you're doing everything legally. It's obvious that you're not acting by the law, and it's obvious, Mr. Minister, that many have gotten involved in these affairs. Sugars are noose around the neck, I mean the government of the Republic of Serbia, not any minister individually. You know very well what it means to assess sugarcane two or three years ago, when prices were limited, when individuals from the political summit forced sugar directors to share sugar for free in the campaign; or to evaluate sugarcane now, when it has a market price and when they all do business positively. And when someone buys a sugar cane for several euros, and when they have an obligation to invest maybe 5m euros, and there's a supply of 20m or 30m euros in it, it raises a question of who steals it from and who steals it from. As far as our position on privatisation is concerned, I am really sorry that already three legal projects on privatising social property, with all the wish of Serbian radicals to vote for a decent, quick, efficient privatisation, cannot possibly get our vote in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And now you're complaining about individual directors. It's always been a problem with social company directors. They were a source of power. There was money in their hands. They decided who would work, who wouldn't. Some laws gave them unlimited right to arms, now they didn't have to enter the privatisation process. And you're saying now that they've damaged the subject of privatization with huge wages in the last few months or in some other way. They're leaving the firm for almost free, and then they find out they have a house on Dedinj, that they have a place on Prince Michael's street, and that was actually the reason for some subject to privatize. They threaten to participate in tenders and auctions by telephone, openly, people whose names are mentioned in newspapers, which belong to the mafia, and who tie them to the Serbian government. That's why only privileged, only friends participate, and that's why only those who will give you very little money are involved. I read in foreign press that the German industry minister or some province of Germany is complaining and is preparing to file a criminal report against Zoran Djindjic because he deceived him about the privatisation of Sartide. Whoever writes against Djindjic must first against Vlahovic, because all Djindjic's moves are determined by Aleksandar Vlahovic. Minister, you had the opportunity to remain remembered as the minister who launched the Serbian economy, freed us from the ballast social property. That opportunity, with a lot of words that you use when you expose yourself to us here and explain your mistakes, you haven't taken advantage of it. The Institute is one thing, and the life and leadership of the Serbian state is something else entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26742	The Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26743	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must make a very brief comment for the public. First of all, several times it's been asked First of all, why the deadline of a year and a half is being extended and whether we really want to extend the deadline for the realization of the privatisation of social property. [[Applause - thanks for this applause]] Social property will be privatised by mid-2005, as foreseen by law. We find that, as a result of the restructuring of major state systems, Elektroprivreda, Railway-Transport company and similar other state systems, there will be subsidiary enterprises, special legal continents - because these systems first have to be restructured, then behind the construction of a regulatory framework, and only then privatisation - which will not be covered by privatisation by mid-2005. The Agency and the Ministry do not want to manage these companies before they are privatised and we believe that there should be complete freedom, full autonomy in making business decisions of the company and that, among other things, it is rational to leave this deadline; therefore, the deadline for gentlemen is not primarily intended for existing social enterprises, since it will be privatised through privatisation or through bankruptcy procedure; and I note once again, in April of this month, it will be a very important legal document, which is the law on bankruptcy that should directly affect the restructuring of the Serbian economy. There are no privileged customers in Serbian privatisation. That there are no privileged customers in auction privatisation, you can see for yourself, because you can go uninterrupted, as well as the general public to attend public auctions. So they're not hidden auctions. It happens in front of the eyes of the cameras, and there's just, everyone who has the elemental knowledge of the economy knows that privileged customers don't have it. In the tender privatisation of our privileged customers, too. Gentlemen, all the tenders so far have been published under a) in the domestic daily press, at the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation site of the Republic of Serbia, the Privatisation Agency and also in the foreign press, where such transactions are published, newspapers read by business circles. It is the same, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, case with the privatisation of sugarcane. No one ever wanted to apply for the sugar privatisation process to prevent a buyer from going out with his offer. The time limit for collecting offers was for everyone. The deadline for purchase of the tender documentation was publicly published and was valid for all. The fact that a customer appeared, not only in the sugar industry (but, sir, Senta was sold in a bankruptcy procedure and has nothing to do with privatisation), is the result of the business performance of these companies and it is simply a fact of fact. What's that, as you say, of the national treasure, of that enormous social value left to privatize? The assessment of the value and mentioning of a value assessment institute is, to my great regret, still a lack of understanding of the concept of privatisation. We have defined ourselves as market value, that customers compete with each other, that they deliver bids to each other and that the best wins. As for the three sugarcanes that have left here, it's said, for three euros, so it's simply not true. You know very well that for each one of these sugars a commitment has been made to fund a social programme of between two and two and a half million euros per sugar bar. Then a commitment to investment, not a promise as someone said this morning, Lafarj gave two or three years ago money for capitalisation in cement but without any guarantee, but a guarantee to invest between five and seven million in technical and technological improvements and took over debts that are between two and 13m euros individually in these sugars. All those sugars have worked with their losses so far. All three sugars, if you don't believe me, go over there and ask the employees, ask management, they have at least 50% extra employees. With this programme, these workers, who would go to the streets because of their non-profit business, have stayed to work and are protected for the next five years. Now, that's the price. It's also paid. We said mix three criteria - a social programme, an investment programme and a price, and that is precisely this order - investment, a social programme, and only then the price, but all public and transparent. Therefore, there are no privileged customers and one more -- there is no after privatisation of the ex post property. You know what he's got? The discovery of subsequent debts, which we couldn't recognize in the books, because they weren't in the books, but those contracts were in the drawers of directors and management of social enterprises, and then they came out. It's best known when a company is privatized, then everyone known and unknown will trust a new owner to be compensated for everything they've asked from the past from social enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26744	I thank the minister. The second announcement, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26745	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, allow me to present several principles within the next 10 minutes, and above all, the principled views of the SPS parliamentary group on the proposal to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act. First of all, let me look back on yesterday's sentences and today's presentation of the minister's progress in the privatisation of the past year and a half. There is a lot of talk about it in the means of information, through television, here on these occasions when a minister or someone from the government speaks to us from the assembly speaker, and it is said that the results of privatisation are extremely good, even if they are above what the government planned for 2002 and especially the beginning of privatisation in 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26746	I'd like to hear from my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26747	Mr. Minister said that on the basis of privatisation we achieved over 300m euros in the republican budget, it is probably not a controversial fact. He also said that on the basis of investments from customers of privatised companies, we achieved around 330m euros in the past 2002. It would be very interesting if the minister told us in the next report how many of these investments, to which the company's buyers committed themselves, were realised during 2002? I have a real doubt that we can't talk about an amount that's probably about one fifth of the assets that investors, i.e. company buyers, have committed to the privatisation process, because if the entire amount of 330 million were realised, since we're all willing to count on in stamps, then we might be able to find that in our economy, based on direct investments in 2002, only on privatisation, about 660 million marks were invested, and that would necessarily have to reflect the total growth of production during 2002. Unfortunately, all the parameters that talk about production growth are not so optimistic, are not colored and are not as good as could be concluded from this data. Secondly, there is something in this law that seems at first sight to be a technical problem which these changes solve, but if you seriously engage in an analysis of the proposed legal solutions, then you will see that it is not just technical problems, but also essential. Of course, there are some things that the SPS parliamentary group agrees with; for example, it is a provision of the law to abolish the so-called "species". stimulating the right to purchase, so 30% of the free shares remain for employees of these companies. I now remind you and Mr. Minister, we are the MEPs from this pay phone, when the law was passed in mid-2001, warning that we cannot punish workers in enterprises that are privatised in the second, third or fourth year of privatisation. It's a good thing someone finally figured it out. Another solution that is also, but only partially acceptable to the SPS, is a provision by which funds are in some way channelled based on privatisation, with a predominant intention to be used for the restructuring of businesses and for the development of the Republic of Serbia. It would be okay if it weren't just 50% of these funds, although we generally think that other than those 10% of the funds for the PIO Fund and those 5% for local self-government, all the funds based on privatisation must be just for development, i.e. the start of the economy. In this regard, I remind you of the information the minister told us here yesterday in the presentation, which is that we are, in fact, when we add up all the items from the 2003 budget, in his view, invested more funds in the economy than was achieved on the basis of privatisation. Then we have an illogical situation that we are actually now in this solution, if what the minister was talking about is true, we are reducing the funds based on privatisation intended for the development of the economy. Thirdly, there is no socialist who is against privatisation, but everyone will tell you that privatisation must primarily be based on a consensus that must be achieved in terms of privatisation between future owners, governments, trade unions, employees, management or management. If there is no consensus on this subject, then there is no successful privatisation, and we will always be able to doubt whether we did anything right, so on some other occasion, etc. Unfortunately, the solutions we have here today, in front of this Parliament, are not going in that direction, but are actually going in the direction that some previously acquired workers' rights are also being reduced by the original text of the Privatisation Act. There is, I would simply say, an irrational fear that a greater right will be given to workers in companies, starting with getting up to 30% of the shares or that they can possibly participate as representatives of the unions in auction committees; or, please, look at the wonders, the privatisation entity cannot even comment on these proposed changes on the legality of the privatisation process. So, you're selling one privatisation entity, all the participants at the auction have the right to possibly make a comment, only the person who's the subject of the sale doesn't have that right, or has no right to make any remarks and this right here is being denied. It would also be interesting to hear why so much fear of working stock. A colleague, Slobodan Tomovic, spoke about it yesterday, and even in America, it is being cherished. We are here trying to prevent workers from reaching even 30% of the capital in their businesses in all possible ways. You'll say it's not true. Now, I'm going to ask Mr. Minister, who doesn't listen to this, but he's going to have to understand what this is about, the technical problem is that we turn 400 marks into 200 euros, but what happens to the revaluation of capital from half of 2001 to today, that is, 20 months later. You have this situation, social capital in enterprises is revolving at least for price increases in 2001 for six months, in 2002 by at least 14.5% and in 2003 for inflation growth. That, in my humble account, is about 30%. When you have a fixed rate of stamps or euros, you actually have an objectively reduced participation of workers in the level of capital that will be achieved by free share of shares. On the other hand, you have such barriers in the law that simply in life, in practice, make it impossible for workers to reach that 30% capital, especially in those cases where we happen to achieve a higher price through auction sales, and thus again reduces the relative participation of workers in total capital. So, for me, it's an open problem that must, if not technically, at least be observed from the point of view of conducting the procedure. Please, how is it possible that a privatizing company can't be a signer of a contract for someone to buy it? The agency is being placed in the role of whoever de facto owns the company, and no document, no constitution, no privatisation law, no other laws give it to the Agency. In stock companies, which have social capital in their structure, there are representatives of this social capital, someone has to represent it, someone has to be the signator of a contract between the company, the buyer and the Agency. I do not dispute the role of the Agency as one to perform the Agency's service, but I do dispute the role of having unlimited social capital in all privatisation entities without the influence of that privatisation entity. If the privatisation entity only implies the director of the company, then it's one big illusion, because the privatisation entity should actually make workers with 30% shares obtained without compensation. So they're partners with a future buyer who should continue to develop their businesses, to live and work with all the problems that arise from this activity. Of course, time is running out. I'll talk about it when we have our amendments, but please, Mr. Minister, don't be so hard-core and nothing that would go in favor of the workers at this point without disturbing the concept of the law, you don't accept. I don't understand this approach that everything is really being rejected, which could in some way be like meeting understanding of some rights of workers in these companies, which are de facto and previous law, and this percentage of compulsory sales of 70% of capital derogated and significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26748	The word has been given by MP Stevan Guduric, an authorised representative of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26749	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let us continue this story on the amendments to the Privatisation Act, and we must comment on some of the statements made by the minister, which Mrs. Comic did not allow me to replicate to him today, regardless of what I was right. Therefore, when they mention the previous speaker and say that the speaker has not delivered the correct facts, then we will say this: Ministers, when you bring in one who has received 30,000 euros in Beocino, I will vote for each of your laws, but since there is no one who has received 30,000 euros, then I cannot vote for this law or any other, because it is the fact that they received severances from ten to thirty thousand marks, which is very different from the euro. It depends on years of internships carried out at the Beocian cement factory and these are facts. Also, that voluntary departure seemed about to be what they say to you from the management structure -- take this money and go, otherwise you go anyway, but there's no money. To explain this great severance. There's no technical surplus under the contract for five years. For half a year, they paid workers at Bechojnska factory, paid with a three-year salary, burned up a year and a half of their wages, and drove the workers out of work. All the workers together have been carrying that best beocinian salary in the country for the last 15 years, and now 1,000 are fewer workers. For the filter, Mr. Minister, I will now read you what you asked for. You said today that the previous set could have been invested, and the truth is so and you can come along, as you said your colleagues could go there and look, if they don't believe, in a sugar shop, I'm calling you in Beocin. The ecological situation in Beocin has never been worse than it has been in the last year since Lafarg was there, because there was no other fuel in Beocin, except for anthracyte and gas. Now there's some oil from Hungary, and there's fog in Beocino every day. I happen to live there all these 50 years and I know very well what I'm talking about, and you can come and see for yourself. In one amendment, which practically forms an integral part of the law, because you accepted it among other things, says: "The means to fulfil the full and reach the obligation to purchase capital, i.e. assets based on environmental pollution and damage to the environment, if the cause of the obligation arises before the conclusion of the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. the property is secured in the budget of the Republic of Serbia". Why is he being provided? The buyer takes over all the rights and obligations arising from the purchase, so it was up to him to see if it had happened or not, but my God, why would we pay some Hans, George, Pierre or some domestic thief even with it, and that environmental pollution of the minister would pay the budget, because you accepted it on that board. What you're talking about here, that someone could have introduced an ecology there before, when you're now accepting that from the republican budget, that ecology is being brought to some level. Someone bought that factory. I read, when the law was here, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's letter to Mr. Deklerk and you didn't turn your bags around afterwards to explain how full the bag of documents was and that the cement was correct. That was a year and a half ago. Then, about the adequate rewarding of workers; you know, ministers, when the company half the workforce, and the salary doesn't rise 10%, then it's said that all the other money went to that one. I don't blame these Lafarjas. They came to take as much profit as possible and it's quite O Kay, except the government in Serbia has allowed them to take such a profit for a year to pay back the money invested, because it's a strong fact. Some of them called me here and I'd like to clear up a little bit of a misunderstanding from this morning. I'm sorry a gentleman isn't here, but what can I do? Everyone has a duty to be there. I said first thing in the morning, a friend of Chad's, and then some of them resented me, and they said that Chada's a friend of yours, so they tie it to some other stuff. To be clear, all of you sitting here I consider friends, and what we think differently is different. I just don't think of a friend here in this assembly as Mr. Kasu's MPs and those who would of the northern coastal municipalities make southern Hungary. They can't be my friends on any basis, and the rest of you can, and we can differ in our opinion and compete here or we can't compete. No one's against privatisation, just robbery. That sale where the only one who sells is asked nothing and doesn't sign anything, which is what we're talking about. It's about social capital. What he is, he fell from the sky maybe. The workers of the Beikin cement factory in the 1960s made the first rotational furnace on dry soil, from their humps, and it was made by the Danes. No state brought the money and let them build the factory. The same thing happened in 1967, and in 1973, a $125m loan took place, which these same workers paid off, to build this largest share of the capacity of the 75 percent Beician cement factory. (Milka Marinkovic: Don't knock.) I want to hit Milk, you listen. So to rule out the one who did it for some imaginary social capital, which is what we're talking about and who we're talking about selling a candle horn to. These investments that we're going to rush into and advance don't exist. Come show me in Beocino, take my hand, take me where it's invested, and I'll make a public apology from here. Not a single franc, not a dollar, not another currency brought out. It's money. So, we gave them the bad guys' factory, they fired half the workers, and then with that profit, they're gonna bet. That's what we could do to ourselves. Wearing helmets; in Beocin, helmets were worn while the minister crawled in the dust and it was very normal there. So, let's talk about how some Georges, Pierres and Hanses are coming to teach us how to do business, let's get out of it. The income that local self-government should receive does not exist because Minister Djelic did not come out to explain why there is no tax on the transfer of absolute rights. In what France could Lafarge buy a factory and not pay taxes? Why would he buy a factory at our place and not pay his taxes? Because in Beocino, the minister can come to see it, because he sent to the sugar shop and I called him to Beocino to see that it was written there. Is that/ that maybe Lafarja sold some imagination, he as if he didn't own it, as a turkey dot doesn't apply, that 70% doesn't mean anything. What do you want to talk about here? Or, to give all the authority to the Agency where, at least when I was, less than a year ago, I sat mostly with the naked kids. They don't shave not because they're cornered on their mom, but because they're not up to the age when people usually shave. They're being given into their hands and they're going to negotiate with white-world con men with a fair sale. Who paints the clouds for who? What do you want to talk about at this privatisation? You don't understand, my friend. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Come to Beocchin and you'll see for yourself. The minister calls in the sugar shop, and I'm calling in Beocin every one of you who doesn't believe what they're saying. You'll find it very easy to make sure that's the case. When we come to talk about the amendments, then probably the minister or his team will try to explain who stole Beocino 170 million dinars, but the 170 million dinars have to start recalculating with the corresponding interest, because it's almost a year since they didn't come to Beoczyne.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26750	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Vlahovic spoke in his tirads these two days, and I didn't understand him at all, because he didn't talk about the economy at all. Simply, he spoke affirmatively about the law that he is presenting here to the peoples and citizens of Serbia, as if we were stupid, so we don't understand anything about the economy and we don't know what privatisation is. We don't know, though, this concept of privatisation he's offering us. So Minister Vlahovic is talking about knowing the buyer, that in the tender, business entities, i.e. privatisation entities, can be informed of both the price and the customer's name. However, I can deny the minister. That's exactly why I wanted to talk about this law, in that context. Everything he said here isn't true. That's not true. I have an argument from the company he mentioned here. He's asking us to come to the sugar shop, see what it's like out there. In diabetes, Minister Vlahovic made the whole mess, so he was sued by the Administrative Court by the Redk sugar factory, through Minister Dragan Veselinov, whom he also filed a criminal charges for counterfeiting which he made and presented to the workers and the tender commission, whose president he is. In fact, there is also a man in the tender commission who is not in force under the law, nor by the one in which you are now making a change, could be a member of the negotiations in this process.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26752	Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26753	I'm talking about the subject right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26754	It's not a free topic of privatisation, so now you're talking about an individual example that comes to your mind. I warned you to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26755	Very funny. Madam President, don't get involved in my business. You're a lawyer, and I can't interfere with your rights, because I'm not a lawyer, but I am a businessman, and I know it well. So, don't interrupt me in my work, because I know very well what business is and what privatisation is, unlike many here. So I'm talking about the Privatisation Act saying that privatisation entities can't be the ones who own the Privatisation Entity. In this case, the minister personally placed in the tender commission of a man who has 69 shares in the redish factory. He was on the tender committee. Why? Because one of the 80 members of the assembly was for this concept of privatisation, and all the other workers were against it. Of course, on that basis, workers of the Redish factory disputed that principle of privatisation, which shows that it has been restored. I would not stick to this, as you said, to a problem that is not in your opinion the subject of this debate, but I must say that the concept of privatisation allows for the manipulations used extensively, primarily by political parties that depend on the survival of the government, where the voices that should support the government of Zoran Djindjic come from. So the new Social Democrats of Vojvodina League, Nenad Chanka and Mr Pomoriška, a former MP among those 310 MPs. Dragan R. Kosanovic privatized the company DPP "Chonoplja" and thus facilitated the company by over 600...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26756	I'm warning you next time, Mr. Kesey. We know you have a weak heart, we had a problem with you once, please stick to the agenda theme and respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26757	I'm absolutely sticking to the agenda. Do you mind the truth? Why are you distracting me in my work? I'm talking about Minister Vlahovic talking about transparency here, talking about honesty, and now I'm arguing that Minister Vlahovic lied here. Minister Vlahovic was not warned that he was moving away from the topic, and by taking notes from his speech, I had just responded to the false allegations he presented here before the MPs and before the people. So, and in particular, I'm going to talk, because I didn't get to say everything because you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26758	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26759	I must warn you, Mrs. Micic, that you hurt the Rules of Procedure when the predecessor, Stevan Kesejić, was behind the pay phone. You've been taking out details of his private life, which is forbidden to you by your Rules of Procedure. I have much to object to your education, and the state of your spirit, and the state of your brain, so I don't object because I'm going to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26760	People's messenger, I give you a warning because of the insult you've done to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26761	Just tell me why it's dangerous for me to object to your brain condition, and it's not dangerous for you to object to Stephen Keseiæ's condition. And, uh, get me a list of body parts that can't be mentioned after this pay phone anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26762	I'd just remind you that you had a grudge that I didn't know the gentleman had a weak heart, so I warned him. That was well-intentioned, and that can't be an excuse for you to insult others, like you always do. The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, somewhere in mid-2001, I said that I didn't see so much anger when someone was saying that this privatisation law, which the DOS proposed, was wrong; it was a conflict of two concepts of privatisation, the SPS and the DOS. What's the difference? Now, after a year and a half, it's a huge difference, because the SPS concept went hand in hand to those who were building and working in factories, giving 60% of free shares, and this one went to a quick sale and to lay off all workers' rights when it comes to businesses. Fortunately for me, and only because I was right, as well as those who stayed in the factories at best, and unfortunately for those on the street, it proved very quickly that they acquired economic elements that they could give a parallel analysis of which concept is better here and which will win. I said there'd come a time when the ones they're referring to, and first of all, I was thinking about the workers, that they'd give a metric assessment of which concept is better. Fortunately, it hasn't been a year and a half, and elements have already appeared that tell which concept is better. When the minister spoke here for tens of minutes yesterday, if someone had come suddenly to this country or come out of the glass bell, they'd say there's prosperity here. And if that's not the case, I'll give you a few examples. According to our concept it was privatised or handed over to the workers at the hands of several companies that today belong (to the Minister) to the best companies. I'd just like to mention, say, the Apathian brewery, Hemofarm, Gornji Milanovac and a few other companies. Let the Ministers, you have the best companies today. And to mention those companies sold out during the previous year, that no funds were achieved first and that the workers went out on the street. An eclectic example of not selling the company and not having to forcefully privatise the company, is an example of a sugarcane in Red. Such a sugar cane, and please remember this well, such a sugar shop in Virovitica, Croatia has been sold for 20m euros and 10m euros in investment. The first bid in the Red Diabetes tender was 2m euros and about 11.7m investment in investments. Then the hard workers rebelled to sell out and said: only a foolish or corrupt man can sell for free a $15m-a-year profit company, which has a $40m-a-year trade and which has other accompanying facilities - only a pond worth three million, a 1.5m-euro fleet; only a crazy manager can sell the company for free. That's what your newspapers say, I totally believe them, since they shouldn't bring out the information that, after a month of violent attempt, a company that now gives only a million dinars more, three million dinars, 7.5 million for investments and several hundred thousand euros in the social programme has emerged. Prior to that, DB workers stayed for several days at the factory, representatives of the Greek firm and representatives of the agency where workers literally forced the Assembly to vote on the sale. They told them they'd lose their jobs, they'd put in temporary measures and they'd have to accept this concept. It's a February 18th Dnevnik and a February 14th Dnevnik, please read the minister's data, and if it's not true what they said, then that's where the court needs to work. So when they tried to stop the sale and literally give away the best factory, the red sugarcane, then the sale was forced. Is that a real privatisation? It will be assessed by the public and by the MPs here if they want to deal with this problem. The fact that you sold three cement plants for just $138.9 million, and in 1996, you could get that much, they offered, 141 million dollars, is quite enough to talk about privatisation. It's a January 23rd, 2003, "Nin" came out. If "Nin" is lying, I bought and sold for it. So what we've been saying is that the vast majority of workers will be out of work, that the factories will best be sold in a year and a half to prove absolutely correct. What are you going to sell next year? Probably when you sell what's worth and what's been done with us, you've got nothing left. The proof that that concept of privatisation was far more humane and far better is the fact that these companies that I have listed are doing extremely well today, and no workers have fired. I'd like to ask you one more thing, when it was the Extraprofit Act, we said it was a law that only goes to individuals from the SPS, so that at that point, you'd get the question out of your problems. What did you find? You found a few dozen square meters of flats to tax. Now you don't ask those who in the gray economy acquired tens of millions of euros when they appear as mushrooms after the rain to buy businesses, now it doesn't matter where they get the money. When you question you from where they got the money, then you have the right to question the others. Yesterday the minister said, there's electricity. Well, if we had collected the electricity seven times, we wouldn't have spent 170 million kilowatts a day, it would have been enough at that price for sure and for export. So much for what he's got today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26764	Dragisa Djokovic has the word, followed by MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26765	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, I will begin with the words of the Honorable Minister: when I say privatisation, I mean investment. When we say and when we hear transition, we mean privatisation. In front of us are complemented by the basic law in transition which essentially changes the social system, where from a system of dominant social property we are turning into a system of private property, i.e. into a capitalist system. The question is, how do we get past and in what legal environment? Is this legal environment good, did this ministry and this government make a good environment, a safe environment, where potential investors and customers will feel safe? I can tell you that such an ambience is not created. I remember the stories of ten large foreign companies coming in immediately, etc. Unfortunately, these foreign companies are gone and have not arrived. The government has not granted once to report to the Assembly on its work, both in terms of economy or privatisation, transition and other reforms. A little bit of reform lagging behind, a little neglected. The only reforms may have been on tobacco and asphalting, but now it's stopped. How will you encourage a foreign potential buyer to come to one country? How will you encourage the people to invest and invest, when you are a successful, well-known Doctors of Legal Science and Constitutional Court Judges deluded. How you'll only fool investors and potential investors when you've managed to deceive and delud the assistant ministers, and the people that you're going crazy. Simply, when we talked about lawmaking, I asked the Honorable Minister that our economy would not go according to the principle of Croatia; that Serbian tycoons would not be created, future owners. Unfortunately, all this process is going towards it and tycoons are being created, or hundreds or several hundred people who will be the owners of Serbia's entire economy. That's what's not good, and that's why the DSS can't support this law. The proposer leaves out the obligation by extraprofit this time. So it doesn't matter how anyone makes money in a gray, black, white economy, just give it money and you're welcome. I'll give you a concrete example, this may be possible only in this country, because the minister wanted names before; I don't know if he's a director, volunteer or what Mr. Svetozar Krstic, director of the Republic Labour Market Office, is already buying two companies; for now we'll see if he'll buy them more. I am sure Minister Vlahovic is much more successful, smarter and more capable than he is, worked in much better companies and has more money, and so far he has not bought a single firm. So I don't see how someone who's the director of a private firm or the owner, or something like that, and also the director of the Republic Labour Market Office, is buying money. All right, man always knew how to be in ruling parties, or ruling coalitions. These transfers are always well paid and charged. Simply, when you send such a message to customers, you send it to foreigners, they see, for example, there's not much law in this country, not even the Constitution, and then there's no such investment. When we mention economics and privatisation, it always forgets the economy. The state of our economy, if we exclude the energy sector and agriculture, is nothing. Industrial production is virtually almost gone, growth is gone, no resuscitation is gone, no incentives and no stimuli. Let's take the flag, the Genex, which one of the minor DOS parties is keeping under his control; today you read that "Genex" goes bankrupt. The party may be engaged in rat poisoning in Serbian prisons, but the Serbian economy certainly cannot manage. One thing Mr. Minister remained in our debt to us, and I think it would be order, if he said that privatisation was going well, that everything was fine, and there was an undetected shift at the head of the Privatisation Agency. Simply, if everything went well, why was Mr. Čupić removed and Mr. Vlahovic's deputy was appointed. If Mr. Cupic was doing a bad job, as the transparent government says, she should publish what he was doing, how, why and why he was replaced. And it's not very transparent and it's not very nice when a deputy minister is appointed as the director of the agency, who is now given such great powers as to sell capital. So, the agency is selling something that is essentially not hers, avoiding a privatization subject. I don't know if she's avoiding herself because of some insubordinate management, if it's just because of the Redish sugar factory, who didn't want to agree to privatization because of the sale, or some other examples. In any case, the agency is now given great authority. It's also another problem, which the DSS always points to, and that's the issue of selling kidnapped and someone else's. It cannot be sold nationalised property, without that law, without fair compensation and recovery of that property. You can't do that. If 5% separates from former owners, at that rate at 5% of the next 100 years, you will not repay the property to those to whom it has been taken. In the end, I would like to ask us something that the minister promised us when we passed the law, that the privatisation agency's office in Kosovo Mitrovica would open, not to our law, which seems to me to be discriminatory, possible or impossible, but to protect the property of the state of Serbia and Serbian companies and banks, which have invested a lot and many debts left to the Serbian state, those assets and those relations. You know, and I'm going to remind you that UNMIK can't afford property, that it's not his to do so. commercialisation of production capacities in Kosovo and Metohija. You have a case where 7,500 workers were expelled in the EPS from Kosovo and Metohija, by June 1st, and more than 7,000 are probably out of work. They worked, they contributed to the EPS. Now it doesn't have anything. I'll give you all the other examples of Blink. The state of Serbia knows who is headed by Trepce and how it works, that everything is working against the state of Serbia, and the debts of Trepce are hundreds of millions of dollars, remain with Serbian banks, Yugoslavs, Belgrade Bank, Serbian companies and the Serbian government in general. It is known that crimes are being done there, that they are being done for the benefit of UNMIK and Shipara, and that there is no benefit for the Serbs. The agency has been promised to sell what is not his or her own. She was promised two years ago, none of it was. The competent state authorities are unable to distract Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, to promise them the return of the military and police, but they can enable them to live, protect their, property of their firms and their states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26766	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26767	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, just over a year and a half ago, a privatisation law was passed in this assembly. The SJJ warned at the time that the proposed text of the law was not good and would not do good to the Serbian economy, Serbian workers and to the Serbian state at all. We tried then, as of now, to correct the proposed text of the Privatisation Law with amendments, as well as other opposition parties. Unfortunately for us, and unfortunately for most of Serbia's workers and citizens, they were not accepted, and it came into effect such a radical Law of Privatisation, which did not bring any good to Serbia, Serbia's economy and Serbian workers, the state of Serbia. What brings us the application of the Privatization Act in the last 20 months? Despite the reform government's efforts to show in every way possible in front of its controlled media that honey and milk have begun to flow in the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, the results are quite different. Statistics show, and these are published data from the Statistical Institute, which is under the control of this government, that we have a decline in industrial production in Serbia in 2002 compared to 2001, an increase in the number of unemployed workers by several tens of thousands, those registered workers, the decline in purchasing, real purchasing power of workers and citizens of Serbia, etc. All Serbian citizens expected that, in addition to those 6 billion dollars, waiting at the border of the Republic of Serbia to enter this poor and harassed country, in addition to donations, donations, etc., foreign capital will enter, that the standard of workers will increase, that industrial production and employment will increase, that young people will have a perspective. Unfortunately, I repeat again, what the Soviet Union warned about proved true. That job was nothing. The second question now arises -- where are the money invested from the best Serbian companies sold, because it has just started selling the best Serbian companies? The first thing started was the sale of Serbian cementers; by the way, the worst merchant in the Republic of Serbia could sell them. You know, I come from Pomorava, and there's a bunch of sea peasants, when they get into a crisis, the ordinary market doesn't do the best cow, but try to sell the worst to save themselves, to somehow lead their household to the better. This is where it started, in Serbia's economy, in privatisation, to sell what was best, which was working well in the previous period, where wages were extremely good. The average salary in those cement plants was otherwise well above the average in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. And where that money was invested -- instead of being invested in the economy, in production, in new jobs, in employment, in the development and opening of small and medium-sized enterprises, exactly the majority of these gains are parading into non-profit things. I'll take just one example - from the sale of the cement factories in Velika Popovac, from Paracino, from those small pairs, the 5% left over to Paracino municipality, Mr. Minister, invests these days 600,000 marks in the opening of local TV Paracin, so we're wondering if it's possible that this money, which all the workers and citizens of the Paracino municipality, are investing in something that is not profitable? But you know why it is investing - because the Democratic Party Committee is disbanded there, some trustee has been introduced and his desire is to open up TV Paracino, so that he can keep appearing and probably advertise, or whatever else he can do, this reform government, the reforms that the citizens of Serbia have led to as far as they have led. On the other hand, it was said here that the money taken from the companies sold is invested in agriculture. Now, as a man from the Soviet Union, who cares about agricultural production and agricultural producers, who from liberation, I mean from World War II, to this day were not in a worse position, that someone from the Ministry of Privatisation and Agriculture points to me with a finger and tells me where they are invested, in which agricultural good, in which agricultural land, and money? The peasant has never lived worse than he does today and don't let us talk about living better today, that money is invested in peasants, in loans. Where are your loans? Where's the money? They're gone, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it very well. And the gentleman who comes from the Podunava County who knows how to look into the other people's yard (whose comment from the hall he hasn't heard) and to talk about what's going on, it would be best to go outside the worker "Gosa" from Smederjevska Palanka and explain to them why they haven't received their salary for 15 months and why their movement towards the Great Plana and the highway is called the march of the hungry. Just let him explain it. Because exactly 18 and 20 months is how the Privatization Act is applied. We're talking about selling companies under old law and new at real prices, and if we're looking at TV auction sales of certain companies, we'll see that many companies are sold at book value, which has nothing to do with real market value. I'll give you one example. Some time ago in Belgrade, part of a three-part company was sold for some 600,000 marks, with a six-year repayment deadline, and the company is located in the heart of the city, has several thousand squares of business space and only by selling that business space will the new owner get three times as much money as he invested. And this company has no losses, no unmistakable obligations, so now we from the Serbian Unity Party are asking -- what are real estimates, which is the real market value of the companies sold. There was talk about the price of cement here, so I have to mention that. Mr. Minister said production inputs fell 35% at the factory in Popovac. If so, why did the new boss not lower the price of cement by at least 15% or 20%, not say 35%, if its cost of production was reduced by 35%. I guess that's market business. The output costs of production were reduced, but the price remained the same, and it is said to be higher. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have an obligation to inform you as deputy president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group that just these days I have received a letter from the only union that represents the interests of workers and employees in the Republic of Serbia, which is from the Alliance of Independent Synicates of Serbia, which, among other things, warns - "from our point of view is a disastrously proposed solution that nothing is asked by that entity to privatise whose capital, i.e. property is sold." And not to read any further, just one warning. The union asks for the privatisation process to exclude facilities for rest and recreation of employees, and for them to be transferred into the property of the union in a privatisation entity, primarily respecting the fact that they were built out of common spending funds. The union warns that in the event that such a caucus bill is adopted, it will be an additional incentive to show already accumulated dissatisfaction and otherwise disbursed employees, who are in an extremely difficult material and social situation. Ladies and gentlemen, for these and many other reasons, the Soviet Union cannot support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Privatisation, because we know and are sure that it will only bring worse to the Serbian worker, the Serbian economy and the citizens of Serbia as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26768	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you should apply a member of the Rules of Procedure when you chair a National Assembly that allows you to force, if you have any authority, your authority in the O.R. to listen to speakers. I don't mind that at all, I can yell, it's important for me to hear Serbian citizens on TV convey what I'm going to say, but it would be my turn for MPs from your MP group to listen politely to what MPs say, especially from the opposition, from the SRS, on a proposal for this law amending the Privatisation Act. For every normal country in the world, the list of priorities first contains the creation of normal conditions to attract all economic operators. As we are the country in which it is necessary to implement the privatisation process, which the SRS has advocated since its founding, we have also been on the original, or valid bill of law, which it submitted on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vlahovic in 2001, because we have already suspected that Serbia will become a very suitable polygon and soil for various mafia and criminal activities, and especially because of the establishment of so-called. Privatisation agencies. The creation of such a monopoly and giving opportunity to Vlahovic himself and the people in the Agency is a special story - don't forget, it was founded by means of some donations, from your friends abroad, six or six and a half million dollars, and this is the best Minister Vlahovic himself knows, according to a special agreement that has been ratified in the former Federal Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which you have torn apart. However, these ambiences of this government and Minister Vlahovic himself cannot be created because he has given up fully one piece of his authority, which is to take care of the economy in our country. And not only did he give up, but he himself and all the ministers, headed by Zoran Djindjic, have for the past two and a half years made our economy completely collapse. That is why it is very important, and especially because of the MPs who want to worry about the fate of the workers, who are not concerned with Vlahovic and the other ministers, primarily all of you from DOS and Djindjic, left without a job, to ask here today, and especially us who are coming from Kragujevac, Aleksandr Vlahovic - who is him and on whose behalf, and especially those children and others from the Privatisation Agency, have the power to sign a pre-contract with one of the world's biggest frauds from the so-called "Stava" group. His car company Malcolm Bricklin. Whoever authorized you, Mr. Vlahovic, that in such a way, with the man who destroyed the South Emperor in time, you sign a pre-contract for the strategic sale of the flag group, and that during that time you tell workers who protest daily in Kragujevac that they cannot demand to exercise their rights. Because in order to sell to someone the way you prescribed it by law, especially such a strategic enterprise in our country, you would have to, if you were a responsible man, and this government, to allow them to settle their previous obligations. And not to tell us here for two days about the way you're going to sell out state and social property, to take the companies into bankruptcy, so cold out of here you threw to Mr. Keseiæ that the factory he mentioned was sold in a bankruptcy procedure. That's the easiest part, because you've put nearly 600 companies in a position to go bankrupt. And, as you did yesterday, through the division of four groups of changes in the law, you looked at technical changes, I must, given the fact that you are one of the ministers, I am sorry that the citizens of Serbia can't see it, in fact, the minister who has the biggest suitcase, the leather bag came here to the Assembly, to tell you that what is rightly said - euros, they won't be able, if you planned to, to fit in such a big suitcase, so it would be a turn, when you already have such intentions, to technically edit it and write no - euro, because Serbs will never accept Ustas's new speech, but to write - the euro, as it should stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26770	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26771	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Privatisation. The very announcement of this law has raised hope among many people in professional circles, as well as in many citizens of Serbia, whom this law and as regards, that the billmaker, Doss's authority, or this government, after two years of applying this law, has finally seen and seen all the perilous sides of this law, and we have also claimed that the law is extremely bad, and that it intends to work on the revision of this law. Even with the greatest pessimists, it never occurred to me that something that is extremely bad could still be broken. DOS wouldn't be a miracle if it couldn't spoil what no one believes can break. What was the thought of all benevolent people? Everyone thought in a way that experts in the government of Serbia, and calling on others, perhaps from some shadow government, some people from the opposition who know something about this problem, will do a good and serious analysis of the application of this law and in the course of the analysis and determine what is wrong with this law, why it gives devastating results. But something quite the opposite happened. There was a lot to fix in this law. What is the condition of all conditions to function in one privatisation law is the absolute political consensus of all relevant political forces in parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, there is great responsibility at the ruling coalition. And why am I saying this? The only thing about this moment that can achieve absolute political consensus is privatisation. Why? There are no MPs in this parliament, and among the 250, there is no political party that does not consider privatisation necessary, that it must be armed and mandatory. That's 90% of the problem we're talking about. What's the problem? Only in that those in power, since they were talking to each other yesterday, are applying only 10% of what they were saying. You can't solve this problem if your idea of leadership is to stay in power at all costs. There's the stone, the absolute stone of the whole stumbling block. If your idea of leadership is to stay in any way in power, then you cancel out all the other elements, you're always going the wrong way. Why did I say that the condition of all conditions is a political consensus, and we have it, that's about 90% of the stuff, I said. It's enough for international investors, people who have money, to get the head of a large parliamentary group, the opposition group, who gets 37% in the election or other opposition groups and say, "Ladies and gentlemen, when we come to power, we will repeal this law." Today we hear some who voted for this law, people have changed their minds, that's human, and their president has received two million votes, that they say too -- when we come, we'll change the law. Well, who in those conditions is going to come and invest in one country, is there one? We can outwit each other and lie, in such conditions no one will invest, not even them, you may be so politically better that you don't see, and have you ever wondered why the Italians sold a third of the price of Telecom stock? You don't think Zoran Djindjic is such a big merchant that he tricked the Italians into selling shares for one third of the price they bought. No, they saw this area, it's hard to work in these conditions, and then they said, let's take anything, get the money back. So, who thinks well of their children and their futures, at least about that one thing has to bury some axes, and you as the ruling coalition to make an effort to raise the issue of consensus. I know you're not going easy with power, but you have to try for consensus. I just said that privatisation is necessary, that it is mandatory, that it is armed -- we agree on that. That's 90% of the problem, we don't just agree that money is necessarily going into the budget and that it's only used to protect the government. If the minister were correct, he would have named this speaker the ten most successful firms in Serbia, by all elements, profits, investments, here. Here, I'll tell you. The most successful companies are: "Hemofarm", "Simpo" Vranje, "Apatian brewery", "Metalac" Gornji Milanovac, "Planinka", "Vitall", "Diamant" and not to count further; meaning from all areas. These are companies privatised under the 1997 law, where shareholders are shareholders, where stocks have jumped multiplely, where no worker will, as the minister says, sell you action for a bottle of vodka. Look, 60,000 euros is a package of "Apathian brewery" workers. At none of those factories you can buy shares for a bottle of beer. So it's not a model. If we set the goal of hunting mice, it's not the yellow cat best, it doesn't have to be yellow, it's the best one who hunts mice best. So it's about an interest that's very big, and if some day's political interests shut down, there's a possibility that there's a consensus about this thing. All you have to do is, I said, give up that you want power at all costs, then you see everything with your eyes open, and the gentlemen who voted for the law, even in the halls and convinced me more strongly of you that the concept was good, when they moved a little bit from power, they managed to see that it wasn't the right model, but it was the one that gave the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26772	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26773	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, the DSS, and while the opposition was still in place after October 5th, advocated privatisation by saying there was no reform without privatisation, and that there was no privatisation without the ambience for orderly economic life, no market, no justice and no something that was much used, and what was not, the OECD report and the European Commission report show, without transparency. The system in Serbia is the most vulnerable to corruption and bribery, as one of the most innovative in all transition countries. The Democratic Party of Serbia, in support of this law in 2001, said that the text of the law is much more important than how the law will be implemented and how people who will be at the Privatisation Agency will act and who will work within the Ministry of Privatisation. It turns out that black hunches have come true, that the lack of control in the privatisation process, the report we get, vague tenders, have caused a poor privatisation system in Serbia. The DSS, not running away from the fact that the law adopted in this assembly is bad and that it has proved to be an inadequate solution to the situation in Serbia, seeks, will seek, and believes that this law should be changed, but not in the way proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Privatisation, by making one bad concept worse for the citizens of Serbia, but in the direction that the concept is better for the citizens of Serbia and that participation in this process is much better, much more transparent and that the financial effects per citizen of Serbia are much better. If someone had asked us in 2001 -- do you agree to sell sugar for three euros, I think anyone in this assembly would say it doesn't fit. The Socialists didn't do it either, but it's done in some reform Serbia. Why sugars are sold one way, and cements are sold the other way. Why are cementers only sold to strategic partners who are producers, and sugar cans are sold to trading houses? Why do we have two different criteria for two equally important strategic industries? That's what he might be telling you - because there are all kinds of godmothers, various financials, various friends, who buy three sugars for 9 euros. How are the social programs? We'll see. When it came to the privatisation process and the privatisation law at all, explaining this law, government representatives told us that by the end of 2002 ten of the world's 100 largest companies would be in Serbia, that they would take part in the privatisation process. What happened? We haven't seen any of the major companies in Serbia, nor will we see it as long as we have a government that doesn't guarantee that there is no theft; especially not in parliament, in front of the public, because then how can anyone's capital be guaranteed. How can someone count on this property to be his, when this government will not correct the old injustices that its predecessors have done by nationalizing. Why don't you get into the process of denationalization, of course, where you can. It will not be taken away and done new injustices where it cannot be done, but where it can be done. It's simply that way we don't attract, but we reject potential investors. The next argument of this law was that technology would be upgraded through investment investments. Were there investment investments in Serbia, foreign investments? It's not. We had a new concession law, the proposal didn't get support in this assembly. Obviously, there's something going on here. As many foreign investments have been made in Serbia, it can be counted. Tens of millions of dollars from the promised billions. How much money has come to Serbia since the June 2001 Donor's Conference? How much money has there been since then promised a billion and 300 million dollars? This should be answered by Mr Pitic, who did not submit his report to this assembly, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who will not report on his work to the Assembly, but is covering up the ridiculous reports that are going through the committees of the Assembly, where these reports do not pass. Another argument, by realising binding investments in social programmes, will compensate, resolve the issue of already existing surpluses. Were there investments in social programs? You can see it every day from a union protest in Serbia -- there is no such investment. Are the work force surplus problems solved? From 2001 to 2003, the surplus labour force has increased, the number of unemployed has increased and has now risen to over a million. We discussed and adopted a law in this assembly on a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency. That agency didn't live. It was supposed to be a driving force for extra employees in the privatisation process from large companies to small and medium-sized enterprises. The agency didn't live, nor did the government's concept succeed. Why? No environment, no proper law, no system changes, everything else is the same, and it just can't change. The privatisation minister is also the minister of the economy, except no one knows. Do you, what and how much did it seem to create an economic environment for foreign investment? It's not enough to have just privatisation, because it doesn't mean anything without a business environment and that's why it goes like this, so the factories are sold for three euros. Can you go to privatisation without a value charter market, without the goods and services market? He can't, but someone here keeps trying to convince us how he can. Someone is persistently trying to convince us that the agency can be a contractor in the privatisation process, that businesses are not relevant, that workers should not be asked how neither local self-government nor the province nor anyone else should be asked. It's an important agency. And you don't get into it because it does something illegal and unconstitutional, because the Agency Act doesn't say that the agency is a contractor in one job. The agency provides advice, consultations, conducts a tender, but cannot be a contractor, especially since it wants to avoid possible protests in certain businesses that someone wants to sell for three euros. We'll have a case where someone decides to sell a factory that has millions of euros in products on the lager; someone sells it for three euros and promises to invest 2.5m euros; when they sell lager goods for 5m euros, you'll get a bill, draw a line and see how much someone who bought it is good. There is then a possibility for employees to rebel, so someone is not responsible for the company being a party to the sales business, or privatisation, because such transactions cannot be concluded. We have a question for Red, and we know how the crowd turned out, how the pressures were done, and how it all ended. I can't sell factories for three euros. If we're already going to change this law, has anyone done an analysis of this law and whether or not the objectives set out in 2001 have been achieved. Of course not. At the moment in Serbia, it is not in the privatisation part that must be present - in the interests of citizens, but contrary to the reform processes. This privatisation will leave the citizens of Serbia and this Serbia without property, without investment and where it will all be sold out. Someone mentioned the example of Svetozar Krstic and should check whether it is true, that a state official participates in tenders and buys companies. There's a lot more to check. Especially for us from the Democratic Party of Serbia, the issue is that someone wants to abolish the provision that extraprofitters cannot participate in privatisation, cannot appear in tenders and any auction sales within the framework of privatisation. Why is that provision abolished? Why does one care that those who have not settled their obligations under the Extraprofit Act, this congregation has passed it as one of the first laws, can now participate in the privatisation process. Why is the Extraprofit Act no longer applicable? Why is only 10% of the estimated amount charged as extraprofit? Why did the Government of the Republic of Serbia quietly and slowly push aside the application of the Extraprofit Act? Why did someone amnesty all those who have been taking out of their pockets for the last ten years for Serbian citizens? Why did someone do that? Whether the Extraprofit Act was just one political beating used to move certain people from the former regime's camp to the camp of this regime, so that they are now in the privatisation, participation and purchase of businesses. Are these justices promised by the arrival of a new authority? No, this is just a continued process of injustice in Serbia, and this way certainly cannot be built by a new reformed society. This is nothing more than the deepening of the command economy in Serbia started with the adoption of the budget, the involvement of the government in all economic flows, the direct involvement of the government in financial flows and, in this way, the exclusion of companies that are subject to privatisation from the negotiation process and the conclusion of the contract, and we are coming to the conclusion that the agency and the Government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26774	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26775	Yeah. We come to the fact that the government and the Agency control all economic flows. Is that even something that Serbian citizens have to suffer? Of course not. What kind of change of law do we need? Do we need a change up there? It's not. We need a better change in this case. Do we have to go from bad to worse? It's not. Does that match the government of the Republic of Serbia? It's a match. Why does it suit them? Because she's gonna control all the money. Do we need to agree to that? You don't have to. Here we are talking about the personal responsibility of each of us who should return to his city and see, when something is privatized, whether this city and whether this local self-government will at all be asked to privatise an enterprise and whether workers, employees, your fellow citizens, will be asked when something is privatized in your city. No, it will all happen again outside the touch of citizens, local self-government and other bodies, even these congregations and assembly committees, who are competent to control privatisation. Once again, everything will be old, centralised and managed from one centre, until the last dinar is removed from the pockets of Serbian citizens, until the last factory in Serbia is sold to political alike, business partners, godfathers, relatives, brothers, women and everyone else. Is that the privatisation Serbia needs? Of course not. We need privatisation to ensure economic growth and development. We have since 2000 had a decline in economic development in Serbia, an increase in the unemployment rate, and we are recording negative trends. Are these the results of the privatisation? Whether with such privatisation results we should not go to a change of concept and a model of privatisation, but rather to deepening the bad and making an even worse concept of privatisation. Is that how the government's responsible works? No, that's what an irresponsible government does, which corresponds only to itself, to its parliamentary majority and to its interests. That's not how you run a state, and that's how you don't sell state and social property for generations, which my father and your father created. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a great responsibility on you and we'll see if you can handle it. Did the privatisation process follow up on the affairs? They did. We only mentioned the cement store in Beocino, we mentioned Red, and there are many more affairs that have been - a direct transfer of individual auctions where the former owners are coming. Is that the right face to privatize? No, ladies and gentlemen. Who wants to buy the property that was taken from someone? Should we first resolve these relationships, then go to privatisation? Kidnapped and cursed, our people say. Other nations have similar proverbs. No one will buy it for you, no one will create legal uncertainty. The DSS, as in many other countries, believes this privatisation process should be changed. This law and concept need to be changed. Simply, what is expected and what the DSS will certainly do after the extraordinary parliamentary elections it will win, that is to change the Law on Privatisation, that it will make this law more in the interests of the Serbian citizens, that more money from this law will remain for the citizens of Serbia and that it will certainly be a momentum for economic development. The DSS MPs won't vote for this bill. We put out and we'll bring out more objections to this law during the debate. We believe that he is moving from bad to worse, deepening one disastrous concept for Serbian citizens. In this way, we're going to poverty them further, and we're going to take the last bank out of their pockets. Since there are no 80 people in this room, compared to 112, 113, standing on the electronic voting system, I call for the correct number of MEPs to be established in the O.R. so that this assembly can work regularly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26776	And your MP group is leaving. People's MP, your MP group is leaving the gym, and you're looking for a quorum. What would you do if you were me? (Dejan Mihajlov: You are the parliamentary majority and you need to secure the quorum. People's Messenger, I give you a warning for the conduct of the Oath and the destruction of the dignity of the National Assembly. (He speaks to MP Dragan Marsicanin). I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word came from the Minister of Industry and Privatisation, Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26777	More than once, it has been said here that it was promised that only in 2002 would there be 10 multinational companies. I owe the Assembly and the public the names of these multinational companies that decided in 2002 to invest their capital in Serbia. You probably forgot that "Merima" was bought by Henkel, a multinational corporation. I assume you know that Lafarz is the largest multinational corporation in the cement industry, that the second-in-a-row Holcim from Switzerland, which invested in Popovac, is that Titan is among the five largest cement producers and other construction materials in the world, a company that bought 70% of the capital of the cement industry in Koseric. I suppose you know that "Michelin" in 2002, along with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and, together with the VSM, invested in Serbia, with those banks that, in the process of privatisation and transparency of privatisation processes and in general, have a very high view of transition processes. Speaking of which, reports often quoted for this speaker are a draft version of the OECD report, not the European Commission. Otherwise, tomorrow I will share with you a report by the World Bank, the IMF and all relevant institutions on how the privatisation process is going. Let's keep counting. You know, "Gallagey" a few days ago decided to buy 70% of Rumagum's capital, and it seems to me to be the last rescue solution to Rumagum. Otherwise, the company would have gone bankrupt, with no great opportunity to restart production. Then you know that Tarket Somer, the largest European firm for the production of floor coverings, invested in Serbia. You are also familiar with the mention here that Hellenic Sugar has invested in Serbia. Also, Armaco, a multinational corporation, has invested in Serbia. I owe it to one MP, how much "Farmaco" paid for "Health" and what he took over with a social and investment programme with a bank guarantee. Now I'm going to say - 3.5 million dollars for capital, $20 million investments in a five-year period, covered by a bank guarantee and a social programme. Here you can see the concern of employees: $24.76 million for employees of Health. It is therefore all companies that have decided in the meantime to invest their money in Serbia's economy. It is not true that multinational corporations do not come, it is not true that large local national companies from other developed countries do not invest their capital here. I deliberately did not mention other foreign partners, who also belong to a group of multinational companies. Unlike some who have made very black forecasts about the future of transition in Serbia, these world multinational companies have confidence in the country of Serbia, that Serbia is an attractive and highly secure investment destination. Believe me, I trust them much more because they are in this business and they are much more competent to assess how risky the Serbian market is. Also, it has been pointed out several times, and I am very sorry to have to go back on the subject again, that privileged customers exist in privatisation in Serbia. However, apart from finding that there are privileged customers, not one name and last name of those privileged customers here I have not heard, no transaction has been identified where these buyers are privileged. Basically, we've heard one more story about how something happens untransparently in privatization. It is interesting that, apart from one, no other potential buyer who lost in tenders, and also large multinational companies participated, did not send a formal complaint to the tender privatisation process. On the contrary, I'm going to give you a bunch of letters from those same ones, which are probably more in the interest of winning the tender and taking advantage of any possibility of non-transparent implementation of the privatisation process. These same potential buyers who lost in tenders send a letter and thank the implemented extremely transparent, public, without any benefits to individual customers, tender privatisations. That one is the one who lost in the game to buy Sevojno Aluminium Valley. This one, of course, has the right to appeal and has received a reply from the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. Because, gentlemen, when offers are delivered to the Agency by an exact deadline, there is no surprise for potential buyers. A formula is known in advance how these offers will be evaluated. It is precisely known how the transaction price is valued, how the social programme, how the investment programme is valued. So space for some, as we would say, which is what we do, soft, soft criteria for determining customers absolutely do not exist. Whether the process is transparent, whether it's an affair or not, they don't testify to newspapers, because I also heard on TV and read in the paper that hundreds and hundreds of workers of Health in Leskovec protest, and they, behold, in the assembly, unanimously adopt the offer given. Because any normal person will adopt an offer guaranteeing the realization of a 24.76 million social programme. So, transparency is not witnessed by newspapers or TV shows, but whether those who lose in these transparent games have objections. They invest their capital, they find their interest here. If they do not complain about the privatisation process in tenders, then be assured there is no problem with the tender privatisations implemented. What he has, and what I said yesterday, there are those who are so-called. Losers in transition. Who are the losers in the privatization? Losers are incompetent directors, as well as those who know that they will not remain behind privatisation in the positions they are in today. Losers are at last those who still think they can participate politically in economic flows. The government's intention and this ministry is to get the structure of the economy that is dominantly private. I'll give you one piece of information as it is today. Today, when private and social enterprises exist, 58% of total income or GDP creates private economy. So, 42% of the social economy. When compared to the private and social employment rate, 59% employs social economy and 40% (less than 41%) private economy. Who's more efficient? Private business. See how much income per employee in the private economy, income per employee in the social economy, and you will see what is the mechanism, which is the property system more efficient. Because this private property system is more efficient, so it is in the interest to increase as much as possible in transition, to expand the private economy to the existing social economy. No one ever said privatisation would solve all economic problems. It can't solve them, because that army of unemployed who are not over a million, but below 900,000, did not create the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation over the past two years, but rather an army of unemployed was inherited due to poor economic policy in the previous period. I'm not talking about the last 10 years, I've been talking about the last 50 years. This army of unemployed is already working in the gray economy. The pressure of the unemployed isn't as great as many people think it is. Let's face it, there are 250,000 -- 300,000 unemployed who are really unemployed. For them, the problem will not solve privatisation, but new investments and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises. Since it's said here that I'm not in business, here's a concept, a general strategy, in which way this ministry solves economic problems. If someone thought that the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation would be Serbia's chief financier, then it simply failed the market economy test, he fell under the test that the state should in general influence the formation of institutional frameworks for the functioning of effective economic activity. This ministry is not, nor will it ever finance investment activities or short-term business activity, but this ministry finds that we cannot rely on wood fair and liberal economy, to say 50 major systems will solve their problem on their own, in a way that the market economy will do so. Let those who think that the state should not be included in the Kragujevac, better said, go to Kragujevac in March 2001 when the Zastava did not work at all and give them a message - since we will not manage the economy, go ahead and solve your problem. In March, the flag didn't work. Today flag 120 cars a day takes off the tape. Someone's gonna say a little over 200,000 a year. I'll say, an awful lot compared to the average achieved in the last ten years. By the way, Zastava produced far more in the past year than it did in the period when we had no sanctions between 1996 and 1998. The highest level of production was achieved last year. So we find that large systems require special treatment and subsidies in the economy, but not to buy these subsidies social peace, which was a mania earlier, but to use these subsidies in the service of restructuring these large systems. We will only have 20 large systems this year where the restructuring process will be fully completed. There is no corruption in the privatisation process, unless you have information and you say specifically, publicly, this transaction is suspicious. I call on you, as I have called everyone in the press and the entire public, if any case arises, one non-transparent sale without competition, by preventing customers, by not allowing customers to submit tenders, by auctioning within a defined deadline, by the agency, by the ministry doing so will bear the strictest sanctions. There's no such case, and that's why we're talking in general, there's an empty story, and there's no evidence. Please tell me, what was the problem? There were problems in the Reds, but unprovoked to the ministry and the agency, but hence, as many directors of social enterprises would like to remain life-long uncontrollable, to have no owner, to be the bosses in their fronts. I'm sorry, it won't work. There are deadlines for realising privatisation. My message is once again, and this is a message to the public: one is a story, one is general populism, and the other is concrete things and the process that is happening. A lot of people said what was done? It was done exactly as we planned. We said, at the end of 2001, our plan is that in 2002 we have 250 companies at auction and open 70 tender procedures, of which 50 investment tenders. So 280 companies went through the auction process in the first year, in 2002, and out of that 230 companies were successfully privatized. To this day we have 25 successful tenders and as much in the process. We said then, not the privatisation process divided equally in four years. In the first year, institutions are built. You know why institutions are being built: that the story of corruption, of non-transparency, of non-publicity is just an empty story like what we have been hearing here for two days, i.e. that the privatisation process would eventually take place in accordance with the basic principles set out in Article 1 of the Law - the equality of all customers, competition, transparency, the public and finally the public as the ultimate mechanism and the supreme master who determines the value of a company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-27-0.u26778	I thank Mr. Secretary. This is what we've done today's work. We will continue to work tomorrow; according to Article 81(4), I will determine tomorrow as a working day and after the debate on this and the next item will be joined by the vote. Good-bye and good-bye. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please, in order to determine the quorum for work, insert the cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I understand we have a quorum to work with. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Radmilo Misovic, Zaharija Trnavčević, Velimir Simonović, Zoran R. Angelković, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milos Todorovic and Radic Jokovic; (before noon) Dusan Budišin, Bosko Ristić, Goran Ćirić, Biači Anton, Išpanovic Istvan, Juhas Atila, Kasa Jožef, Laslo Torde and Ratimir Svirčević; (later) Gordana Čomić, Borisa Novaković, Ljubisa Markovic, Predrag Stojanović, Mirko Rosic, Branislav Grubački and Stevan Lilić. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PRIVATION LAW (privatization principles)
