ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 48. A proposal for a financial lease law. Before I explain the change, I have to say that there are lasting consequences of the privatisation that has come and that is still under way, and that this is how illegal conditions are created for certain natural persons who have acquired certain capital, and in this way what we are doing now, the adoption of this lease law can be very harmful to our country. The 48th article on which I have invested the amendment is set out in Chapter VII, which says it is a register of financial leases, but in Article 48, the word "financial" is lost. It can be a very serious legal disturbance. I'll state the reasons. Article 48 refers to the fact that data are entered in the register by third parties. Those third parties can be domestic and foreign. I'd stay on the sidelines. Since the legislator of this law, the Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, here, I would like to say that this can have very serious consequences when a third party feels deceived or wants to terminate a financial lease contract, and Article 48 does not mention financial licking but just licking. In order to make things concrete, we can, in the case of a sugar affair, give a plastic picture of the reason why I'm making this amendment. In fact, the European Union has an office to combat embezzlement called OLAF. They're on the right track to find out who they are who exported more than 300,000 tons of sugar, extra sugar, from our country. Of course, by going back to the introduction, we cannot confidently say whether it is "Lutra", "FMP Treid", "Treid Product", but we can confidently say that it has deep ties to the "MK Comer"; for this I have reliable data, which is why the minister and I warn that the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group even when adopting the Privatisation Act pointed to the failures and inconsistencies of the law mentioned, given the selectivity of the subsequent application of the law. For all these reasons, I fear that this Article 48 will also be selective and that the European Union will have great objections to Article 48, because there is no legal basis to call on Chapter VII, which speaks of the register of financial leases, and in Article 48, where third parties are spoken, that word has been deleted. That is why I propose that, for the sake of the Serbian state's reputation, Serbia's economy, the National Assembly's reputation, and V.D. The president of the Republic of Serbia, introduces an amendment, and for closer information, I am prepared to deliver more detailed documents concerning what I could not say in this short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29628	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the legislative break considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29629	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 49 that has two parts. The first part is similar to the previous amendment. We want to define precisely that this is a financial lease, not that the article 49 only speaks about the lease agreement, especially what can be very negatively reflected on this environment that we have in the country, the ambience of this godfather's privatisation that is at work in Serbia. It could be another possibility for various manipulations, when someone needs financial licking or when they need regular licking. The second part of the amendment refers to a more precise definition, because it is obviously a bad translation of this text. In point 3 of the bill, the legislator says: "The lease agreement can provide for the entry of the first member's position to be made by the recipient of the lising". The lising recipient can't make the enrolment. He can apply for registration. So someone mistranslated some written text from some Western democracies. He can be so very interesting. If, in the fight against dictatorial, anti-democracy regimes, Western democracies can use such a law, which would be very applicable to us, because obviously, given that we have received here a report from the board and the other point, that RTS is obviously not able to pass a session of the Serbian Parliament, therefore, cannot be this transparent, as you say, because it is a step back in democratic development, it is clearly an anti-democratic power. It would be a good idea for Western democracy to invest money, buy out RTS equipment, and then lick someone who wants to answer, so that we can transfer these sessions and that we can fertilize the democratic processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29630	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29631	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, at first I will take the opportunity to report on this amendment, to tell you that we are sorry that you left us yesterday, so you have not had the opportunity to plead on our amendments. You've left your associates behind, and we've made some jokes here in the Assembly, which is why we've earned one warning, but it wasn't for Mr. Associates, your young colleagues, I guess, but for the President of the Assembly, who didn't understand the message of "daughter of diamonds, sister of law." We joked at their expense, which we referred to as the chairman, who did not find fit to inform the MPs who were sitting in parliamentary benches and who you left here on your behalf to report to you on the reasons of our amendments, which is her business obligation. It's in favor of that. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, Article 49 defines the obligation to register. I'd like to ask you a question: is the regular licking on the register? If you don't sign up, then they're our amendments, which require that in front of the word "slide" you always sign "financial lease," really meaningful. If a simple lease contract is entered, then it can remain as you predicted. It's not a small thing and it's not irrelevant to this register, especially since a leaser can, since he has a state over the stuff that's the subject of a lease, to sell, and a third party is not in a position to find out without one of these registers that it's under a certain burden, or that this seller is not the owner, but is still the owner of a leaser. As a result, we do not understand how this law will come into force and how you will protect all those third persons if this register is established only as of 1 January 2004. So he's been in front of us all year. There is a possibility of abuse, especially when you asked for the law to go according to an emergency procedure, so a request was subsequently removed to ensure urgency and entered into the regular procedure. You here, with an explanation of one of the amendments to Article 44, have told us that the establishment and functioning of the bodies of the economic register will be arranged. You have also noted when it will be. I believe that at the next assembly session we will have the opportunity to consider the law that regulates this and this stock that you sent to parliament a long time ago, so I don't know why it's not in the package here with this law, because that would be quite logical. That, perhaps, we could have connected, discussed one law and another. Therefore, this amendment follows all of the previous amendments and in order to clarify whether it is entered in the register only for financial leases or for ordinary leases, and Article 2, that the leaser is obliged to enter from Article 1 of this Article within seven days of the day of the conclusion of the lease agreement, talks about the necessity of the protection of a third party, so we have, by one amendment, requested that the time limit for the establishment of this register be shorter, i.e. 1 September of this year. We think it's a perfectly good time to establish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29632	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The same amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the word for the amendment has a People's MP, Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29633	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, along with MP Joco Arsic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 49. It's a bill of law. For the purposes of this Article, the provisions of this Article shall be laid down in the register of lease agreements, any amendments and the addition of the lease agreement, as well as its termination. The position of the 2nd member clearly states that the leaser is obliged to make an entry in the register. In point 3 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following paragraph is added: It is justified to provide compensation to a third security person if he suffers damages because the lease agreement is not entered in the register, as well as his alterations or termination of the contract. From the above, it is clear that the damage caused by the not entering the lease agreement should be compensated by the leaser. Exceptionally, if it is agreed otherwise and if that obligation has been passed on to the recipient of the lease, then it should bear the consequences and make up for the damage. However, after all that has been said, which is quite clear, it remains unclear why the Government, in its position of the fourth member, has suggested that because of the non-registration of the contract in the registry, they carry a solid lender of the lising and the recipient of the lease. It has been predetermined, when the enroller and logically everyone is responsible for their failure, that there is no shared responsibility, and only in paragraph 4. The government prescribes that because of the non-registration of the contract and its changes in the register, the recipient and the leaser are in a solid match. I don't know why he's pulling into the area of responsibility and the other side when the provisions are completely clear. The amendment proposes to remove this illogicality. The amendment makes it clear that the non-registration in the register corresponds to the leaser, in accordance with the position of the 2nd member, and if it is agreed to move that obligation to the lysing recipient, it shall be responsible for that damage. I think it's perfectly logical and clear, everyone for their failures needs to answer and I don't know why the government didn't accept this. I find it logical that the amendment is accepted and adopted for its practical application in practice, because it will have no problem proving who is to blame for not entering the register.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29634	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Excuse me, MP, it's the technique.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that the minister who is authorized to propose a law on financial lising was not present yesterday at the afternoon presentation, because as a person who is at best should have enough positive energy and enough time to dedicate to the largest legislative body, first of all for the reasons why the amendments of the SRS and those which we are currently putting forward are just following the previous amendments and are linked to each other. Since no amendment has passed by all the promoters, it is obvious that the minister may not have the right information about our presentation. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 50, which is the entry in the register, and it reads - the application for the registration of the lease contract in the register contains in particular: 1) the identity of the leaser and the leaser; 2) the precise identification of the leaser; 3) the time limit on which the lease contract is concluded; 4) the signature of the applicant for the registration of the leaser in the register. The data referred to in Article 1(1) shall be entered in the register at the time of submission of applications for registration. The SRS has tried precisely to define that it is a financial lease, so the word "o" should be added to "financial" meaning that it is precisely stressed that it is a financial lease, and we keep insisting that the deadline refers to a period of time, i.e. - time. So it's just a matter of precisely defined terms, because the SRS tried to comply legally with the law that the government was trying to see it, to make it more effective in practice, because obviously, the intention of the SRS was not to change the essence of the law, but to keep the law the way the government predicted it. The government has explained that the amendment is not accepted because it is in Article 2(2). The proposal for a law specified that a term - a lease agreement - is used for the Financial Lising Agreement in the text below. I think it's a much more precise term for financial licking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29636	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have seen from article 44 that the register will be run by a competent organization, determined in accordance with the law. So, not by this law, by some other law, the little letter "z" is here, so we see it's a new law, so we're from the reasoning the government gave on this amendment, and it's about Article 44, we could conclude that it's a single body for economic registers. It will only be formed; what status it will have, we do not know it at this time; it will certainly have in the capacity of a legal person, it will not be the authority of the administration, I suppose; so now it is unclear and not regulated by this law, it may be some of the following, what is the possibility of an appeal if it happens that, regardless of the request for a contract to be entered with all the relevant documentation, all of this as stated under points 1 to 4, that body for business registers simply does not make an entry. If you tell me it's impossible, I'll tell you it's possible. We have such experience, we have recent experience that we are in the MUP, who is in charge of keeping a register of the Association of Citizens, submitted one request, all the necessary documentation; they did not refer us to the need for an update of the documentation, but simply did not register an association called the Defence Committee of Dr Vojislav Seselj. Since it's the authority of the administration, we, of course, complained to the second-degree body, so if we're not satisfied with the decision of the second-degree body, we know that we can lead the administrative dispute, and in the end, we assume that the Supreme Court will decide in accordance with the law. But here we don't know what will happen if this body disobeys its obligation and doesn't. You know, in our country, we have to admit it, there's a complete chaos in the sense that even the legislative authority doesn't know what its powers are, especially the government doesn't know, and then it brings back a trail of steps that is such that no one has any obligation. Yesterday on the Information Committee, we discussed a problem that is evident, which someone does not respect the decision to suspend the state of emergency, so there are still no direct TV transmissions, so MPs, who should know what their powers are, have concluded that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has reconsidered its decision since 29 December 1997. Please, gentlemen of Parliament, you who voted for this must know that our decisions (we are the most legislative body) can only be questioned by the Constitutional Court, we cannot do it ourselves. Congratulations to the MPs who voted in ignorance for it. I am truly sorry that this has happened, and I thank the RTS for taking over the direct transfer of the Assembly session today, respecting this point 3, or the third conclusion of the Committee, that it is recommended to RTS that it respects the existing decision of the National Assembly. I recommend that everyone watch out when they cross the street, the red light is forbidden to cross, the punishment exists, under the Public Traffic Security Act, but there's no sanctions. You know, sanctions are more unnecessary. We have introduced a precedent, and we now only recommend that citizens respect the laws and decisions this body makes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29638	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Finance Committee and the Government have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Just a brief apology to MPs whose names appear on the monitor -- it's a technical problem with an internal communications system here in the Assembly, and probably with regard to the accidental pressing of these discussion buttons, a replica in your parliamentary benches. To inform the MPs who will take the word after the pay phone, the clock does not stop, so that we measure five minutes, that it may not confuse you, since we cannot turn on and off the pay phone. So, the word has a folk MP, Vitomir Plužarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment in front of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to Article 52 of this Law, and it reads: Article 52(1) following the proposal "o" adds the word "financial", and "before 1 January 2004," is replaced by "until the entry into force of this law" and the words "not later than 31 January 2004" are deleted. In point 2. "January 1st 2004" is replaced by "1st of September 2003". "The reason for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure is that it aims to train banking operations and that the World Bank can channel its financial resources towards our country. We Serbian radicals have submitted a dozen amendments, and we have submitted to this last article 52. This proposal is intended to put this law into practice as soon as possible, and the proposer's interest is probably the same. But it's not really like that. There is no proposal for this law to take place in the procedure, or to stand on those legal legs of yours, and that is evident in the explanation of the motionary, regarding this amendment that we have submitted. The proposer's explanation shows that he wants to tie this matter to Article 2 and point 2) where the contract is mentioned, and all of this connects with Article 6, which means he does not have a keen desire for dynamics in the implementation of this law. We Serbian radicals have pointed a lot to you through this law, but you can't even move on those reactions. You can't do anything on your own. For every political step you wait, you wait for a voice from Europe. You probably expect Europe to tell you -- you can play the picture into the ether, the transmissions can start. It's the same with this law. We're ordering you to perform it urgently, and you're attached to your target dates. With this amendment, we want an immediate entry into force of this law. This law is in a set of your reform laws, and it is also linked to the concession law that suffered defeat in this House, and you know the reasons. We also expect it to happen with this law. With this law, the promoter did not understand the essence of this lease, which is logical and normal, because the desired investors in our country have not yet profiled regions and regions where they could invest these funds, and in line with the profits that will be related to the lease. It is not regulated by law when the process of lising is completed, or when the time is up, which steps are then important both for the donor and for the recipient of the lising.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29640	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29641	If this is the law driven by the World Bank, the European Union, I don't know who, then we should follow one basic rule, which is a guarantee of legal certainty. There is no guarantee of legal certainty here, as Article 52 provides that the lease agreements concluded before 1 January 2004, so those that may be completed tomorrow, are entered in the register from the date of application of the registration provisions (i.e. Articles 43 to 51 of this Act) and no later than 31 January 2004. So, it's going to be 31 days, that one month they're going to sign all those financial lease contracts or maybe even a regular lease, that's probably what the minister is going to tell us in his address at the end, whether or not both of them have to sign up in this register. The law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", which does not mean that immediately after the vote in this assembly, as was the custom for years, it will be published. The recent experience is that the Planning Act was published in "The Official Messenger" after 15 days. Meanwhile, there was another session, we passed some other laws. The Telecommunications Act has been published, and the Planning Act has not yet been published. Whoever's responsible, I don't know, someone probably is. Whether it's intentional or not, I don't know, but it follows from that that law can be published on December 31st this year. Then there wouldn't be any problem. But if it is published as God commands and some of the rules that exist in the work of this congregation, then it will likely happen on Wednesday, after the vote, when we complete the discussion on this agenda. Mr. Minister, if the money is already on the border and waiting, and if you count on it to be a financial lease, then why... Don't be alarmed, there we are. I'll listen to you. If the government's intention and expectation of financial licking is going to take place very quickly, that our businessmen will have the opportunity to use it, if there are these free funds both in the country and abroad, then it should not have been a member of 52, but it should have been parallel. I think it doesn't cost the state much, nor did the government have a very big problem, that this body that needs to register, and registration as some lowest administrative act is still necessary just to protect third parties, that in the package with this law, it solves it. In that sense, our amendment was given to correct that mistake, or perhaps you weren't aware of the problems that could arise, counting on everyone to work in accordance with the law. A moment ago, by explaining the previous amendment, I said that there are such cases, where many who are bound by law to obey their obligation. Then we find ourselves in a stalemate position and then we transfer everything to the policy domain and we say, this is incompetent, all of this will be resolved after some of the next choices, and in the meantime, the responsibility for non-execution of the law implies and abuse, implies many other crimes that are provided for by criminal law, so we need to know that none of them can be amnestied.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29642	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since the draft law has been reviewed in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to item two of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF CONCESSIONS (specificities) You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Bojan Kostreš; joint MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukić; Vjerica Radeta; Veroljub Arsic; Milorad Mirčić; Natasa Jovanovic; Stevan Kesejić; Vitomir Plužarevic; Zoran Krasic; Dragoljub Stamenković; Dragan Ljubojević; Branislav Blažić; Slobodan Janjic; Branislav Vakić; Milovan Radovanović; Goran Cvetanovic; Dragan Colić, Srboljub Živanovic; Zlatan Jovanovic; Ljubomir Kragović; Lazar Marjanski; Dragan Pavlović; joint MPs Dusan Cvetović and Miomir Ilic; joint MPs Rajko Baralić and Hrnislav Perić; joint MPs; Ljubomir Kražović, joint MPs; Ljubomir Kražić and Republika Mušič and Republika Radović. You have received a report from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the proposal for a concession law has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29643	Dear Chairman, today's session has been launched with an hour and a half delay due to a lack of quorum. Now it is obvious that there are no more than 40 to 50 MPs in the hall and I ask you, in accordance with Article 82(2), to determine the quorum, and as I see that you will not be able to do so through the electronic system, then, in accordance with that same article, and I think that's attitude 5, to do so by counting the Members of Parliament. To those who resent opposition MPs who may not be in the O.R. right now, I must say we didn't even vote for this government. Our only task is... (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: "To grumble all day long." )......................................................................................................... And otherwise all the political parties that are in the opposition, since when there is political pluralism, are to find ways, and that is legitimate ways, and this is one of those ways, to bring the government down. Therefore, we will do everything we can to ensure that you do not have the opportunity to continue working and that parliament is in a crisis, that elections must be discussed. Don't put that on our soul. It is quite normal in all countries where there is a multi-party system, where it is going to regular elections and where different political parties participate in political life. (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: there are no lunatics there, in those countries. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29644	The word has been made by the MP Sinisa Mitrovic, a proposal by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29645	Dear Mrs. Komic, I'm advocating Article 217. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads: "The MP who is on permanent duty in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to attend the session when determining the quorum, as well as during the session. The Members of the People of the 1st Chamber, who are unwarranted when determining the quorum or during work at the National Assembly session, will be deprived of the status of Members of the Parliament at permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia."
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29646	I thank the quotes of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the deputies of Serbian Radical Party Groups and DOS - Serbia's Reform. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to call their MPs so that I may invite the service to determine the quorum by counting. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to provide me with a list of Members of the National Assembly at regular work in the National Assembly and a list of MPs who are on permanent work in the National Assembly, and for today’s working day, the National Assembly session has justified their absence. I am asking only the representatives of the parliamentary groups to invite the MPs in the Assembly building to determine the quorum, because the bell that would otherwise include our internal electronic communications system being fully operational cannot, at the moment, be able to call the service to determine the quorum. The elemental technical culture of the chairman, with the help of the technical service, has re-functioned the electronic communications system. I ask the MPs to determine if there is a quorum for work. I ask the Assembly’s service to provide me with a list of quorums today at 12.20, so that we can compare them with the list of Members of Parliament at regular work in the Assembly and those who have justified their absence. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29647	The President-in-Office, given that other cards are being misused in the Assembly, and the example for that is, here, the third row, look on the screen here on the left, please, in accordance with Article 82 paragraph 5 and 6 provide a list of present Members of Parliament, so let's see whose card he used. You use everything at your disposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure you have brought. Then be consistent with this, and apply the Rules of Procedure and to those who abuse other people's cards, or to those MPs who leave their cards in MPs' units, so that others may abuse them, even though they are bound by the Rules of Procedure to carry them with them when they leave the room.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29648	I'm asking the Service to deliver two copies of the list at the same time. One delivered to me at the previous request, and another, which will be delivered to MP Gordani Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. We're continuing our work. Member of the 1st and Amendment submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29649	With this amendment, I had no intention of helping the government, as the legislator of this law. I don't want to help the government because I don't trust the Serbian government and I don't appreciate it. The aim of my amendment is to at least preserve the legal order of the Serbian state with these legal proposals. In these two and a half years, the government has not convinced me, by any chance, that I have reason to trust her. So I could trust a government that, along with the president of the Assembly and the director of RTS, banned direct transfers from this room. Or to trust the government that adapted this proposal to the concession laws, and we were probably late today, still adapting it to the wishes and demands of the godfather Nenada Chanka. Besides not believing, I'm very afraid of applying concession laws. I fear what this government will do with the economic and natural resources of the state of Serbia, under which conditions, who and how it will betray everything that can be betrayed. What is it that will remain for Serbia and Serbia's citizens? The question already asked two days ago by a minister here on behalf of the government was why the government has not applied the concession law for these two and a half years, and the concession law has been in place since 1997. Otherwise, not to be confused, the SRS programme is for concessions, but for concessions in a properly done manner and with some government in which Serbian citizens trust. They certainly don't have one, and if you don't believe me, call the election and you'll see. As far as the amendment that I have submitted to Article 1, the amendment is purely legal. The explanation she wrote, I suppose, some service in the government is absolutely not responding to the essence of my amendment, and at the very least it's unserious. The amendment regulates the subject matter of this law more precisely, and through the previous law, we have several times suggested to you that you do not use the term - deadline, but time - in these laws. You obviously don't get it. I know it's a term of use, but it's a legal term. If the law provides for a deadline, I don't know, to file a complaint, a complaint, etc., then that deadline cannot be negotiated. It's an overpassing deadline. That deadline just has to be applied. For that reason, I suggested that instead of a term -- a term, you use a term -- a time, a time period, it's the only legal term possible for a contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29650	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 3 to which the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 3. Proposal for a concession law. The reason for the submission of this amendment is purely technical, as I am Article 3(1) is not legally agreed. In paragraph 1, the first sentence reads this - concession, within the meaning of this law, is the right to use natural wealth, good in the general use or exercise of activity of general interest. This "or the exercise of activity of general interest" does not mean any right given to the beneficiary of the concession. With my amendment, I asked that the word "right" be added after the ally, so that Article 3 would read, in accordance with my amendment - concessions, in the sense of this law, is the right to use natural wealth, good in general use or the right to exercise a common interest. I don't see why the government hasn't even considered my amendment on this matter. In the government's explanation, I've been given some kind of an explanation, so they're calling for Article 1 that regulates the second part of my amendment. That is to replace the third word "in the agreed time" with the words "after the time agreed". All over the world, it is in practice that the concession contract provides for an item to be returned to its owner after the contracted time. Now you're trying to get a signed deadline into the contract. The only explanation is that this term of time that we want to use is about the bonding law. The very essence is, as my colleague, Verica Radeta, said, that the deadlines for appeals and writings, and deadlines cannot be negotiated, but are foreseen by law, and time is something that can be negotiated and delayed or adjusted. Just such an explanation, incorrectly, and in any way to explain the non-acceptability of the SRS amendment, may lie in the fact that you apply the laws as it suits you and invoke laws when it suits you. The evidence is that, for example, Minister Pitic said that we should throw the terminology out of socialist self-management, and now he's forcing us to use that same terminology in the bill. I believe that these arguments in the bill were written by his assistants who, using their experience in the age of socialist self-management, were only able as members of the SCOJ to provide such an inaccurate and inadequate explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29652	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 82(2), I am giving notice to the National Assembly to schedule a session of the Administrative Board today at 1400 hours, that at the sitting - together with the accompanying list of MPs, 103 of them on permanent work and the list of records of the quorum determination, and on the basis of Articles 217, 1 and 2, along with an official list submitted to the Secretary of the Assembly on justifiable absences - the Administrative Committee shall declare the respect or violation of the Rules of Procedure, as well as to declare, in the light of the statements and the facts of the infringement of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, issued by Parliament of the People, Gordana Pop-Lazic. (Bosko Ristic, from the post: I would ask that the Committee's session be at 1600 hours, given that there will be some other committees and therefore more obligations. ) We show tolerance and move the Committee's session to 16.00 hours, as proposed by the MPs. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29653	This has now caused uncertainty among us Serbian Radical Party MPs -- it is obvious that you are punishing us. You've tried everything, and now let's see how you do this. However, the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party sets out Article 4 in the part where the proposer says the concession can be given to persons who meet the conditions laid down by this law, and we suggest that part of the sentence that says "which meet the conditions foreseen" be "changes and reads "under the conditions and in the manner set out in this law". There may be no fundamental difference, but precision is very important and important for such drafts of the law; this is what we specify and give a clearer text. In fact, it should be very careful when it comes to defining, especially the part where we heard that concessions in the tender can be obtained, unlike previous laws, if only one participant is registered. You, gentlemen, are going a step further; in the Privatisation Act you promoted a tender, you claimed it would be sound competition, that it would make a profit for the state, despite the warning and appeal of Serbian radicals that it was not and that things did not stand the way you imagine, that there are also participants in the tender, in the end in large tenders, and in this case for concessions, a deal between large companies. So, if we are not precise and if we have not clearly defined the legal provisions, and we Serbian radicals want to do so through the amendments, as the colleague said - it is a technical correction, we are not engaged in the essence, in the essence of the law, but we are giving technical corrections that tomorrow, if there is a misunderstanding, especially when it comes to participation in the competition or tender, everything is clearer to obtain concessions. However, it is not worth saying to you, as our people says - it is not worth speaking deafly and winking to the dead, as it has also proved in the Privatisation Act; it has proved that in addition to what you have prepared in advance through the legal acts for any participants in the privatisation process, you have made it possible for the present owners to come under even more favourable conditions to the wealth of this country. Especially here, when it comes to natural wealth, you don't need to hide anything, you can see the clear intention and the great influence of the current cement owners. With their capital, they have succeeded what we Serbian radicals couldn't, nor can we while you are in power, with legal acts, legal proposals called amendments. So, they bribed you, they said there would be a tender, that there would be a tender to participate one, that it would be necessary to unaccount the law as incorrectly as possible so that tomorrow would be able to interpret its provisions multiplely. And who will solve the problems that will eventually arise, because of the indecision and inaccuracy of the law? Those who will come to power after you will be resolved, which will not be for long, it will be soon, because it is obvious that your time has run out, and woe to whoever solves the problems behind you, not only because of your boast, but also because of your ignorance when you propose and make laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29654	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29655	Before I begin to explain the amendment, I'd like to have a nice Miss Angelkovic who just finished breakfast at this time, it's a little late, maybe it's a snack. Madam President, if you really stick to the Rules of Procedure, get your MPs and MPs first, because, behold, the chairman of your party's Executive Board...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29656	People's MPs, I take care of all MPs of the National Assembly, all MPs are my messengers, and I take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure so that it applies equally to all. I make no difference, no matter who the political party or political group belonged to. Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29657	Now it's clear to me why the camera's gone, you're no longer for painting, not for listening, but for painting. Please do not abuse the Service of the National Assembly, the Service of the National Assembly serves to help all MPs to keep this body functioning according to the law. Well, if you want to share some party flyers, as you've now shared, and to warn of some rights, first respect the rights, and then the activists of the parties, the MPs, let them share it, not the Service of the National Assembly. That's inappropriate. We share the paper ourselves. The amendment, gentlemen, is very meaningful. It may seem more accurate to you what you have stated in the law, but it is not, and I will tell you why: it cannot be a concession to a potential participant. I know that's how you're gonna do it, and that's why you don't want the agency, you want a lobby in the government, which will determine who's going to be the concessionist and who's going to be the concessionist. We need to bind to the objective state of concession, or conditions for giving concessions, rather than to a potential participant, or a concession bidder. And because of that, it's much more precise what we've suggested -- it doesn't change the essence of things, apparently, and in fact, how it gets into the essence. It's the very style of a legal provision, but only at first sight can it look like that. If you carefully read that the concession can be given to persons who meet the conditions laid down in this law, it is quite logical to amend it and to say "under the conditions and in the manner laid down by this law". It means "under conditions" to everyone alike. It's the law that regulates the conditions. Under the law, a concession act is adopted. It says here what he needs to have in later terms, what a public tender should look like and everything. And this is practically too high. It's enough to be "in a way established by this law" so that some unwanted situations don't happen here because of the lack of clarity of legal norms.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29658	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 5, to which the amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendmentr, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, perhaps someone has not paid attention, but so far it has not happened to us, under any bill of law (sir is not responsible for this, but I believe, nor has Minister Pitic, it is the service involved) that the government's report, which we do not accept because almost all the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, which states that the amendments in the National Assembly have submitted: the MP group of the Party of Serbian Unity, the parliamentary group of the Serbian Radical Party, the SPS, etc. That's not true at all. We are not engaged in writing any books, but every MP of the Serbian Radical Party, and as far as I can see other parliamentary groups have the same method of action, the individual writes the amendment, signed it by name and last name, but he is an MP from the parliamentary group and so on. I took it to review the government's report. I wanted to consult with a colleague about his amendment. We've seen that there's no name or name at all. For the government, there must be both parliamentary groups and each MP, who bears responsibility for the written and spoken word and for what he proposes, and proposes to change laws in one country. So much for that. It would be good, therefore, if Madam Secretary and the chairman were to pay attention to this and that future committees would not accept such reports from the government, where MPs are simply grouped into MPs, which is true, because they are from them, but it is not right that their names are not standing, because each of us has tried to propose a solution to the ruling coalition to a certain member of the law, as best as possible. I was hoping during this period, not because I thought something had happened positively in the ruling coalition, but because of the citizens of Serbia, because of the health workers, that you would give up this idea contained in Article 5, which I am asking for to change, and that you would realize that it is not possible for health institutions to be the subject of concession. This is because this provision, that is, the intention and the idea of Article 5. The law on concessions in part and contrary to the current constitution, which says absolutely all citizens of Serbia are guaranteed health care. A hypothetical question arises - if there are concessions for health institutions, or if the state as a concession, because of its inability to finance this very important area in our society itself, it starts to give concessions in 80 or 90% of cases, and this comes into the hands of the private, which will be faced by citizens who are and how can they be left out because of the inability to achieve basic health care? Then you'll say, yes, we've found ourselves in a situation where there's no money, that it's all costing. Gentlemen, I ask you, and above all, it is directed to the ruling DOS, the Minister of Health and Mr Pitic, where the money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which was allocated during 2003 for this purpose. God forbid any of you or family member find himself in such a difficult time to provide the basic means of primary health care without talking about, God forbid, serious diseases; many doctors and experts from that area are sitting in this room, imagine what that will look like. Now you're telling us you're resorting to this method because the state doesn't have enough resources. How much our citizens are burdened with Djelic's tax policy, the separation for pension, health and social insurance, that it is really inappropriate, and in contrast with one of our constitution's members, that at first it began to give in concessions of natural resources, so it spread to traffic and to communal infrastructure. But go so far as to give the possibility that this is happening for health care institutions not to be humane but is monstrous to citizens who seek basic health care without talking about those who are and how, due to severe illness, this unfortunate time, they need medical attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29660	National MP Natasa Jovanovic is quite right about the remarks she made. The secretary will speak for me to the government. The only thing I can ask is, do you want the part of the stenogram you pointed to as a failure to be part of that letter after your consent? Does any other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29661	The government's brother-in-law's argument on the very basis of the bill is that I went out for a pay phone to complete Ms. Jovanovic's presentation. In line with the draft law, the Government says the proposal sets out a list of actions that may be subject to concession. In doing so, two facts are important. First of all, it's a provision of a dissent rather than an imperative character. So he doesn't have to. But just because it doesn't have to, we know who's making the decision on whether to give a concession and we have justifiable doubt and fear that in certain areas you can give a concession. That's why we think we need to protect the health insurance system, which is still the way it is; it can change, it's definitely going to change, we don't know who's going to change it, because there are different views on it. When we pass one law, we have a situation that rules at the moment. You're saying they'll decide in accordance with the relevant circumstances of each particular case and that the list of actions is just an edgeempli causa. That's what we're worried about, and you don't say in an explanation, which would be logical to say -- we think that in this area we should give concessions for that, that and that. So to convince us that it's necessary to give concessions in these 16 areas. If there are 20, it doesn't matter, or you narrow down that circle, but you have to have arguments as to why in certain areas you think concessions should be given. In your arguments, you explain only the order, without intent to convince the MPs, or the National Assembly that you are right, and that we can see what your intentions are. Secondly, as far as point 5 is concerned, you, in your explanation for the rejection of the amendment, say that the network is already contained in the concept of the facility. But that's absolutely not true. Point 5 refers specifically to the construction, maintenance and use of air traffic facilities, equipment and airports or their reconstruction, modernisation, maintenance and use. Now, one is infrastructure, the other is network. Just a moment, please, to find this explanation of yours. Point 7), I apologize - building, maintaining and using telecommunications facilities or their reconstruction, modernisation, maintenance and use. Is the building or the plant, as it is already called in the area of telecommunications, what could be called an object, the same as the network? It's not. A network without an object cannot function, as an object without a network means nothing. The network, it's an infrastructure, an installation that connects users, whether it's underground, underground or how it's already going in this area. So it was necessary to put a network in here and it's not true that the concept of the network was covered by the concept of telecommunications facilities; it could be for me as a layman for telecommunications to look like that, but we almost had the Telecommunications Act, so a little termology got closer to us, we had to get into it, and that's why we gave this amendment. To go back to this part of the amendment relating to point 12 -- we have nothing against giving concessions to build facilities that provide health services, but to use health institutions, I simply can't imagine what would happen in this country if some crazy government decided that our stationary institutions would be under concession. Who in this country could stand to pay? Whoever took the concession has one single goal, and that's the market one, to make some money; so then I can imagine what the prices of those services would be, like in a five-star hotel, that's something normal. So we have to take care of the health care system, the payability of our citizens, if we're interested in preserving health and the nation. If we're not interested, if we gave this building a concession, maybe that would be best.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29662	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) National MP Stevan Kesejić submitted an amendment with an amendment to the title above article 6 and to Article 6. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The law on concessions relating to the duration of concessions. This is, in fact, the consequence of the previous amendments, first of all, the amendment to Article 1 that we heard from the People's MP Verica Radeta, but I would just like to explain a little bit more why the SRS parliamentary group considers the term to be inappropriate as regards the legal system. He is not in the spirit of the legal system and this termology - the deadline is used in the laws. The deadline is something determined by law and cannot be negotiated. When something is negotiated, then words are applied -- time period, time, etc. However, in practice we had before this law the granting of concessions or a concession to the use of certain natural resources of our country. One of these is giving to the use of forests and hunting grounds. This was done by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management who did not respect already established standards of the time period, which the previous government had put to use for certain users. It is a specific case, the Mostonga Hunting Association of Odzak, which has had time to use this natural wealth for 10 years, meaning from 1995 to 2005. In 2001, the minister brings a new solution to the King's quail, a co-owner from Italy, assigns the same area to use. So, in this case, the time period would have to be more appropriate, because it is a time period that has received a specific subject for using natural resources. However, the deadline can be used, except in legal terms, in this case, for example, when the minister tells hunters who came from Italy -- you have time to kill all the singing birds this night, because tomorrow you will be caught. And that's the same deadline, but in this case, the concession law must respect a strict termology that is suitable for this law and this kind of business of crucial interest to our economy and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29664	Is there more applications for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and Miomir Ilic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29665	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, the John Doe of First Order, respected by my Leskians and citizens of southern Serbia, on many of your enquiries these days about where I am and what is happening with the Assembly, I must inform you, the minutes, which I hope will succeed in, through TV Leskovac and our words made public to you, that by the will of the President of the Assembly and acting as President of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Natasa Micic, the state of emergency was lifted in the country, but not lifted when it comes to television transmissions. It was not abolished, although yesterday the Committee on Culture and Information requested that the high flow of socialist rule from 1997... (President: Please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... By adopting a transfer, it brings before you, it doesn't exist today. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, along with my colleague Ilic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a concession law. With the amendment submitted, we have proposed that two new positions be added in Article 6 behind Article 3. In paragraph 4, we propose not to include in the period of the concession the time it takes to carry out preparatory actions for the construction of the facility, i.e. to start a concession of activity. In paragraph 5, the duration of the preparatory actions is proposed by a contract. The text of the amendment itself seems to speak clearly enough for itself and there is little reason not to accept it. You know that this and a similar amendment was in the last debate about this law, but that Mr. Pitic did not accept it. The new proposal for this amendment, be sure, is not for formal reasons, but we also want to make new arguments for accepting this amendment. We think that the legal provision of Article 6, as complemented, would only draw concessionaries even more, because it would, practically, allow them, conditionally speaking, for a long time to use the carriage. We believe that it is necessary to make it clear that the duration of the concession does not include the time needed to carry out preparatory works for the construction of buildings, and this primarily refers to large concessions, opening or reconstruction of mines, for example, such as "Lece" in the area of Leskovec, reconstruction of refineries and refinery capacities, and especially construction and exploitation of pipelines. I note this especially because at meetings last month, the energy minister on committees in the Serbian Parliament made it clear to us in southern Serbia that the extension of the pipeline in southern Serbia, south of Nis to Presevo, is not a speech. If conditions were created to build a pipeline from Nis to Presevo the time of design and construction are not included at the time of concession, it is very possible to find someone who has this interest, knowing that it is a job that cannot be completed in two or perhaps years, only design and execution. It's probably a serious investor. Interests in the construction of this pipeline are certainly multiple, from protecting the environment to both Leskovac and southern Serbia getting the cheapest energy. We believe that such additions to article 6, we can create more seriously the interests of the concessionaires to participate in southern Serbia. Of course, in order for the concessionary not to delay work indefinitely, we also suggested that the duration of the preparatory work be determined exactly in the contract. We think that this regulation in the contract should also be in the tender for concession concessions, which would result in a lot. In the end, let me just say - the explanation they gave us, and I believe that Mr Pitic did not even read it, his professional services, to this extent, is inadequate that it is simply unnecessary to comment on it. The fact that precise deadlines, etc. are not determined. It is also clear that if you are reading the 3rd position of Article 6 and if you are reading the argument that the same thing that we have suggested is true for the 3rd position of this member, so I think you should consider eventually accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29666	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29667	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted the amendment, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, to article 7. Proposal for a concession law. In Article 7 paragraph 2, the word "Proposal" is replaced by the words "Through the ministry of the position of the first member of the proposal". In paragraph 3, the "and 2" is deleted. In Section 4, the word "frameline" is replaced by the word "frame time". Paragraph 5 is amended and reads as follows: "The justification for granting a concession for the submission of a concession is notified by the Government to the applicant and the interested persons and bodies who gave the initiative no later than four months after the date of submission of the proposal". In heading 6 after 10), the "and 14" is added. In the 7th sentence of "about the attitude of the occasion" they are replaced by the words "about justification". After Article 7, a new attitude 8 is added, which reads: "The government's notices of heading 5 of this article and the National Assembly of the 7th of this article are published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The amendment recognises that only the competent ministry is an authorised promoter and regulates communication with the beneficiaries of the concession initiative and at the same time provides the public with this part of the procedure. In addition, the amendment also makes it possible for water exploitation to represent the strategic importance of the Republic of Serbia and that it must have the position of the National Assembly, not that government representatives are visiting our origins and their presence in the area. The reasons for the adoption of this law are the same as in previous laws: legal certainty of concessions should be ensured. The proposal is justified. However, the promoter has neither created an ambience nor funds for this area. The concessionaries are people of a rich rating. They want to have security, and how do they implement when you as Democrats no longer want TV transmissions to be transparent; how can a concessionary be sure of you and your laws. That's a little impossible already. They know that there will be discrimination, and that is why this law is questionable. There's no game here. What a game, when you and European sugar go through the red zone. They gave you everything, and you abuse everything. Do you know that's transparent, too? This law is likely to drive out clean and do business in the regions. It's already been felt by the percentages that have been corrected today, about this law. He's the basis for commenting on who more to belong to than this cake. The minister of this law has failed a correctional exam and is laying it again before this parliament today. It is obvious that the laws are written to us by ministry officials, not by legal experts, such as professors, doctors of legal science, not by international comparative law, nor by our Institute of Comparative Law. Such bad laws are easy to do in practice, which is inevitable if such a law is passed. Someone will benefit, and at least the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29668	Just short information, before I give a word to the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic, as the second time is an objection to direct transmission. I repeat, the National Assembly is open for direct transmission. There is a decision that was made on 29 December 1997, and I, in accordance with the Committee's conclusions and in accordance with our interest to be available to the public, have sent a letter to all the media in which I call them that we are open to the public and to direct transmission. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29669	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Chairman, thank you for informing us about this. You've imposed a state of emergency, you're in charge of returning everything to normal after the state of emergency has been lifted. You obviously don't have any political power or function that allows you to do this, but it's already a DOS problem that needs to be dealt with whether it wants anarchy in society or whether it wants to build the institutions of the system, such as the president of the state, a legitimate parliament, that everyone respects the laws, or we all... (President: Please respect the Rules of Procedure for a start and stick to the agenda theme. )......................................................................................................... in the last member of every law to write in the future that we recommend that citizens respect the law? This is in line with this decision taken yesterday by the Information Committee. As regards the amendment to Article 7 to the law which has fallen in parliament at the time, the paper is right here in Article 7(2) where it is now foreseen that the proposal to grant concessions to the Government may also be submitted by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province when the subject of the concession is located on the territory of the province, as well as by the local self-government unit assembly on whose territory the subject of the concession is. In our view, this is really excessive, given that the decision to grant a concession, which is provided for in Article 9, i.e. the concession act is adopted by the Government and is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia. You probably expect many, even citizens, to propose concessions for certain goods. That's what I'm seeing from this item 4 where the parentheses contain what has to be submitted as a proposal, so it says "the name of the company, the personal name, the proof of registration". In my opinion, the concession doesn't make sense, and it would be really funny if I were writing to the government right now, and I'm saying that we should give a concession at the Vruca spa and that the government should decide on such unsuspecting proposals. Nor should it appear here that there is a possibility that natural persons are doing it, nor does an autonomous province have anything to do with it, nor does local self-government have anything to do with it, because it cannot affect the decision afterwards, except in a way called lobbying in the government. So it can, and if you count on how many municipalities you're in power, it's the current state and it's going to change already in the fall. Since September, it's all been going differently. Therefore, do not bring such laws to appear to give some greater authority to local self-government under the cloak of some decentralisation, or to an autonomous province, even though Canak is meeting, and such standards to allegedly justify what he did not vote for the law last time, and he will probably vote now, because in any case, this 30% will satisfy him, counting on concessions and how to give. I believe it will be given. What we'll see, but these are resources that can be destroyed and that can be completely exhausted in these 30 years, how much it is to give the concession. And, of course, we believe that this government, which can only harm the state, will not long be in a position to give these concessions. And aside from the fact that the law wasn't necessary at all, which could have been possible, if you had some different concept, if you thought this agency was too high, that it was going in a form of change and supplement, and not to boast that you had passed some new law that is essentially not. We believe that the Assembly should not interfere at all in this decision-making business, although, when you have predicted it here, we have asked it to be in the section relating to Article 14. - the use of thermal sources for health and production purposes, because we think it will be very interesting for future concessionaries. If parliament already decides on some of these areas in which concessions will be given, we believe that this area is significant, but I repeat, we have a strict division of government in the state to be respected. Otherwise, there is no state, no government, no benefit to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29670	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29671	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, by proving the co-operation and constructiveness of the Party of Serbian Unity, and by respecting your time, exceptional attention and patience, I will not explain the amendments submitted by the Soviet Union to this law. If you are interested, you can read the explanation from the stenographic notes, because we gave the reasons for the same amendments in February of this year. I hope you will answer this gesture of our attention to you gentlemen by supporting our amendments on the day set for the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29672	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29673	The subject matter of this law should be that the Republic of Serbia define its will and that the law prescribes the conditions for this will of the Republic of Serbia to grant the right that only it has in this space, to have someone else do with the appropriate compensation. Of course, the promoter missed the topic with the whole concept of the law, and this is seen in the provision of Article 8 where practically this second stage of the concession process begins. The first stage was a proposal to give a concession, and then after a positive position begins this second phase, and this is a proposal for the adoption of a concession act. I don't want to comment on what the Government has answered about this amendment, but anyone who reads Article 8's point of view with great effort can only realize that it is not clear to him what the promoter wrote. Paragraph 2 and Article 8 is not necessary and must not stand in this law, for the simple reason that neither the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is authorized by law to entrust something to an autonomous province and units of local self-government, entrusts something that is in the sole jurisdiction of the Government, as the holder of the rights of use and management, as the one exercising property rights on behalf of the Republic. That's the fundamental problem of this law. In that trust business, you've gone a long way. You're forcing the Parliament to directly violate the Constitution. That's the problem of the whole law and especially this member's problem. We suggest that some legal and technical corrections be carried out in attitude 4. Of course, you couldn't even figure it out, that it was necessary and that it needed to be done. In particular, we wanted to draw your attention to a part of the proposal regarding the justification of the duration of the concession. Why? No matter what concession system it is, the time of use of a particular concession could ruin all the investments in question. Technology's progressing. If you said the concession could take up to 30 years, then you realize that after five or ten years, there are new technologies that go beyond some solutions. The biggest problem with this article is that you entrusted incompetent people with the job of creating a proposal, where they should practically suggest to the government that they define the will of the state. Can you imagine an undertaking of communal activity to define the will of the state and conclude a concession agreement with a stranger? That's impossible. Neither in Belgrade nor in these institutes there are experts who would know how to do this job. You're forcing someone in Black Treva to make a proposal for the government and then the government will post a public tender, assess justification, benefit, etc. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to point 6 of the final attitude. You're just the one who got the offer to regulate the price. If you continue to represent the view that even performing health services can be subject to concessions, then you had to say that in this act at least some basics are given, some criteria that determine the price, because the state has an obligation to have some rights and some human freedoms guaranteed, especially in the field of health. See in the Constitution what is said in the area of health, which are the obligations of the state. The price is an integral part of doing some work and affects our citizens' standards directly. Earlier, we returned several concession ideas, Malten, to the starting point precisely because in terms of price, there was a jam, as in concessions, a man wants to invest as little as possible and to make as much profit as possible. We can't let a new monopoly be made through the concession.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29674	Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP of the People, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29675	In line with a member of the Rules of Procedure under which the President of the Assembly is obliged to take care of the decisions of this assembly, I would ask the question - did the President of the Assembly, in accordance with Parliament's decision of 29 December 1997, and the conclusion of the Committee on Culture and Information, send a letter to RTS to continue direct TV transmissions? So, here we are not talking about the notification of other media that are in the mood to put their technique at the disposal of citizens and directly transfer the session of the Assembly, but we are talking about who, by decision of this assembly, is obliged to directly transfer the meetings of the Assembly, according to the conclusion of the Committee on Culture and Information from yesterday's meeting. Are you like the President of the Assembly, who is obliged to take care of the decisions of this assembly regarding her work, have done so?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29676	I've already given you one piece of information, you haven't been present, but I can see that you've been informed and that someone told you that I did give you some information. So I sent a letter to both RTS and all the other media, you'll agree as a lawyer that anyone who can do less can, so we're open to direct transmission and all other aspects of information, because we think we need to be available to the public. I have also called on RTS and all other media to, in accordance with the decision that has been made, carry out their part of the work that is needed for citizens as well. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the scene: just one question. ) Well, I don't know, the matter of the Rules of Procedure could be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask MP Slobodan Janjic to take his place. I'm waiting for order, to ask a question. You are not the head of the parliamentary group, please take your place. Yeah, the bosses and that when I call them, I do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29678	Since yesterday's conclusions are that the decision of this assembly is not about all other media, but about RTS and that we have a different attitude towards RTS than about some local private television or municipal television. So, not an invitation stemming from a second conclusion from yesterday's committee, where it is said to make a public call to all radios and TV stations in Serbia who want to take over, audio, a video signal for the National Assembly's session. So, not that. We would like to know if, in line with the third conclusion, the Committee recommends that RTS respect for the existing National Assembly Decision on Direct TV transmissions, you sent one such letter, as the director of RTS Mr. Churchenjakov said that he would only do so after receiving requests or letters from the Serbian Parliament. He's looking for paper, like he said, to make direct transfers. So, did you, in accordance with this conclusion and decision, direct the letter of the Church to continue, after the suspension of the state of emergency, with direct TV transmissions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29679	Yeah, I'm on it. Please, you'll hear it on the media, I've sent it to the media. You can have it, it's not a problem. It's just, I've been on my way, and I've called on a decision that exists in the National Assembly, which I've already talked about, so since December 29th, when 178 MPs voted and based on which direct transmission was carried out. Also, both the Assembly and the media must respect the laws that have been passed. So the decision is on them, since in the Law on Broadcasting Council, unlike in 1997 when the National Assembly was the founder of RTS, it is no longer such a situation. It was a time when media could be ordered to do or not to do something, but now it is a time when through dialogue, because of the interests of the National Assembly, and thus the citizens, this way comes to some of the desired goals. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29680	Dear colleagues, I have just received information, I want to cheer you up, this call from the president of the National Assembly has gone to the ether and Radio Baraje is conveying directly the session of the Assembly. This is really getting ridiculous. On behalf of the Government for the refusal of amendments to Article 8. The bill that we are trying to amend in an amendment, among other things, is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that we feel justified that the concession initiative can be submitted to the competent ministry... Excuse me, therefore - there is no reason to exclude the possibility that units of local self-government are preparing a proposal for a concession act when it comes to the construction, maintenance and use of objects intended to carry out municipal activities. Starting from the principle of economicity and efficiency in the work of the Authority, it is necessary to disburse the Government of those tasks for which its active involvement is not required. I think the government should be charged maximum. She can't even do what she says in the Government Act and the Ministry Act, she's too busy. In the meantime, she formed one ten agencies. She doesn't need an agency here, which would be normal, given this explanation, if she wants to be effective, if she wants to dissipate, then form an agency and say, "You're now doing the rules prescribed by law." No, she's forming agencies where it's marginal, where she doesn't want to interfere. Where the money is and where she wants to get involved, she doesn't want the agency to decide for herself. Indeed, it is an amazing position of the 2nd member, where it is explicitly said that the proposal for the adoption of a concession act may be prepared in the AP territory by the competent authority of the AP. It is said if it is a concession for research and exploitation of all kinds of mineral raw materials. It's outrageous that as a general legal standard here one, which is in law, is written like this, because it's obvious to count on what the AP has. I don't know what mineral raw materials there is; there's no coal; there's no mineral raw material; there's no oil, there's no oil, and there's no mineral raw material. What's the Duke got? I guess you of Vojvodina know better, so you'll probably go out for a pay phone to tell me what Canak's counting on, so now just for those mineral raw materials, maybe something like we have here on Avali, avalite, maybe there's something on the French mountain, I really don't know. The sea is long gone, no more Pannonian sea. There isn't? Okay. I don't know what that's about, or someone's saying something in an explanation. I guess we should know what you meant by this. Why only for concessions for research and exploitation of all kinds of mineral raw materials? You suspect there might be something. Any sea, so who knows what's in there right now. You've made a deal, someone tipped you off and recorded from those Avaxes that there's something there, and you have to put it in law now, because only Canak has to give it in concession, not the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29681	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic together submitted the 9th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29682	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment does not change the essence of the law, but we believe that adequate words should be used when a law is written to be, as I said yesterday, more legible and understandable. It is the content of the concession act. In point 2) stands - the rocking of the concession. We think it's much better to say "time to which the concession takes place", not "rock", because the word "rock" is used in a different sense, for example: within 10 days to finish this and that job, within 15 days, and those shops, etc. I don't think there's any reason for the amendment not to be accepted, because nothing important changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29683	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic and joint MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party believes that Articles 11-2 and 3 should be deleted because attitude 2 treats what is the subject of the concession, and exploiting that resource would put national defence and security at risk. We believe that this attitude should be deleted for reasons why such resources should not and should not be subject to concessions. The fact is that in some places, where the objective exploitation of a state resource would pose a threat to national security, the exploitation of that resource should be carried out by a public enterprise. This resource, of course, should be used by the state, to exploit, but it should be done by a public firm, not by a foreign company or by a private company, in particular by means of a public tender, and then by direct contract to someone who should in no case be a concessionaire, in this case, grant the possibility and the right to exploit something and thus, not only by public tender procedure and by public tendering, endangers national defence and security. So, if the government believes that the public tender process and its implementation would put national defence and security at risk, what can only happen when the concessionaire starts exploiting the resources of which the exploitation would surely put national defence and security at risk. Deleting Article 3 is a logical trail of deleting the 2nd position of the same member.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29685	Anybody else answer for a word? There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29686	Few of us have brought this member of the law into a dilemma whether certain goods can be the subject of a concession at all, especially this position 2, as it predicts that an exceptional public tender procedure can be excluded if its implementation would put national defences and security at risk. In my opinion, this can't be the subject of this law, but now I see it's possible. Therefore, either the provision is clumsyly written, or something else is at stake, and that is why we predicted that attitude 2, and then, as its consequence, and attitude 3, is deleted. I don't even know what national security in this country is worried about if we've opened all the archives of the UN tribunal, we've put our national security on hold and there's no protection of interest anymore. If we want to protect it, it protects itself with the Constitution, and these laws cannot be protected. There are other special laws that treat this problem. Just to let you know that I also heard that Radio Guard from Batocina and Ozon from the Race are also transferring this session to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29687	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29688	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. The point is to delete attitude 2, which reads: "If the subject matter of the concession is located in the territory of the autonomous province, the public tender notice may be published by the competent authority of the autonomous province. In that case, deadlines have been counted since the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Here again we have a special type of trade with Vojvodina. This happened the last time we passed an omnibus law, so the cigarette factory passed an omnibus law that brought great evil to the citizens of Vojvodina, to the citizens of Serbia in general, and to the Serbian people in particular. There's something else going on right now. In order to pass the concession law, Vojvodina has again been traded with Vojvodina, because it has conditioned, or the autonomous leadership of Vojvodina, that the adoption of this law should be subject to the adoption of amendments submitted to them in February of the month. Gentlemen, stop tearing this country apart and trading in Serbian national interests. This isn't anyone's interest. Those who advocate and submit such amendments, which apparently go to the side of the secession of Vojvodina and the creation of the state of Vojvodina, must know that this is not the interest of the people of Vojvodina and is not politically permitted, nor has political power in the electoral body of Vojvodina. This option will be voted by 15% of the population in Vojvodina. What is the interest of Vojvodina, which is not Serbia's interest, or what is Serbia's interest, and is not the interest of Vojvodina? What is a national good or national treasure in Vojvodina that is not at the same time in Serbia, and what is ultimately in Novi Sad without being in Banat? This is the time when Europe unites, and you show by such laws that your consciousness is clearly not up to the time we are in, you show that by dividing and tearing you will lead to the return and happening in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29689	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29690	Article 12, which treats the area of public tender and the obligation to make it known as "the Official Messenger", as well as in one of the votes of international importance, means, in an international list, if the concession of such nature is of international importance, it is quite all right to think that it is necessary after point 10) to add point 14) relating to the use of thermal resources for health and production purposes, as a significant resource. Article 2 - if you have already taken that logic - if the subject matter of the concession is located in the territory of an autonomous province, the public tender notice may be published by the competent authority of the autonomous province. You're coming into a situation to answer the question - and why not in the public opinion of local self-government? Every local self-government has its own official list. It's quite enough to publish here. It is also published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", only now we are in a position to count these deadlines from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and then some are ahead, those who first read the official vote of the autonomous province. Why do you always single out that province like this? I don't think that's clear at all. Regionalisation has not yet taken place in this regard. We didn't mix those districts so much that they made countries for themselves. Autonomous province is one geographical term, to which you gave much more authority to that omnibus law, than you would have under the Constitution. We can see that Chanak is in favour of those powers that were in 1974. That's how it started in Kosovo, so here's where it ended. Vojvodina is an integral part of Serbia. If Zajcar is one, the King also applies to Novi Sad, to Kikinda. Stop succumbing to those blackmails, because it doesn't lead us well. This is political law. This is the attitude of the ruling majority towards the state property, according to the resources that we have, which are our national treasures, and you're decapitating them like this, and you're giving them who's going to decide on what, according to some of your interparty arrangements, just to provide the majority in the National Assembly. You can't provide most of it for anything anymore, at least not in a legitimate way. And the moment the Constitutional Court starts doing its job, then I guess in this country, the authorities that aren't chosen by the people will cease to function, first of all, v.D. President of the State. I must say, the Constitutional Court must take responsibility for itself. (President: Please stick to the agenda theme. ) The Constitutional Court will have to deal with this law, Mrs. Micic. I must warn them in advance that they are responsible for political-institutional chaos in this country. They'll have to react, because we're going to address the Constitutional Court by a lot of things about these laws. Let them do their job. National Radio 34 - Kragujevac, conveys to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29691	I don't mean to delude, but I'd say the Constitutional Court appreciates, assesses legality and constitutionality, and we're responsible for everything that's going on. So we're responsible. You're making a difference about it. Does anyone else sign up for a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to Article 14. Do you want a word? Here you go. The government and the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the majority of these halls are aware that this law is neither the right time nor the lawmaker has well designed and brought this law to the Members of Parliament. Consider that the agriculture minister is forming a commission for Serbia's forest wealth, and he has no idea about it, because the forest rich are located in the area from which he comes, so he doesn't even know where it is, and that some concession for the use of all the forests in this country. He specializes in catching sparrows and other rare birds, not forests. You in power are well aware of what happened when you agreed with the OMV to build 50 pumps on Serbia's territory. When they built the first four gas stations, they had to pay a fourm-euro racket. That's why it was too late to release the pump to Karaburma because it wasn't paid for in time. What does article 14 mean to you that the congregation appoints a member? The assembly appoints one member who will only be there figuratively and that all of us MPs are represented in the commission, and is decided by most votes. He will also represent us MPs from the opposition there and embarrass us, entering some dirty business. By law like this, you sentenced all ministers to years of imprisonment. A law like this simply inspires manipulation, robbery, and abuse. And yet another well-intentioned advice from you from the authority that you cannot provide the quorum: you have passed the previous law on the lising, you shall hire the MPs of the opposition and provide the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29693	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29694	The honourable MPs, article 14, regulates the composition of the tender commission, and we've gotten the impression that it's pretty vague, especially that it adopts some of the reached standards from some of the other committees that the Assembly has formed, so now, if this one doesn't give its member, the quorum is the one that makes up those who have found themselves there. It can't be like that. We tried to make it right. Either someone is forming an assembly of a tender commission and is obliged to be part of a tender commission, or not. So there's no delegation. He won't, if it's state property. The law doesn't say anything about the number of members that have to be on the tender committee. It's not good for these vague provisions to remain in law. The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that a fixed number of members of the Commission, as proposed by our amendment, establish a basis for different interpretations as to whether members appointed by the National Assembly, the competent authority of the province, or the unit of local self-government, are entered into that number, or, in that case, the composition of the Commission referred to in Article 1 shall be extended by an appropriate number of members. That's the law to regulate. He needs to predict all possibilities, everything that can come into existence in life, not leave room for various interpretations. Just because we didn't want a variety of interpretations, we gave the amendment here. The amendment is absolutely acceptable and there is no problem in not touching the essence of the law, whether or not such a concession law is needed, but if you have already decided, and there is a tender commission, it must be known how many members there are and who must be in that tender commission, if you already include local self-government and autonomous province in that commission. Look, you think they're interested, so they'll come anyway. It may be that local self-government has an interest in not giving something in the concession, say, or is in conflict with the government, so it won't give its representative, and then it asks a real question of the composition and number of members of the tender commission, what is the majority and how are they outvoted. According to us, the entire amendment, which intervenes absolutely in every position of this member, is given in order to overcome the possibility of not knowing who makes everything a tender commission. The TV "Rossulja" from Vlassotinc began to transmit, you know, the TV "Ignoza" from Čupre, that's what they told me now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29695	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic together submitted the 16th amendment. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, there isn't. ) Otherwise, the Government and the committee responsible have proposed that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakic. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? There is. ) Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government is, but the Committee is not, therefore, under discussion. So, the government has accepted, the Committee has not, it has to be declared, since the Assembly is more important.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29696	I guess the representatives of the government weren't on the board, otherwise they would have convinced the Committee to accept the amendment, but still, Article 16. The draft law relating to the proposal for the establishment of concessionaires in paragraph 3 provides that, with the report referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the Commission shall provide the minutes referred to in Article 15 of this Act, as well as other documents relating to the public tender. There's nothing in the law to be about this or that. It has to be a clear provision. I don't really object to the ministry, or to the people of the ministry, or to the minister because of these terms in the law, because it really doesn't have to be his job, he doesn't even have to know that matter; and those who deal with this problem are more concerned with the law itself and the solutions that he's going to propose, and this should be cared for by another body called - the government's secretariat for legislation. Obviously, there are no personnel for such an important job, which needs to worry about the harmonisation of legal acts, and also the termological, sometimes, you all know it well, and in law it means a lot; but that kind of staff policy in the government, so what do we do now, will be corrected when the time comes. Here's the promoter, or the minister, obviously realized that the amendment was in place. The Committee did not engage in this, and it is a pity that it is not, but it is the problem of this assembly, which in the Committee on Legislatives does not have the appropriate staff; or the Committee is used to working by initiative, as the Government says, and here there has been some misunderstanding, or the proposing representative was not there, or the materials are not prepared according to what the Proposer wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29697	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic jointly submitted the 17th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29698	Article 17 relating to the decision to determine the concessionaires referred to in Article 1 determines that the decision is taken by the Government within 30 days of the date of receipt of the report by the Commission on the public tender implemented. According to us, that is absolutely enough, with the last position to remain -- that the decision to determine the concessionaires must be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The second, third and fourth positions of this member provide for some exceptions, such as - when the subject of the concession is located on the territory of the autonomous province, the government shall decide within 30 days of the date of delivery of the opinion of the executive body of the AP. Furthermore, what happens in attitude 3 - is that it is obliged to give the Government's opinion no later than 30 days from the day of receipt of the report, etc., and all because of the fact that certain special rights are established by this law to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. We're complicating a law that can be much better and simpler to write if every municipality in this country is in the same position, regardless of whether it's in the Pcin County or the Northbok County, but it's obvious that the parliamentary majority and the government don't want it. The government probably knows what the future constitution is going to look like, and it's going to be at the hands of that future constitution, but it needs to be born first, so that the cradle buys, because they say it's wrong in advance, it can be a kid who can be a kid, but that's how it is. Your argument is that you do not accept the amendment for the reason that accepting this amendment would make it impossible for the competent authority of the province to deliver an opinion on the decision when setting concessionaires for the subject matter of concession on its territory. That's exactly what we want. It's a concept that led us to submit amendments to this bill. We don't want to tear the country apart, we don't want to give the Vojvodina any priorities compared to any other regions in this country. You are nowhere in any explanation, nor the very bill in those parts that you have changed compared to those of the previous ones, and especially not when it comes to amendments, said what Vojvodina deserves to be treated specifically in relation to other regions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29699	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) With the debate in detail on this amendment, we conclude the morning session and continue the session at 15.00, by discussing the amendment to article 18, which was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs in order to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue to discuss the proposal for a concession law, in particular. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a concession law, which calls for Article 20(1) to replace the concession with the words "allocate the concession". The government has rejected this amendment, with a reason that the adoption of this amendment would violate a unique terminology that should be respected through the text of the law. This explanation is absurd, because the amendment does not violate anything and does not change the very essence of the law itself, but the law is legally-technically perfected. The only real reason not to accept my amendment is because it comes in front of the SRS parliamentary group. As an SRS MP, I have an obligation to make amendments, which as an SRS parliamentary group we work hard on, try to help make the concession law better, to make it possible to fix it. You insist on not accepting something that is rational, which is beneficial for both the people and the state, just because it comes from political opponents. It is also discriminatory that the proposal for a law on concessions and concessions itself offers to those who have done everything to destroy our infrastructure, in order to get their hands on the concession as cheaply as possible. The elemental democratic principle of dividing the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial violations by deciding on concessions by the National Assembly. Why would the Serbian Parliament be responsible for something that should belong to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia not accept responsibility in the area of concessions? That would make sense, and that would be the only thing right. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to accept responsibility in the area of concessions, but responsibility for its disastrous action, for action and inaction, will have to accept, only to allow citizens of Serbia to correct the mistake they have committed by believing in your false pre-election promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29702	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic jointly submitted the 21st Amendment. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word? No, there isn't. Is anyone else applying? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić and Hranislav Peric. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? There is, a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29703	Article 22 of the concession law provides for what all the concession contracts should contain. The contract shall contain provisions on the duration of the concession and the conditions under which that period may be extended, the duration of the preparatory actions, etc. We suggest that instead of the word "hand" being "time", given that the contract is concluded on a certain period of time and that the deadline is something that implies a pre-exclusive period and something that is inherently procedurally right. Also, in point 9), which reads - the contract should also contain provisions on the right to transfer concessions, we believe that it is more appropriate to stand there "with conditions, way and procedure for the exercise of the right to transfer concessions". I already have a contract to regulate whether it is possible to transfer the right of concession to another person, under which conditions, in which way and in what procedure, and the right to transfer the concession cannot be contained in the contract, because the law is not determined by contract but by law. Therefore, this amendment, as an amendment following the previous amendments, is given with the aim of correcting the text of the law, and the Proposer considers that the amendment should not be accepted for the reason that the proposal in Article 1 is already provided for in this law to determine the conditions, manner and procedure of granting a concession. It is precisely because this law determines and needs an amendment to be adopted and that in the text of the law and of point 9) and point 2) they are recast. The proposer believes that the adoption of the proposed amendment would violate a unique terminology that should be respected through the text of the law. Here, it is true, a unique termology throughout the text of the law, but you will see already when we have the next law on the agenda, the guarantee fund law, that a completely different termology has been used and that this depends on who worked on the law, or from the ministry to the ministry, different terminology is used. I'm saying, that's probably the problem of the Legislative Secretariat that doesn't cultivate the same style and the same terminology in lawmaking. If the promoter were here, I believe he would understand the amendment's intention and have no reason not to accept this amendment. In addition, I am interested in, among other things, because I couldn't see it from Article 5, which predicts whether concessions could be certain construction facilities, or whether, for example, this building could be the subject of a concession, so that it could be reconstructed, used and so on. I am asking this because the court in charge has again made a negative decision on the premises used by the Serbian Radical Party for the headquarters of its main board and other bodies of the party, although the same court has already decided once. The district court annulled the verdict and sent it back to the competent court for rejuvenation, and the decision was made by a judge who was able to slap his expert associate, so now you see what kind of judges we have in the District Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29704	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29705	By amendment to Article 23, we ask that paragraph 2 be deleted. Article 23 concerns the conclusion of the contract. The concession agreement is concluded by the Government on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic, which is normal, and by a concessionary. If the concession is given to a larger number of persons, the concession contract concludes each of the concessionaries or persons authorised by those concessionaries, according to special powers. This is a sustainable legal formulation for us, but attitude 2 provides for a situation where the object of the concession is to build municipal facilities to carry out municipal work. The contract shall be concluded by the concessionary and the competent authority of the unit of local self-government on behalf of and for the account of the unit of local self-government, with the prior written consent of the Government. What it says -- with the government's written consent, is the fact that the only state of Serbia is the owner of all the goods that can be the subject of the concession, inserted here, but it is completely inappropriate that a local self-government unit that does not have its own property can conclude a concession contract. That is why we felt that this amendment had a legal basis and that even in the Constitutional Court, this might fall. In its plea for refusal of amendments, the Proposer himself does not pay sufficient attention to the arguments that follow a whole series of amendments and which contribute to the fact that concessions should be granted exclusively by the Serbian Government, if it has kept to itself, that it should not allow the province, as a form of territorial autonomy, or local self-government to decide on it, because there are no possibilities there, not only control, but we do not have enough or qualified personnel per unit of local self-government, which could, in a legally valid manner, decide on it, to regulate the concession act, to conclude a concession contract, which practically finalises the whole procedure from establishing the grounds for granting concession to the establishment of a concession act, tendering and at the end of the conclusion of the contract. The subject matter of concessions are the rights of funds in the possession of the Republic or the exercise of activity of particular interest, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the only body designated as a body in the Executive Authority's system of property rights on behalf of the Republic and, if nothing else, this law would have to comply with the provisions of the existing Constitution, no matter how much you do not like it. This isn't the first time the Constitution has broken. On many occasions, the Constitution has been broken so far. How are we going to respect the next one you bring? Are you going to break it, too, I really don't know. No matter who brought the Constitution, it is the constitution of this state, and if no one else then at least the government and the Serbian Parliament should respect it. And if we were to do a retrospective, I think in the past two and a half years, here's almost three years most often and most times in the Serbian Parliament, we've broken the Constitution, and then the government, of course, has solved its hands to do the same. The consequences will be that I think it's better if you arrest us all now than to wait for the government to change, so that we arrest you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29706	The word has been made by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, the applicant for the amendment to Article 23.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29707	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this concession law, as well as the previous law on financial leases, the Law on privatisation and tax laws adopted in the previous two or two and a half years since the DOS was in power, has one fundamental objective. This objective is to maintain the current government, namely this regime, at any cost, that is to obtain the funds necessary to service all budgetary needs, in order for this regime to remain and survive until the end of the term of office. This is clear from the reasoning of this law, where it is nice to say that the adoption of this law, and even says by an emergency procedure, is proposed because this law belongs to a package of laws that directly encourage the resuscitation of business activities in the Republic of Serbia. We all know that there is nothing from the economic activity, or from their resuscitation, that the economic activities are literally deadlocked and that the economy is increasingly difficult and harder to exist, that is, before the collapse. Also, it explains that the adoption of this law is another condition for the approval of the World Bank's loan to Serbia. This is what is crucial in this law; therefore, the key reason for this law to be passed as soon as possible. These are loans that the World Bank needs to grant Serbia, and that is exactly what this government's basic activity has been in the last two and a half years, so as much credit as possible to service all budget commitments. A few days ago, a loan of about $90 million was granted, which went directly to the social budget. Gentlemen, is it wise and how smart it is to take loans that go directly into consumption? That's not the kind of people who aren't educated at all, and if they're reasonable and the hosts won't let them take credit to survive. Credits are taken to resuscitate some business activities, to create something from which loans will return, which will remain to the state and society. Therefore, this law is controversial for those reasons. It is also controversial for many other reasons, and I will mention only Article 11 which is extremely discriminatory and which leaves enough arbitrary for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to decide when to rule out a concession, or when to exclude a public tender for a concession, which leaves the government with the possibility to arbitraryly determine when something of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia and when the public will be excluded. I have submitted an amendment to Article 23 to delete the position of the 2nd member, where the competent authority of the local self-government unit, with the previous consent of the Government, is left to conclude a concession agreement. This member is contrary to the basic idea of this law, with the first part of this law, where it stands out loud and clear in the first article that this law regulates the conditions and means of giving concessions for the use of natural wealth, good in the general application of which the law stipulates that they are in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the Republic of Serbia cannot transfer competences to the local self-government of the property it has and should be available to it. Also, this Article 23 is in collegiate with Article 21 of this Act, where the second position states that the Government shall appoint a negotiating committee with a concessionary designated on the basis of a public tender to establish the content of the contract in accordance with the conditions laid down by the concession act and this law, etc. So, the government is forming a commission, and after that commission, after making the contract, after negotiating with the concessionaire, local self-government comes to sign the contract. It doesn't make sense, and I think that this second position of Article 23 should be deleted, this amendment should be adopted in order for this law to have at least one thread that is logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29708	No more applications under this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic. Excuse me, the government has accepted this amendment. There's a debate going on since the Committee didn't. If there's anything you want to say? Okay. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29709	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, even though we said we wouldn't discuss it, I'll be very brief and I won't take up too much of your time. I have the impression that you're taking a lot more of your time than anyone else. Thus, the amendment to Article 25, paragraph 2, at the end of the second paragraph, stands stuck and the words are added "if he participated in a concession tender and in order to obtain a concession on the final list of bidders". Last time, the Soviet Parliament Club had an amendment in the same sense, and probably not the same member, but it is the same member's content, because we believe that this amendment will exclude all possible abuses that are most likely and will be present if we allow banks or financial institutions that are supposed to finance concessionaries to be in a position to propose and replace and place a concessionaire as someone they wish. They will come and have plenty of room for malfeasance and, believe me, this amendment to this article is very meaningful. Of course, the concentrate has to take care of the concessionary. What would it look like if they gave a concession for 20 years and after a year, the concessionor took away the concession because he was inequitable or went bankrupt, etc. In addition to these guarantees, banks etc. must take care of concessionaries who will come under this law in an opportunity to make concession work with us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29710	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29711	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment is very important. What's this about? I suggested that Article 25 after point 2 add a new position, which reads: "The government is obliged to ensure the consent of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 7 of this Law before making a decision on the replacement of concessionaries". Article 7 defines what is to be done and said - if the object of the concession is construction, maintenance, use of the objects referred to in Article 5 paragraph 1, point 3, 4), 5), 7) and 8) means research, exploitation of various raw materials etc. It is very important why the National Assembly should give consent. Mr. Deputy Minister, you're probably aware that it was the last time in Canada, where a concession was given, and that it's not built on us that anyone who has a concession on mineral raw materials has to do research on mineral raw materials, how many years, 10, 15 years, must create reserves. It must be exploited by scientific and world methods, not only to benefit from mineral raw materials. It happened in Canada that he was a member of the government, in fact the government minister signed a false statement for large money, research is positive and has some reserves. After buying that concession from the concessionaires, it was determined after a few years that they were incorrect. I'm saying this because of the Serbian parliament. Our ministers are corrupt. We have that general, he betrayed Tito, he betrayed Sloba, he betrayed the late Djindjic, that Perisic. That'll sell everything for 1,000 marks. But when a larger gathering is here, more voices are heard. It can't be sold. I'm not talking about other ministers, and there are both honest and honest. As this Perisic can sell it, that is why I propose that this amendment be adopted. The control of the Parliament of Government, and especially of some ministers, must be. You see how interested they are in this law. Only Minister Sabic is here, and he is not authorized and is sitting here as an MP. Take it if you read it somewhere and read it, in many countries the biggest criminal affairs have been happening around concessions and research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29712	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29713	Ladies and gentlemen, most government ministers don't talk to each other at all, that's what my predecessor said. I must say that we are against this proposed article 25, and against this amendment, we are not asking you to accept it, but we have given it to fix this text of the law, if you follow that concept, at least it looks like something. In fact, we have a problem with this position of Article 25(2) that prescribes a financing contract. It is said - the agreement of Article 1 may provide that, in the event of a bankruptcy or winding-up of a concession firm, the concessionor may, on a proposal from the bank, make a decision to replace the concessionaires with another concessionary. Why do you say he can make a decision? What if the contract doesn't predict that the concessionor can make a decision to replace the concessionary with another concessionary? Why should the concentrate worry at all about whether the concessionary will go bankrupt, what loses the concession; the resource he has offered is there, the contract fails; everything he has invested remains a concession and a new tender is being launched. That's the only thing that would be normal. Nothing's normal here anymore. Why the Serbian government, which is not interested in any company going bankrupt, is now interested in why a concessionaire goes bankrupt. Why a concessionary can transfer the concession to another person, with the consent of the concessionor. The question is, what if that other person was actually a real concessionist who couldn't show up when the tender was called. We have a situation: The plague paved the way, he didn't show up anywhere, but appeared in a tender of someone else. The roads were paved by the plagues, and that's it. The increase in the value of the facilities, devices and facilities that are in the state property, which is the subject of the concession, is the property of the Republic, in favour of the recent amendment, if the contract itself is not otherwise arranged. We can't qualify for a contract, we can't have the time to always prescribe what's in that contract and what if it is. If it is, it will be. It's all after between them that has to be solved. I'm saying, I have a handicap to explain the amendments because we're completely conceptually different in terms of concessions, although I say that for concessions, we are mentally, but we're afraid that this law will apply, given that no law is applied properly. On the one hand, you use everything that is available to you to ruin the economy, and then you try to find some models of alleged capital to get in, to make something better, to get some free capital, supposedly for a small economy, for self-services, crafts or trade, and that's about to come on the agenda. So we can no longer understand what your concept is when it comes to the economy. The only thing that the DOS and the Serbian government seem to be dealing with now is how to deal with the Serbian Radical Party and from there comes a solution for eviction from the party's premises. In this regard, I would like to remind you that in 1997, we have made it a condition for the Socialists not to allow the abuse of political parties, specifically the Democratic Party (that Djindjic is alive he would confirm it, I guess there are those who remember it, to tell the truth about it, to confirm), even though the rooms that the Democratic Party used usurped in time, about what I have before me a letter from the construction company "Rad" which says that they never under contract on the adaptation of a building on the street of proletarian brigades, were never paid, nor had they to pay, nor expected to pay now that they came to power. So much for how the Democratic Party came into the room and how it uses them, and today they brought and kept in custody the former director of the Earth Information and Business System, Mr. Momir Markovic, in search of some sort of a button between the ZIPS and this business space we took in the long-term lease. It's what the current government does, but it's how it works, and it's gonna come back to her.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29714	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. He has the word Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29715	Because of the content of this article last time, the concession law fell in this assembly, and now a political settlement has been reached that needs to guarantee that the law will pass. However, neither last time nor now the proponent nor the one with whom he has negotiated, which traded over the fate of the entire law, must be adopted for the simple reason that this member is being violated by the Constitution, and almost all of our regulations in the area of the fiscal system are being violated. If you look at Article 28, only the first and last positions have their place in the law, while attitudes 2 and 3 cannot be in the law for the simple reason that they do not belong to the matter that is regulated by this law. In position 2, the proposer says, and we heard that he later accepted the amendment of a political party, that the funds were being targeted on purpose. How do you purposely direct this thing? There is revenue from the budget of an autonomous province - it is only a dedicatedity, but it is not a dedicated provision regarding use. But in Section 3, which we don't touch, you give some precision where you're still chasing some concepts because, the Republic can't do what's in its jurisdiction and what the government needs to do by implementing and implementing some laws to transfer to lower authorities and other authorities. If they are entrusted with certain jobs, then they also provide funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and if you look at what you have written in the light of your position on the three amendments to this article, then you are contradictory in each of the answers. You have no vision, no concept of this law, no translation. That's what it's called. The only thing that is good is perhaps the last attitude that indicates that the person who performs and who is responsible for municipal activities, the local self-government unit, has the right to retain the concession fee. It has a basis and we don't have any intervention here. In order to understand how missed this is, I have to tell you that probably 50 to 60% of the possible concessions and don't bring any significant concession fee. I'll take a special case, for example, when a concession gives me the right to carry out an adequate activity on the means that already exist, which should only be reconstructed, perhaps a little bit groomed and something like that. We had an attempt here in Belgrade to consider a large concession that was reduced to making it much easier for a stranger to read the watercutters because it was the subject of the concession. So if you're expecting a concession to collect some big revenue, I have to tell you that there are no experts in this country who could calculate it, especially after the bat system. There are several books on this system and they all link the concession to that system. You're interpreting it as BOT, obviously you prefer it that way. What if there's no concession fee in that amount you're expecting? The advantage of the concession is, among other things, not only in compensation but also in the fact that a system works, that some services are provided, that some work is done. In the morning part of the session, I've turned your attention, the duration of the right of action doesn't always have to mean that after the deadline, the time of use of the concession will be both some benefit and some property that will remain. Consider the technological wonders, consider other factors and other circumstances. There is no constitutional basis for such solutions, especially with regard to attitude 2, and there is no possibility of this being predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29716	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. The government has accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic jointly submitted the 28th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29717	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, this is a member of which the law fell last time. Now it's the same article, same percentages, the law will pass. I don't understand how it all changed so quickly, but, well, let's get it to your address. But what's this about? It is that 5%, as provided for by this law in the case of certain concessions in terms of exploitation, is too little compared to how much environmental destruction is involved. We have such an example in Lazarevec, in the village of Vreca, where the surface spear has completely ruined the environment and where absolutely cannot live under normal conditions. Here, just because I assume that exploitation will be the subject of a concession, sometimes someone, this should be understood; because people live in such difficult living conditions that in such cases the percentage should be much higher than 5%, which is practically insignificant if it's a serious concession, and we're a serious society, a serious country, and everything is going to be a serious concession. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29718	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Radojko Petrovic. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic. The Government has accepted this amendment. The committee in charge proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29719	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Madam Chairman, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Radojko Petric and I have submitted an amendment to one of the key members of the Law on concessions, which is Article 28, which regulates the criteria for directing the concession fee. This is the member most broken by the spear during the review in February of the month, and also today, given that we only heard this morning that attitude 2 of this law had changed and that the amendment proposed by the duchy MPs had been adopted. In this article, we have proposed a new position 4, that funds made from concession fees based on concession items, which are, above all, roads, railway infrastructures, air traffic facilities, river traffic, telecommunications, pipelines, gas pipelines, energy facilities, are used to develop the Republic of Serbia at the level of the remaining amount, or 90% of concession fees, given that we have followed Article 28, means that 5% of the funds is allocated to finance infrastructure at the level of local self-government, where the facility is located - the subject of concession 5% for the autonomous province. I cannot accept the argument that the Government has sent to this Parliament and the answer to our amendment, given that the answer has been addressed to the unauthorized, or that it has been addressed to the amendments of the parliamentary groups, which have not even been submitted. It is also clear to us that the funds are realised by the concession fee of the public revenue of the budget, and they are being allocated by the Budget Law, which brings this parliament. It's clear that this is budget revenue. Whether it is big or small, it certainly depends on the activities of local self-government and also on competent ministries and other persons who can submit the initiative. The amount of concession fee will certainly, at least at the beginning, not be an extremely significant revenue of the budget. That is why we aim to make use of this part of the budget for the development, construction, reconstruction and better conditions on infrastructure facilities, which would encourage public works and investment funds to be bigger and certainly be one part for equalising regional development in Serbia, as well as the launch of economic activities. I think the greatest interest in concession items will be in developed areas, above all for the most significant infrastructure facilities, while local infrastructure will be subject to less interest. Our proposal is that all concession revenues that come on the basis of road infrastructure be invested in further modernisation of roads, so that it does not happen in such a difficult state in the budget, a major budget deficit, that the funding from concessions is used to cover the budget deficit, and do not give God for financing Serbia's Radio - Television, or other works. I think there would be significant funds here from river traffic, river flows, to be used to remove the effects of floods, and also the result of droughts, and that we can easily get the means to stimulate future investment and infrastructure development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29720	Does anyone else sign up for a word? There is a word from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29721	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a few sentences. The truth is that Article 28 has drawn the most attention from all MPs and in the previous debate that we had on the basis of the proposal for a concession law. It turns out that the law in the original vote fell because of that member. We here have several variants, which come almost from all parliamentary groups, including the ruling one, in which it is simply bid in some way with percentages that should belong to individual entities in this law, such as local self-government, autonomous province, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed solution to the bill provides that 5% of the funds, which are collected from concession-based fees, are set aside for local self-government and 5% for autonomous provinces. We have proposed, following this article's review, that the remaining 90% of the funds be not simply budget revenue, so that from this budget can be used for any purpose, including the needs in the field of social protection, education, health care, etc., in the context of public spending, taking advantage of the total, but that these funds be used for the development of infrastructure in those areas from which the concession is subject to the appropriate compensation. For the first time, even now our amendment has not been accepted. I think there was more reason to accept it than this proposed by the duchy MPs, that 30% of the funds achieved based on concessions were used in the area of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Why do I think that's better? It is better because in certain variants, applying this method of distribution of the funds we propose, Vojvodina could also receive 90% of the funds achieved on the basis of the concession fee, if the object that is the subject of the concession is located on the territory of Vojvodina. If it wasn't on the territory of Vojvodina, then it would have gotten this 5%, as much as it would otherwise, according to the current decision of Article 28, which came from the government. So 30% is a relative thing; whether it's 30.40 or 50, we say it's 90%, but it's not a matter of territory, it's an area from which the concession is subject and in which the concession income is realised. I agree with those who think at least at first we won't have any idea how much revenue in the republican budget based on concessions. That's true. But it's not just that. The point is that concessions may develop more in the second part of the system - building, using and after 30 years of handing over to the Republic of Serbia, local self-government or autonomous province. It would be a better variant of applying the Law on concessions than what was already built on using someone else, so no matter how much the concession fee was. In doing so, if someone builds and uses the object of the concession for 30 years, then it is logical that, looking at the economic reason, for those 30 years and making enough profit to extract that investment he invested at the beginning of the concession relationship. If someone uses a 30-year building facility, then the compensation would have to be at the price needed to realize that such an object or object of the concession would be built. If we are to target income from concessions on other types of spending within the budget, then we will be at risk of spending significant national goods without financing them from concession fees, or not even achieving a simple reproduction in the area. Because when someone's using a 30-year highway, then it's normal to mutilate it and of course it's the most natural thing to use those funds that are collected from concessions on the highway to build other highways. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29722	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic together submitted the 30th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the committee in charge has proposed that it be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants don't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. The government did not accept this amendment, neither did the committee in charge, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dragan Pavlovic, the applicant of the amendment to Article 30. Proposal for a concession law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30, which reads: "a concessionary can transfer the concession received to another person, with the consent of the concession, in the manner and under the conditions provided for in the concession agreement. The transfer of the concession shall be subject to a special agreement on which the concession is given. The contract on the transfer of concession concluded without the agreement of the concession is nothing." My amendment refers to the addition of a new position 3 in Article 30 after Article 2 of Article 30, which reads: "The government is obliged to ensure the consent of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 7 of this Act before giving consent under Article 2 of this Law". Item 3 becomes item 4. An amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS to Article 30. I have provided for the proposal for a concession law to add a new position under which the Government is obliged to ensure the consent of the National Assembly before giving its consent under this text. I made the amendment because I am sure that the majority of the congregation would accept the proposal, so I wanted to formally prepare the legal text. However, who could be sure that this law will be passed, perhaps this time a small group of MPs will appear to increase their appetites, and will follow Nenad Chanka and refuse to vote on the government's proposal. Since Canak was involved with the government, it is possible that someone else whose best man has a friend who could be a senior state official might appear. Our programme position is that the Assembly does not interfere with concession matters, and my amendment applies only to granting consent within the meaning of Article 7. The amendment has been submitted because we are against the fact that the goods of Article 7 are subject to concession, but since there is concern that you will adopt this, I believe that the parliamentary control will at least be somewhat protected by general government good. I don't have any confidence in this assembly, or the assembly majority, but at least we're MPs in a position to know what we're proposing, and in DOS government I absolutely don't trust, I'm even afraid of what the government is going to do to whom and under what conditions it is subject to concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29724	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29725	We have already started the discussion on previous amendments on the transfer of concessions with Article 30. Article 1 is acceptable to us - the concessionary, or the Government, can transfer the concession to another person, with the consent of the concession, in the manner and under the conditions provided for in the concession agreement. The transfer of the concession is carried out by a special contract, it is clear, and that transfer must be given by the concession, but there is no need to regulate another situation here, given that Article 7 has been proposed by the Government, in order for the Government to be obliged to ensure the consent of the National Assembly before giving consent under Article 2. To the truth, the National Assembly is the one who takes a stand on giving a certain object in a concession, by stating the very proposal for a concession. The attitude of the National Assembly refers to the justification of giving a concession, not to the choice itself and to the person of the concessionaires. But we have to show that, when the concession agreement with a particular concessionary is concluded, we can come into a situation that after three days he transfers that concession to a third party; the National Assembly is particularly interested in those areas referred to in Article 7 which are declared, i.e. from Article 5 point 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8 and 10), and which have strategic significance for the Republic of Serbia, and we have added 14 more, i.e. the use of thermal sources for health and production purposes; this can be a way of avoiding both the National Assembly and concessionaires, i.e. behind the existing concessionaire that only someone else who first concluded the concession agreement may be hiding. Although we are at the point that the National Assembly should not be involved in these matters, if you have already provided that it decides on a question of eligibility of concessions, we will not have any idea how many interested in certain concessions, all of which is heard about how many interested there are, and when we find out who are interested in some concession, especially in those strategic spheres, we can very well assess - and any of us who are seriously involved in this business, understands the situation in the country and knows the market within the country and the market in Europe, and beyond - what anyone wants from that concession and whether it will come out for good or will benefit only the person who invests. He is indisputable by taking the concession he expects, of course, profits, and should have, but we should benefit from that, not only damage; therefore we have proposed to the Government to add to Article 30 after Article 2 paragraph 3 of the new position, which reads: "The government is obliged to ensure the consent of the National Assembly in the sense of Article 7 of this Law before giving consent under Article 2 of this Law". After some time, this congregation can assess, either after some year or two experience, the use of a concession, that there is no longer any interest in giving this concession that is of strategic importance further in the concession. Practically, it's about a new concession and then get it back to that assembly again, if you adopt a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29726	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 37. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29727	This is a member of a law that regulates a legal situation called the termination of a concession firm. We propose, by amendment, that only one legal-technical editorial be carried out in terms of the previous amendments that we have submitted. To better understand this amendment, I would use as an introduction to specify what we can expect from this law. We can expect there to be some interest. Interest will find those who have free resources, and their logic of thinking is to invest in something where they can make far more money or get a relatively more permanent job and thus secure their business, but by the system of as little investment as possible, as much profit as possible. It's a perfectly normal expectation of every owner of capital, because he wants to make an average profit with smaller investments. What else can we expect from this law? We can expect that, because in the initial provisions of this law, the motionor has not resolved the basics, we have duality, and in some places and the emergence of a tripartite solution, that, essentially, the subject matter of the concession is not decided by the competent state body, as is stated in one article. It is not the one exercising property rights in the name of the Republic that decides on behalf of the Republic, but rather the other authority to whom the work is entrusted, both unlawfully and counter-constitutionally. Then we can expect that, for example, because of the mistrust of those who represent the Republic of Serbia for a particular concession, any local government or utility, say, take it to Belgrade, the potential concessionaire does not have a minimum guarantee of safety and if he negotiates a concession, he would discuss that concession for a very short time. Why would he go on some longer deadlines, because it's possible to introduce temporary measures. We have 50, 60 municipalities where temporary measures have already been introduced, where what was no longer valid, the contract may no longer be valid, etc. In particular, I would say that in the matter of concession, we have, in addition to the right to use and exploit something that is really the property of the Republic of Serbia, and the right to exercise action of general interest. There's a great danger here. This is why it is dangerous if, under the law, a necessarily established concession company is in trouble, as it is challenging not only the realisation of the contract, but also the exercise of the rights of individual citizens. Practically, this article regulates the situation that, after the time agreed, the duration of the concession, the company ceases. Of course, the Company Act says that there is a possibility of establishing a company for a certain time, not a certain deadline. It's that legal-technical editorial we pointed to. It would probably be necessary in this article to add some of the words that would indicate how this company ends when time passes. It's probably some kind of voluntary liquidation. It is hardly a bankruptcy, since this company would have to deal with and what a good profit it is, because if there is no profit in this concession company, then there is no point in performing some concession activity. So, if you accept this amendment, you're only legally regulating your concept, the wrong concept, the wrong way of thinking that through concessions you provide some means and the functioning of certain activities. I'm sure there will be problems with this law, and I'm even safer, because of the awareness of these shortcomings, that there will be an even greater fear in the government that will fail to apply this law on any occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29728	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29729	Since this is the last amendment submitted by the SRS MPs to the concession law, I would like to say once again that the SRS MPs support concessions, but cannot support this concept of concession laws and will not vote for this law. I would like to comment once again on the whole of this law and all these amendments, that although the adoption of this law is one of the conditions for granting loans to the World Bank to Serbia, which was one of the conditions of the Financial Lising Act, the question is raised as far as these blackmails go and as long as we are willing to give in to those who regulate our economic and legal order. The answer to this question is obviously in the absence of financial resources in a country that is impoverished by long-term sanctions, war environments, aggression, the destruction of the infrastructure of our business facilities, and by the arrival of DOS to power and deliberate destruction of certain companies that are being brought into bankruptcy in order to be sold or privatised. I hear only four firms went into bankruptcy at Zrenjanin. It's just that a man can't understand that a company like The Cereals, which is an exceptional business, can come into this situation, except that someone deliberately brought it into this situation. It seems to me that this part of the law relating to the introduction of the National Assembly and our MPs, in order for the government to share responsibility with someone about the award of concessions, we should not accept it, or we should somehow prevent it from voting the law in principle. In our opinion, it would be much better for the Government to carry out its obligations by once a year going out in front of the National Assembly and submitting a report on its work and in the context of it - we gave so many and so many concessions, we gave a concession to it as well. That's enough for the National Assembly. Given that we're a poor country, that we're also under some kind of occupation, somewhere real, somewhere hidden, we're sure to have concession problems, like many countries in the environment. He was also aware of the minister who mentioned it in his exposé. It may seem a little ironic, but maybe it's a good thing we're a poor country. At least we still have healthy food, healthy water. Many cities drink tap water, which is rare today in Europe. It is our quality, but our quality is primarily aware of those vultures who will throw themselves at all of our resources that we have: water, air, earth, ore, minerals and so forth. In short, these are the reasons that we presented and in the principle debate and tried to convince the MPs in particular that there should be no voting for such a law. Unfortunately, MPs have not shown any interest in the law. I doubt they know the difference between this and the previous one. No one went into the debate, no one supported this law or criticized any amendment. The minister hasn't had a chance, here today almost all day, apologized that he couldn't be here to listen to us. You've obviously counted yourself. You have a sufficient number of MPs to be present at the vote itself, and you don't need much - 126, half plus one, to pass the law, I guess you're still taking the shot to secure it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29730	Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Milos Nesovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, my colleague Nesovic and I, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, submitted a very simple amendment to Article 40. However, as simple as the amendment is, we got one very complex, complicated and vague answer, so I think it's only an explanation of our ladies why there are no television broadcasts today more vaguely than this response the government gave us. For those who have not been able to take a look at the law because of other obligations, Article 40 regulates the reasons for ending the concession relationship and among other reasons we have made an amendment suggesting that attitude 4 be added, which says that concessions stop if the concessionary does not meet his obligations twice in parallel. So the amendment is very simple. The answer we received from the government - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why, besides the Republic of Serbia and local self-government, concession agreements can be concluded. This amendment should be considered before, because the law, which we are likely to adopt, provides that the subject of concessions can also be built water supply systems. I expect big problems in practice here; for example, the water supply system for the cell, the water supply system for Rzav, these are water systems built by means of self-supply of citizens. For ten years, citizens have singled out an average of personal resources for the construction of these water systems, so the legally very complicated and ownership relationship of what local self-government or the Republic will give as a concession tomorrow. That's what citizens built with their own resources to have water without profit, so at the cost of free reproduction, so I think it's a big mistake to give built water supply systems. This will certainly result in misunderstandings on the ground, because you have an example of a Sofia plumber where whoever took the concession raised the water price 40 times. Payment problems arise, and citizens think they are partly owners, and they would prove in the Strasbourg court, because ten years per 5% were allocated for water and water distribution systems; surely there will be disputes and then the concessionaire will not charge, and he will not pay the concession. In that case, you can't break up the concession relationship. We don't think there was any interference in the analogy. If the Financial Lising Act provides that if the leaser does not pay two payments, the lease ratio is broken. I guess the state needs to protect itself a little bit more, not diminishing the importance of protecting the leaser. I guess the concession state needs to protect itself, if whoever takes the concession doesn't pay twice in a row to make it a reason to break up the concession relationship. I don't think there was a problem with this amendment being accepted, especially since it doesn't change the concept of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29732	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no amendments to the proposal for a law on concessions anymore, and the proposing's representative has apologized and cannot give the final word, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for A BERANCE FOND (principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs' groups to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dusan Ilic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milovan Radovanovic, Stevan Kesejić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Branislav Blažić, Milorad Mirčić, Veroljub Arsic, Slobodan Janjic, Ljubomir Kragović, Petar Jojic, Dragan Ljubojević, Natasa Jovanovic; together Hranislav Perić and Rajko Baralić; together Rajko Baralić and Hranislav Perić; together Radojko Petrić and Dusan Cvetkovic and together Ljubomir Mucic and Dusan Cvetković. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of the proposing economy and privatisation minister Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29733	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. You have before you a law on a Guarantee Fund whose primary task is to create an additional institutional condition for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. This, in other words, means that the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is a complex process that requires not only institutional support in terms of the construction of individual institutions, but also the rounding of the legal environment that is necessary for this sector, which is very important for all countries in transition, to reach its full term. As is known, we adopted the "Small and Medium Business Development Strategy" at the Serbian government early this year. In the course of last year, we worked very hard to establish a network of regional offices for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. Also, in front of this house, the amendments to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs were discussed. Other documents related to the creation and formation of inter-resor groups have also been prepared to identify obstacles to the development of entrepreneurship and to remove them and, in the end, I think there is an institutional rounding in the work relating to financing the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We, unlike earlier intensities, have concluded that the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is financed by the state, unlike such, in our very wrong way, that the state should form those institutions that are needed to support just entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized private enterprises, at the time when they appear in front of domestic private banks to obtain appropriate credit lines for financing, whether investment projects or finance of crafts. We have recognized that the key problem is giving appropriate collateral. This means that the key problem is giving guarantees for getting credit lines. Not the lack of projects in this sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, not the unwillingness of banks to finance such projects, but rather one resistance, one very cautious approach to banks precisely because of the fact that they have collated a key obstacle that lies ahead of a more intensive financing of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm not going to explain to you the reasons why the lack of collateral was an obstacle. Perhaps just a few sentences to say that the largest number of small and medium-sized enterprises do not still have a registered fixed property, so as such fixed assets cannot serve to give collateral; there is a whole series of problems and the uncircumcision of an economic-legal environment that enables the giving of different types of collateral from mortgages to credits obtained. We have concluded that in a relatively short period of time, states must stimulate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises through the establishment of exactly one such institution, what is the institution proposed by the adoption of this law, which is the Guarantee Fund. In a few sentences, which is the essence of the Guarantee Fund. The Guarantee Fund, as I said, is not here to share loans with private enterprises, SMEs and entrepreneurs, but rather, the Guarantee Fund is there to cover the partial risk of financing projects in small and medium-sized enterprises, financing by the private banking sector and in part, no more than 50%. All countries that paid attention to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in one transitional period until other mechanisms were established and to the final round-up that provided the collateralisation of loans in one classic way had these institutions, such as the Guarantee Fund institution. As you know, the bill came to parliament in September of last year. It's a great pleasure to discuss this today. Better today than two months later, but certainly for those of us who implement the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Strategy would have been much more important if we had discussed this four or five or more months ago. Anyway, that period wasn't missed. In the meantime, we have prepared all necessary mechanisms, all institutional assumptions that will allow us to set up a guarantee fund in a relatively short period of time and the guarantee fund will become active, if adopted at this session, at this session of Parliament. The Guarantee Fund will become active in early July. This means that since July, we can expect one more offensive intervention from the private banking sector to finance the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. For these needs, the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia provides for an amount of initial financing. That amount of initial funding is 600 million dinars. In the later phase, the guarantee potential of the Guarantee Fund is projected to increase, not only through the monetary portfolio, but also through portfolio action, portfolio of assets. I hope that the result of the establishment of such an institution along with a network of regional agencies and, together with already passed system laws and those yet to be passed, that this will all contribute to the realisation of those key objectives of "Strategy". And let me remind you one more time: the key objective of "Strategy" is a million new jobs, is 400,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises instead of 270,000, as we have today. This goal should be realised by 2008. He's not ambitious at all, he's not unrealistic. This goal will be achieved with 50% simply by converting the grey economy into a legal economy, as it is estimated that at least 500,000 people are currently in the gray economy. For the grey economy, it will be more cost-effective to be in the legal economy, to benefit from all the benefits, benefits offered by the regional network of the agency, the guarantee fund, which will be established under this law and the Development Fund, which exists and all other benefits that can only be used if you are in the legal zone of the economy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that after a comprehensive debate you vote for this law, because in this way you will best contribute to the realisation of reform objectives in the part of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29734	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do the committees want the word? There's no sign-ins. ) Are there any reports of representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Jovan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29735	Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, better today, perhaps, than Tuesday, because I don't know if you'll be there on Tuesday -- will you be? Good! Then I'll just be 10 minutes, and then the next 10, if necessary, on Tuesday. We have a law before us that I think should have been in the congregation procedure a long time ago. I think it's a real shame for small and medium-sized enterprises in our economy and the Republic of Serbia that we didn't have this law in May of the month, but in 2001! Meanwhile, all economic flows go in a bad direction or with such indicators that we cannot possibly be satisfied with. As much as the government people are concerned about showing us and the public that something is better than it was, as much has been fixed, the right to tell you, that repair in such a size, as it seems, I don't see. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the most vital part of our Serbian economy. It is an indisputable fact and it would be a sin not to support small and medium-sized enterprises, because in the future, I am quite sure, as in the European Union, it will represent more than 90% of all businesses in the Republic of Serbia. I am sure that in our small and medium-sized enterprises, at least two thirds of national income, i.e. social gross product, will be realised. I am not sure that we will be able to achieve all this within the deadlines given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in a document called "Strategy of Small and Medium Enterprises Development". Those who have been able to read this document, I remind you of several facts in this document. The goal is, first of all, that out of the current 270,000 small and medium-sized enterprises, how formally exists in our Republic, 400,000 companies are being employed; and that these 400,000 businesses, which are small or medium-sized, employ new millions of people. I now have a problem here, how do I link these two facts and how important and how, as a man who has experience in the economy, I support, connect with the Guarantee Fund that will have a founding capital of only 600,000 dinars or an incomplete 10m euros, since our euro course has recently been corrected. As possible, strategically speaking, in a very short time since the four remaining years, we will be able to start new 130,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and in them, including existing businesses, employ new millions of workers, while the initial capital of this fund is minimal. I would say, it's not enough for any medium-developed municipality, it's not enough to have a guarantee potential of just 10m euros or a medium-developed municipality. If we have a provision in this respect, which is the essence of this guarantee law in Article 9 that we will only partially guarantee economic operators, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, the amounts of loans that will be withdrawn from banks and from financial organisations. Now the question arises, be in the position of one businessman, a small businessman, a large entrepreneur in a small or medium-sized enterprise asking for 100,000 euros in credit from a business bank: contact the guarantee fund, or a bank on its behalf or for its own account, but for its own reasons, contact the guarantee fund at 50,000 euros, and for the rest of the bank asks to provide another type of security, most often a mortgage. Those who are broken down by business banks know that no commercial bank issue loans without a mortgage, whose coverage is at least at the level of the double amount guaranteed, i.e. covers the mortgage. There's even a triple amount in some, and as my Lozniks would say, they're covered in a 40-degree leper. Then there's a walk in the torments of a small businessman who now has a guarantee from the Fund at 50% of the requested loan, and he can't secure a mortgage on the remaining 50%, and that's because his assets aren't listed in the cadastre, because his land books aren't up-to-date, which he simply has no assets, but he's got an idea, he's got an entrepreneurial ability to realise it, but there's no chance of his optimism and his ability to do it all. At the meeting of the Development Committee, I asked Minister Vlahovic why it came to this and I received an answer that seems logical at first sight, namely that business banks must also take the appropriate risk. I agree with that. But what is the mechanism that will force the business bank to take at least 50% of the credit to that end as its own risk and to place those funds in small and medium-sized enterprises, which is our goal? The competition mechanism at this point, the minister says, does not exist. Why? Because the funds that business banks and financial organisations have to do with this are limited so that you cannot satisfy even the smallest number of small and medium-sized enterprises with requirements to finance real programmes within their activities. So there's no competition. As soon as there's no money, there can't even be competition. And why is there no money? There's no money because in the economy we have a situation that is what it is, because banking potentials aren't even used to funding small-sized programs. It is true what is said in the explanation that most of the funds are directed at large enterprises, but only because large enterprises have objectively a high value of assets, which have real estates that are normally registered and on which mortgages can be taken. Our banker thinks so, no matter how much we strive to change their way of thinking, the risk present in banking simply leads them to do as they do. And if we now pass a law that will oblige the Government and the relevant bodies of that guarantee fund that must not guarantee in any variant the total amount of credit, we have come to a rather bewitched circle and I don't know how we will get out of it in practice, unless it is shown that after a month or two days from the application of this law we will have to go one step further, or to delete that provision in order to allow the fund to, in certain cases, where there is real potential and real reasons, guarantee the total amount of credit. Here in one member, I don't know exactly which, even optimistically, is thinking that any surplus funds are freely placed on the financial market. It's a bit of a discussion, since this whole guarantee fund story could also be a story that one title could be called a fund for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Maybe the whole story would have gone more productive if we had defined ourselves to propose the establishment of that fund, not just a guarantee fund. Perhaps, then, opportunities to support small and medium-sized enterprises would be not only in the sphere of guarantees but also in the sphere of real positioning of monetary capital into certain economic operators and their programmes. If we don't help small businesses define their business programmes and projects, reduce all the administrative obstacles they have, eliminate them, we won't be worth even the guarantees that are acceptable to the bank. Because it looks like everything can be found in this country except for a program that has the support of everyone. There are always those who, in any way, hold the job back, and when the month or two or three goes by in some activities then in the fourth month it becomes deplaced to do things, because the issue of the season is current, the question of competition or something else that turns out to be an obstacle that does not have a proper foothold in all of this. And just a few more sentences in this part -- the biggest thing would be to open credit lines that are of external character, which are from abroad, that's where we're not going right, because in the last two and a half years of allocated billions and 400m euros of credit, so on. concession loans, only around 22% or about 311m euros were realised here. Everything else is on some "long stick," and when you look at the structure of these assets that are here, little is used for this particular story that we're talking about right now, for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29736	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to a debate in order to report Members of the People to the debate in principle. The first registered MP is Velimir Simonovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29737	I have two short questions for the minister and I hope that there will be short answers immediately, but before that I would say something that Mrs. Comic did not allow me yesterday. Here's the thing: We have to take care of the authority of this house. Only MPs, members of the government, therefore, ministers, and the President of the Republic can enter this room when we invite him or when he wants to come alone. The ministry officials in this room can't get in. The minister can call his associates, assistants, advisors and deputies only for committee meetings where laws are discussed. They can help him there, they can add papers, they can make notes and stuff, but in this room, the minister needs to be alone with the MPs. Can you imagine the House of Great Britain or any other European Parliament sitting in the hall? There's a lot of them. No, it's not true, it's just here! I ask the Bureau of Parliament to write a letter to the Government that the Prime Minister will inform the Ministers that they will come here alone and that they will bring whoever they want to to the board meetings because there is a detailed debate on laws and amendments on committees. There is another ugly phenomenon in this House, it concerns only us MPs, so I will talk about it another time. Now I'm moving on to the law. Mr. Vlahovic, as I said, I only have two short questions: the first question concerns Article 20, which says in the first position: "The Fund's supervision of labour law is carried out by the Ministry of Business Affairs." Well, half the ministries are competent. Why didn't you write down exactly what ministry it was? (Alexander Vlahovic, from the post: Because the ministry's name in the coming years can be changed. ) Yes, in the coming years when the government is formed at least five ministries will deal with the economy, you see how it is now: the Ministry of Economy, your Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, Pitic's Ministry, the Ministry of Energy, etc. So, everyone's in business. I think it's got to stand here clearly which ministry it's about. Second, my question concerns point 4 of your final comments, which mentions "the means to implement this law of 600 million dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget". If I remember correctly, for this year these funds are not provided. (Alexander Vlahovic, from the site: They are secured. If they are, then my question already has an answer. I thought if they weren't secured, then the fund couldn't be formed. Are the funds secured in rebalancing or in November? (Alexander Vlahovic, from the post: They are provided in the original budget. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29738	I ask the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the speaker not to conduct the dialogue while he is a speaker for the pay phone. The speaker has the right to ask a question, and the minister will address later. Given that the MP is past the subject, but with the right, because I suppose the intention of protecting the reputation and self-respect of this institution has sent a proposal to the Presidency to address the Government - we can introduce unwritten rules of various kinds. The written rules of this kind don't exist. Members of the Assembly may attend any one invited to attend the session by the President of the Assembly. But I accept the remark that this matter should be settled and that it is the interest of this institution. The next registered speaker is MP Zoran Krasic. After him, MP Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29739	By adopting this law, the National Assembly practically says, we do not respect the Constitution, we respect nothing that exists so far in our legal system. Because by adopting this law, we're about to answer some questions, but we're expanding the possibility of how far the state can wonder. From the point of view of the Serbian Radical Party, this is a law that virtually requires the state to enter some areas, where it should not be found, because the state has its obligations, its powers - the government has its powers prescribed by the Constitution and law and in the economic sphere and in banking affairs. There are, above all, control functions, objective, impartial, fair conditions of business, equality for all, that's where the state can possibly intervene, that the law prescribes some rule of conduct. Anything the minister said earlier sounds nice, but it can't be found in the law. It sounds nice and can be found in some political tribune, but a law that represents a legal act with harsh imperial provisions cannot be an act in which there are good wishes, which cannot be realized. The state must not make them come true directly. Let's get in line. You explained one short cut and an overview of what the current state is. The situation is probably 30 years, too, unchanged. As far as small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, almost no one supports it creditfully. If there is any support, you can immediately assume what the background of that support is. But you can't say, "The problem of lack of security means" in an explanation. Security funds exist, but the problem is that they can't be provided, not just because of land books, not because there's an impossible deposit or because there's no property. In fact, they cannot legally provide, be valid and be a real means of security of claim. The fact that domestic banks do not lend small and medium-sized enterprises also applies to foreign banks. They have spectacularly entered our market as a great potential, as something that should enable our economy to develop. But you see for yourself, they don't take that business risk either. Why would the state, even through its fund, take the risk of banks, not the risk of developing small and medium-sized enterprises? He takes the risk on behalf of the bank and on behalf of the bank. In one of these members, you stated that this fantastic fund of yours only provides bank guarantees and superguarantee. In order for two papers to be issued, we need to build a fund. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a large number of amendments to make this fund law look like something. But we believe that the state must not interfere in this area and must not regulate, nor guarantee anything that is purely a business relationship between the bank and the borrower. What could the state use as a means of encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises? Look at your decision on monetary policy. Look what the National Bank is doing with business banks! Could it have been possible to write down some benefits for those banks operating in small and medium-sized enterprises, not only for crafts, but, above all, for basic capital. See why other banks do not use existing security funds -- collateral, retaining property rights on goods purchased through credit or other security funds. There is no guarantee, there is no security, there is no perspective, because the market is monopolised, and the development, the competition, that is, the creation of competition through small and medium-sized enterprises is practically impossible. That's why it was better if you already had the Development Fund, that you put those funds into that development fund to support these companies through some banks or, even better, that the state formed a development bank, that all countries in transition form a development bank, through which they bear part of the costs and part of the losses. You have almost no provision on this task in this bill to provide your guarantee and the superguarantee you give to a bank. If there is any realisation of your guarantee, how will you recover the funds? By this law, which you call wrongly the guarantee fund law and in the first article you write about good wishes, this is a law on the establishment of a guarantee fund, you have prescribed what of the competent authorities of that fund should do and you think you have finished the job! What's going to happen in practice? In practice there will be a jag for those 600,000 dinars! And who's going to get those funds? You know, at the level of local communities, similar to small businesses, who could possibly be sponsors of those who placed those funds! We have pointed to many amendments to the legal - technical and other legal shortcomings of any law on the establishment of a fund. You don't even have what the founding capital is. You don't even have a provision on the means, whose property they're in! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29740	National MP Dragisa Marinkovic is not present. The word is by MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29741	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee Fund, and the reason for the adoption is, you say, the improvement of the economic environment; to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, particularly given the positive effects of general economic development and job creation. This is another law in the domain of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, if it is known that we have passed the Law on the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises. That it is necessary, says the fact that the share of small and medium-sized enterprises in business activity in the total economy was about 15%, and in capital over 10%, in business income more than 30%, and in business profit more than 60%. I think that in the period of transition and restructuring of the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises should take the role, to mitigate the consequences of transition and transition to the market economy. In these conditions of business, the question arises whether they can, especially when considering the biggest problem of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia -- lack of financial resources and difficulties in their security. Banks are most often turned towards financing large enterprises, while for financing small and medium-sized enterprises there is no interest in banks; because of the risk due to lack of security, mortgage or stock funds, without talking about high interest rates, without grace period, with a high commission of banks. That is why you suggest that the state assumes the commitment of financial and non-financial support to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. Article 6 provides that the Fund's resources are to be used in accordance with the law, statutes of the Fund and the Fund's work programme. This is not disputed, but I believe that the Fund needs to place free funds in the short term into small and medium-sized enterprises, not, say, business policy of the Fund to be investment in business banks, large enterprises or similar economic or non-economic entities. I also believe that the Fund should issue guarantees, i.e. superguarantee on behalf of ensuring the total amount of credit that banks or other financial organisations in the Republic of Serbia approve of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, rather than parts of credit granted. There is no need to limit it to part, because in practice, there will be a lack of security funds, and for the rest of the credit if we know about mortgage or stock or what stock, let's say, on movable things, it's not adequately regulated, in terms of the possibility of providing movable things in stock, as well as the unsettled situation in land books, which, to a large extent, prevents the use of mortgages. I hope these shortcomings will be addressed in the process of passing the next laws. I believe that the operations of the Fund should be regulated by the budgetary inspection in terms of the control law, and everything in the sense of the Budgetary System Act that we have adopted at this assembly does not slow down the fact that the control is carried out by the auditor and his report is being examined by the Supervisory Board of the Fund. I also believe that the Management Board should submit a report on the operations of the Fund, not only to the Government, every six months, but also to the National Assembly, regardless of what the Presidents and members of the Management Board are appointed by the Government, taking into account the importance of developing small and medium-sized enterprises and taking measures by the state to ensure that small enterprises are fully developed by financial and other measures. We cannot ignore the fact that banks have entered this year with greater liquidity, but not increased credit activity towards the economy, but deposits have been used for second-hand placements; and that, by placing extra dinars in foreign currency, and by order of the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the amount of loans that businesses can take by the end of the year is limited to 100,000 euros. The delay in investment is the main reason, i.e. the cause of the weakening of economic dynamics, which is precisely what concerns. During the first four months, there was no key assumption of sustainable economic growth; the acceleration of investment growth, and investment is a key problem of sustainability of economic growth, through the sustainability of external and fiscal debt. The reality is that business investments will be lower than planned, because this is certain, and that is confirmed by the governor of the National Bank when he said it was unrealistic to expect two billion dollars of foreign direct investment to enter Serbia this year. That is, it confirms the fact that from 1997 until today, SRJ has entered 1.8 billion euros in foreign direct investment, some less than half a million euros last year, so the reality of foreign direct investment is what it is. Funds for the establishment and start of the Fund's work are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Our businessmen are constantly pointing to the problem of stimulating production, and they've always been given the answer that there's no money, so I'm asking, is there money for these purposes, if it's known that at the beginning of this year the budget has some problems with the inflow of funds? Indeed, worrying about the decline in income in January compared to December, 51.9%, and the direct cause is reduced economic activity, the payout of the population, primarily on the basis of earnings. We need to welcome everything that speeds up economic activity, and if it's going to be through a guarantee fund, we'll see. It is now known that the level of industrial production in the first three months of this year in Serbia is lower than in last year's 6.4%; it signals that industrial production will be a serious problem for the domestic economy this year, as well as for the growth of unemployment if it is known that by 3.7% the number of employees compared to January last year, while the number of people looking for a job has increased by as much as 18% compared to January last year. We will discuss this in more detail when we talk about the draft employment law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29742	The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29743	In accordance with Article 134. The Rules of Procedure which states: "The draft law, drawn up in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, can be included in the agenda of the National Assembly session within no shorter than 15 days and no longer than 60 days from the day of its submission. In exceptional cases, the deadline of 60 days may be exceeded, but no longer than 30 days, and the president of the National Assembly will inform the MPs of the reasons for the overrun. The deadlines laid down in Article 1 rest when the National Assembly is not in a regular session." We received the bill on August 8th last year, which is almost nine months. This violates the provisions of this article, and we cannot discuss this law today unless the Government reiterates the bill, so refer it back to the Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, we cannot discuss the law today. Since the President of the Assembly has not even informed us of the specific circumstances that could have led to the overrun of the deadline, only 90 days, when the agenda was set, so we here under the provisions of this Rules of Procedure cannot discuss this law; since we had a regular session last year, after submitting the draft of this law, and that we are already deep in this ordinary sitting, we are hardly able to discuss the proposal for this law unless we harshly violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29744	On the statement of objection, to Article 134. Rules of Procedure, it would be worth giving an explanation that you brought it out during the adoption of the agenda. Since you appear after the Assembly has decided to adopt the agenda, there is no point in reason. National MP Petar Cvetkovic... Would you like a meeting of the Administrative Board? The other one? MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29745	In accordance with Article 28, the President of the Assembly is concerned about the application of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, so MPs are obliged to follow and respect this Rules of Procedure, but besides all others, they are obliged to do, above all, the President and, above all, the President of the Assembly and the Secretariat of the Assembly. I believe that the President of the Assembly did not respect the Rules of Procedure when forming and proposing the agenda, and there was a serious breach of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. If you do not give a valid explanation, I will certainly request that the administrative committee be declared on the violation of these provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29746	I suppose this second remark on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, since I have not heard a member, refers to a general attitude on ageing and orderly conduct, I have not heard the title, or the number of members. You'll get an explanation. The Management Board will be scheduled for tomorrow and will give you an explanation for the violation of the Rules of Procedure which you have made of Articles 134 and 128. Deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29747	The President-in-Office, although we all have an obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure, to know him and to rule him as he says, above all, the President-in-Office of the Assembly, has this obligation, and since neither the chairman has to know everything nor are aware of it, are not in a position to see and hear everything, so that MPs, or the heads of Parliament clubs, can, among other things, point out such harsh violations of the Rules of Procedure, it would be good for the Secretary of the National Assembly to do their job, because I am calling on the member of the 34th, and that I am advertising to make sure that all acts that go to the National Assembly are in line with the work of the National Assembly in the preparation and management of the session, as it is the Head of the Service of the National Assembly, and that would be the ones who would have to account for whether all acts that go to the National Assembly are in accordance with the Rules of Procedures of Procedure, the Assembly, the Assembly, the General of the General of the General of the Assembly, the Assembly, the General of the General of the Assembly, the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the Assembly of the General of the General of the Assembly of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the Assembly of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the President of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of the General of The fact that you don't have an adequate secretary who doesn't do what he needs to do, but that's why he doesn't have to do what he doesn't have to do, so when an MP schedules a press conference, she doesn't make sure that this press conference is held, but she says it's my right, I decide whether you hold a press conference or not. She did it once, and I don't think she'll think of it again! This is now an extraction on the Administrative Board, since you are not able to give an appropriate explanation for the advertising of Rules of Procedure by Mr. Michael, and you probably won't be able to do the advertising of my Rules of Procedure either. The Management Board will not be able to remove the adverse consequences after the debate on this law has been concluded. I would just like you to tell me that if the Administrative Board, God forbid, finds that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, or that the bill today is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, how are we going to remove this adverse consequence? You know very well how to explain everything. Use all your physics skills and explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29748	I would be happy to use my knowledge of physics and I would be happy to share it with you, because there are a number of endlessly interesting information concerning both politics and communication and entropy, like the states of each system. Article 34 hasn't been broken. The Secretary of the National Assembly shall regularly inform both the President and the Vice-President of all matters relating to the establishment of the agenda. This agenda was formed in agreement with the Parliamentary College. He was at the adoption of the Assembly and there was also a chance and reason to challenge the argument that the president of the National Assembly and myself had. Since you have the right to seek, do you want a meeting of the Administrative Committee? Yeah. ) If the MPs remembered the Rules of Procedure again, since we were talking about him for ten minutes, then a little respect for the same. Therefore, the Administrative Board will make decisions on the objections raised to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic. (Dejan Michaels: To talk about the law. ( ) If you want strict respect for the Rules of Procedure, strictly and strictly to care for application, it is hard for you to get the word when the debate began in principle. You would have to be in the O.R. when in the order of discussion in particular, Article 137 and Article 136, which regulates the debate in principle, gives the order: to the proposing representative; to the rapporteur of the committee responsible, to the presidents, or to representatives of parliamentary groups and to an authorised representative, or to a member of the Government, if he is present. There is no other than the good practice to which MP Velimir Simonovic was also called, the right of MPs to choose time, as president of the parliamentary group, when they will address the Assembly, but MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group - on behalf of tolerance and unwritten rules in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29749	I don't know if we should be grateful that you allow us to speak in this congregation, since the citizens chose us. I think we should especially respect the right to speak. I think, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the way we've worked so far, the presidents of the parliamentary groups get a word in the moment they ask. That was practice before, and now it is! I don't see the Rules of Procedure restricting that right. The Rules of Procedure only define the order to be agreed on in the beginning, and otherwise, it is foreseen that they have the right to speak twice in ten minutes, so that at the beginning, in the middle or at the end of the debate, they can speak. I don't see you coming out to anyone special. I think you're just doing the Rules of Procedure the way it says. But let's get back to the agenda. If this law is important, as the minister himself says, let's take it seriously and trust it, then we should ask ourselves why nine months, since August of the month, did not enter the procedure? If nine months is a short period, and we're talking about a transition that is our desperate need, about changes that can't wait, about reforms that are in motion, about all these processes that are under way, why are we waiting for nine months, why is one law of nine months sour in a drawer? Why, if he's so important? I think this law is important, and I would agree with the minister here, the DSS will vote for this law, as well as the law on the lease. We believe that these laws are important and that they, in some ways, may contribute to the construction of small and medium-sized enterprises and perhaps, in shades, will contribute to the environment that can create and support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. But the question remains why is the nine-month deadline in which the reform laws shrink, from the day of submission to the day of coming to debate in this assembly? There's probably so much reform that those most important reform laws can't come to the agenda because you're tired of all the reforms. From the hard work on reform laws, we just got this bill. But, well, you know best how reforms and reforms are best told by statistics. Statistics say the decline in industrial production in Serbia (March of last year - March of this year), the decline in average earnings, which are the fact that we have an increase in the unemployment rate Sir, for your problems, on your insistence, I will ask Mr. Vojnović to take you in and have a serious conversation with you, because you are obviously pulling traumas from an earlier period. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Mr. Vojnovic, I would like to ask you to see Mr....
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29750	People's MP, I would ask you to remember the Rules of Procedure, not to communicate with MPs anywhere in the benches and return to the agenda topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29751	In that situation, you need to warn them not to. If they're asking me to ask Professor Vojinovic to take them in, I can't refuse their request, they're still my fellow MPs. I believe that it was one of the better laws that we adopted in this assembly, not because the law is like law, but because it went into the formation of a Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency through law. It is one of the few agencies that has been formed by law and one of the few agencies that is not anti-constitutional. The agency was formed in this congregation, and it was a promising agency, which was said to be the key to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, without this guarantee fund, is simply a dead letter on paper. Neither has it been revived, nor has the regional network of small and medium-sized enterprises developed. In addition to the consulting that is probably needed by our people in order to be able to engage in the development and establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises, there is also a need for something called capital, something called investment, credits are needed. It is necessary that the funds allocated from the Fund for Development and other funds, which are allocated to large systems, which are set aside for buying social peace and which are set aside not for development and not for starting up production, but which are set aside to settle down some local apparatus or to buy some more social peace. In this way, the problem in Serbia is not solved, and we think, personally, that spending on funds, simple and large funds, which were in a number of large enterprises, is not a way to solve it, but it is simply a way to put these problems off and to get us to a concrete solution to the problem, which is transition, it is privatisation, we cannot possibly get there. The regional network of the agency didn't come back to life. A lot of privates and businessmen, looking for the services of this agency, didn't get them. Because it didn't come to life and this agency didn't have the resources and because it didn't have enough quality personnel. How are we going to stimulate people to open up small and medium-sized enterprises? Is the Guarantee Fund with its founding or initial capital of 600 million dinars, currently less than 10m euros, enough to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. to guarantee the loans they would take. Here, more counts are that banks, which are to invest, will be at risk of lending. What foreign bank, a serious bank, a high-quality and strong bank, is going to bear the risk of credit and go into business in our country at all, where there is no elemental legal certainty? What serious foreign bank will come? Not one of them. Here, after almost two and a half years of reform and transition, we do not have any of the world's most serious banks present in Serbia. We have mostly banks that don't have that much capital at our disposal. We have banks that have pulled part of the foreign potential out of here and that foreign currency or one part of that foreign potential will return. The second part will not, unfortunately, be returned to our economy. We are talking about the need to stimulate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. And to stimulate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is not just enough to guarantee the Fund and it is not enough just to say that there is one figure or sum, which is really not big and the minister will also agree that 600 million dinars are not enough for a guarantee fund to make it sufficient to make more serious investments to guarantee banks and everyone else for investment. But simply, if something has to start then this may be some legal framework to start with, but certainly more important than this legal framework is an environment in which to work. This was about curbing the grey economy and spilling funds from the gray economy into legal flows and thus speeding up the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises. A number of 400,000 small and medium-sized enterprises has been mentioned in a short term. You'll admit it's pretty much a big number. If you take how much money it takes to set up a small or medium-sized enterprise, if you take how much money it takes to make this company work, if you take it that there are no special tax breaks, if you take that you don't have legal certainty, if you take that to import into our country everything and everything, that there is no protection of our market, that there is no protection of the small and medium-sized economy, then we can talk here about an environment that is extremely problematic. This law is something that is not harmful and which can in some ways, if it starts with proper application, improve the implementation and simple establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises, but certainly will remain a dead letter on paper unless other things and other very important components for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises change. We have one devastating environment. We have an environment in which privatisation does not give the right effects, or where privatisation is not stimulating and is not a driving force for the development of the economy, is not a driving force for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. If we talk about the effects of privatisation, then we can ask ourselves why, if the effects of reform and privatisation and all state interventions in the area of economy are so good, we record the decline in production. Why the increase in unemployment rates and why the decline in average earnings is recorded. Someone will say that transition processes mean firing, recession, rising unemployment rates, that later you would be working again through investment funds, which we get from privatisation, into small and medium-sized enterprises. So, there should be a transfer of funds from privatisation to funds for small and medium-sized enterprises, that these companies grow and simply depreciate the inflow, i.e. an increase in the unemployment rate, that they gather or collect those people who remain unemployed and employ them through small and medium-sized enterprises. It's theoretically supposed to look like that and that's the theoretical concept that's been talked about here and that's what a lot of people have advocated. What are the results of this concept better and not to talk. We see them at every turn. The results and consequences of such a concept are mostly negative. How can you fly over funds for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises if you sell sugar cane for three euros? Of course you can't! How can you fly over funds for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises if your privatisation funds go directly to cover the budget deficit, or social programmes, if they are to a small extent envisaged for investments? Of course you can't! This way privatisation, which has been created for generations, is spent once, and that way we don't come into a position that we can run an economic cycle to that extent and in the way that we're talking about here. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed amendments to this law to improve control under the Budgetary System Act, guarantees provided by the Guarantee Fund, since 600 million dinars are allocated from the Republic budget, and according to the Budgetary System Act, it is the government, or the competent ministry, which controls the spending of these funds. Our amendments go towards controlling the spending of these funds and thus enables the Assembly, through the debate on the final account, to control how funds from the Guarantee Fund were used. In this way, we want to increase the authority of the Assembly, that this Assembly, through the Committee on Finance, through the Committee on Development and through all other committees that are responsible, comes into the situation to control how these funds are spent and that in this way simply, this assembly is the place to decide whether the funds are being spent in accordance with the law, whether they are being spent in full or whether these funds are used to fill the pockets of those close to the authorities and the regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-15-0.u29752	This concludes today's work and continues the session on Tuesday, May 20th, at 10.00 p.m., continuing the debate in principle. The first registered speaker is MP Petar Cvetkovic, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 119 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform the National Assembly that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Branimir Trajkovic, Milan Radulović, Marko Jaksic, Juhas Atila, Radoslav Veseninović, Predrag Stojanović, Miodrag Stamenković, Emilia Krstic, Dusan Ilic and Dusica Angelkovic, and in the morning, MPs Miomir Tadic and Gvosden Jovanovic. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Natasa Micic, invited students to this session for parliamentary practice organised by the Fund - Center for the Development of Democracy. In her name and in your name, I welcome the guests present. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the GARANCE FOND (the follow-up in principle) According to the order of the elected Members of the People's Parliament, according to the application for a word in the principle of the search, the People's MP Petar Cvetkovic, followed by the MP Dragoljub Stamenković.
