ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25765	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 150 MPs attend the session. Please insert your identification cards into your MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Dragoslav Bošković, Milan Radulović, Zivica Predojev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Mujo Muković, Kasa Jožef, Jelena Maslovar-Ralević and Radmilo Misović; in the morning: Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Cedomir Jovanovic, Gordana Comić, Dusan Petković, Biači Anton, Juhas Atila, Išpanovic Istvan and Srdjan Petrovic; late Predrag Stojanović, Mirko Rosic, Milos Lučić and Bojan Pajtic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE DUVAN (the follow-up in detail) Reminds you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 6 February of this year, during an amendment to article 12 submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic, interrupted the work, and that the search was attended by MP Goran Cvetanovic, the applicant for the amendment. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right in Article 137? Rules of Procedure, he wants to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, the MPs together: Dusan Cvetkovic, Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević submitted to the 12th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal. Do the applicants want a word? There is a word from the applicant for the amendment, MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25766	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just don't understand one thing - why the government accepted one amendment, and the other which is in the same text is not. It would mean here to accept both amendments, because from word to word, from point to point, it's all the same. Maybe there's someone out there who can't read because our amendment says the same thing in the amendment of fellow MPs from the SPS, which you accepted. This is the same thing, that, instead of once, twice a year, the agency is also doing it towards the government and the government towards parliament. But maybe someone in the government will take a little bit better to read, and then they'll realize that two things when they're the same, then you should either accept them both, or both of them refuse. One you accept, one you refuse, then someone has a basic read-and-discover problem of what's written there. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25767	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bora Stanimirović, Zivodarka Dacin, Rade Bajic and Milos Nesovic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, a number of SPS MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 13, which reads: "Only the types and classes of tobacco established by the federal regulation can be produced." We are asking that this word be deleted by the " federal" because by adopting the Constitutional Charter in the federal parliament last week, practically the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia ceased to exist, and hence the federal regulations. We find the argument given by the government quite unargumented. Namely, the argument states that, if the word is deleted, in which case all those regulations that were adopted earlier during the FNRJ, about 1956-1957, during the SFRJ, during the SRJ, will be deemed not to have been adopted. In fact, this is about one technical correction. I would ask the government's representatives to adopt this, because there is no reason, if we created a state union between Serbia and Montenegro, which is by its character the Union, and by no means a federal state, something similar to Austria in its time, from 1867 to 1918. There are only two differences. First of all, the difference is as far as the state itself is concerned, because there was a monarchy with the Emperor in Vienna, with a king in Pest, and in our case, we have a president of the state union based in Belgrade, and the President of the Podgorica-based court. There's no other difference. Therefore, the alliance of states is a simple state where the name federal cannot be used. Therefore, and starting from today, we have regulations that were valid 15, 20 and more years ago during all these Yugoslavias that existed, we suggest that this Article 13 reads: "Only the types and classes of tobacco provided for by the regulations of the previous Yugoslavia can be produced." It's the only solution, because the alliance of states is not the same as the federal state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25769	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? He has the word from the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25770	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I'll just say a few words for a moment. Professor Bora Stanimirovic explained here our ideas and reasons for submitting this amendment. I just want to underline that we have not questioned the regulations that have been cited in the reasons for not accepting this amendment. We don't put any of these regulations out of force. We just want to avoid what's in this proposal, to refer to federal regulations. The state is no longer what it was. Your will has been changed by the will of the majority in this congregation. The will of the majority has also established a law implementing this charter, it has also been established by the will of the majority and the federal parliament, and from now on there is a community of the two countries that are likely to regulate this matter themselves with their own regulations. We have given this solution that this matter, when it comes to Article 13, is governed by regulations without the prefix "national", or by an individual community within the common state. So, nothing bothers you. We think this solution is better and better than the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25771	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you interrupted the session, because you couldn't secure the quorum, and first it's inappropriate for us to continue the debate on this law without the minister. Until a moment ago, there was an unidentified face, and it wasn't the first time. If the gentleman comes back again, I ask the chairman to explain to us who this man is, who came probably on behalf of the government. If the government hadn't had exactly the honorable intentions, as Minister Djelic wanted to present, in the construction of this legal project, we knew much earlier. In fact, the Serbian Radical Party and its president tried to get to know the public. This is very important because the article, which I have submitted the amendment to, is a member of the 15th Law treats the conditions for tobacco processors, so last year, somewhere in April, there are doubts that the law is actually being made and tailored so that it corresponds to monopolies and those whose hands are not clean in the tobacco trade business; we have already mentioned some of these incriminating characters here, Stanko Subotica - Caneta Zappac, a certain Peconi, etc. It is said in this article that strict conditions are for those who need to process tobacco. If we know and know the general public and all those who buy cigarettes on the street that a certain Pecconi is not processed at all by tobacco, but by a completely processed product here only packing, if we know that this production that it has multiplely increased for only one brand of cigarettes (fast) of 20 types of cigarettes produced in the Duvanska industry Vranje and Nis, then the promoters cannot convince us either by this member or by the whole law, and especially because of the establishment of the agency, which is completely monopolitic because of its composition and what it will do, how it will work, that their intentions have been honorable. Because the Assembly was preparing to vote this law precisely because companies, except for individual, but above all our tobacco industries, would shut down production, because the fact that these cigarettes, which are not newspapers, and are bought on the street, have twice as much production as our two tobacco factories. On the other hand, the multiplication of the administration, the strengthening of the bureaucratic apparatus is shown in this article, because why it is necessary for the agency to, (if the proposing's intentions are honorable and not) do these tasks as set out in Article 15. It's a bill of law. Why, when does the agency act as a government body? Instead of deciding on the matter, the ministry's competent inspections are now being done by the agency. The minister assured us that these and other cigarettes, which I mentioned, were advertised, although they were; and our deputy president told him that this could lead to criminal charges. Avi, gentlemen of the DOS, because of the overall situation, you could promote yourself with a single advert and say they're being bought in the Assembly, but they're not MPs, their mandate has expired.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25773	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? The word has the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendments to the draft tobacco law have tried to prove to you in one objective debate that this tobacco agency is unnecessary and that you have not clearly convinced us that the tobacco law should have been written solely because another agency is being established, another channel that will be poured out by budget users. Article 15 is very rigorous, even in relation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 15 and points 8 and 9, which we are trying to change to these amendments, speak of the agency being above the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because there are conditions under heading 1, which must be met by the entrepreneur, i.e. the company involved in confirming quality and quantity, buying, processing, as well as the traffic of processed tobacco; the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in that position is determined by the agency, but imagine, with the previously obtained agreement of the two ministries. What are the ministries in the Republic of Serbia for? To give some superministers opinions. Is there executive authority over the government of the Republic of Serbia? Why is it a tobacco agency above the government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, why would the Minister of Health or Minister of Agriculture be obliged to give an opinion to an agency? Is that what government law obliges them to do? Does the government law say - the National Assembly elects a minister to give opinions to some who are above it and who are not elected by the National Assembly? It's incomprehensible. I know that it is sweet money, and that many do not sow seed, nor harvest, nor dry, nor ferment, nor process it; and money goes into their pocket. It's just enough to show up for a congregation pay phone or somewhere on TV, or to vote for a law that the mob makes even more income for itself. But think about it a little bit, what you're all involved in, and please, at least you who are written, read some of the bill you're voting for at times. It remains recorded as who voted and who voted for what law. None of you are going out for a pay phone yet to convince me that we need a tobacco agency, nor are you convinced that we need it. They wrote mobsters that you should and you will vote for it. This is mob law, and if I wanted to bang, Milisave, I'd have someone in this Serbia, I wouldn't stop for days.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25775	No more reported word after this amendment. Parliamentarians Dusan Cvetkovic, Ljubisa Maravic, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic together. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25776	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 15 speaks of conditions for tobacco processors. In Article 15, in paragraph 1, we proposed that the words "entrepreneur" be deleted and that instead of those words, the words "sugar processor" should stand. Since the entire member of the proposed law stands - the tobacco processor, we see no reason why even in this attitude one should not stand - the tobacco processor, because this Article 15 right now refers to these people, means tobacco processors. In the second part of our amendment, we suggested that the 5th word: "carriage and" be deleted. As proposed here in paragraph 5, the means of transport and packaging intended for transport, or the transfer of tobacco, cannot be used for other purposes. As far as the tobacco transfer packaging is concerned, it's perfectly fine and acceptable, that it can't be used for hygiene reasons for other purposes, but as far as the means of transport are concerned, we don't think it can stand in the law, because it basically means that the government wants to create a monopoly on tobacco transport. The means of transport include, as you know, airplanes, ships, trucks with so-called. By container transport, so it's complete nonsense that this attitude stands in the law. I suggest that the National Assembly accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25777	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is from MP Joca Arsic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25778	A fellow Milan has tried to convince government representatives, who unfortunately are not there, to accept this amendment and has listed our reasons for submitting such an amendment. I'm just going to underline that this argument is to be precise, without accepting a tobacco processor as a term, it's not standing, because the following text is applied everywhere by the term tobacco processor. In attitude 1 after "entrepreneur and company", the tobacco processor says. It's normal to process tobacco entrepreneurs or businesses. That comes from the other one. It is said here that special transport vehicles must be used and packaging cannot be transported. For packaging, said counterpart Milan, that's quite all right. But with means of transport - does this mean that whoever picks tobacco from the field will have to hire a special vehicle to transport it to the first processor? Does this mean that someone will have an absolute monopoly to arrange vehicles that will only be used for the transport of tobacco? Today the means of transport are very modern, using different forms. We fully agree that they should be marked, that tobacco is known to be transported. This will allow for greater control of tobacco transport, but final products. So we have a problem -- if this provision is strictly applied, someone will have to hire a special vehicle to transport tobacco from the field to the first processor. I think this proposal and this situation is absurd, with a firm view of maintaining this solution that was proposed in the very text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25779	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the national emissary Vitomir Plužarević, the applicant of the amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a tobacco law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. The tobacco law that I suggest is deleted in Article 17. He regulates agencies. This law also has negative provisions in it. But how can I, in such a short business term, process it all -- that's impossible. Tobacco is the problem of the whole world, and that's the problem with us. This agency wants the government to create a new interest, or monopoly, in order to control this activity. As far as the agency is concerned, we've had enough of that. No one alive knows which agencies are open or what they serve, so this agency, which is proposed by this position in Article 17, is intended only to establish a monopoly in tobacco movement. You know who's doing the monopoly and who's doing the honors. Why has this law not been implemented immediately or immediately after the arrival of DOS to power? It's for the comment I leave to you, respected DOS gentlemen, that you think about it. Once the state had people who called themselves financials, and they prevented illegal trade and thus protected the state's budget. This agency will not be able to protect this activity. The law mentions that the agency will be controlled in the course of the year, even twice. That's ridiculous! The assembly today is unable to control and give arguments at a given time, related to the Administrative Board, not to control the tobacco agency. It doesn't make any sense and it's inconclusive. Usually, these agencies, which form known and unknown clans, appear. And we know what clans do today. The agency is also problematic in commenting that it will also conduct tenders, and we know that these tenders are also suspicious today. This is evident in the privatisation process. Whoever calls the tender can immediately set up a monopoly with the tender. We suggest that this agency be replaced by public bidding. We also have a comment that through small factories the competition process is opened and that this competition produces quality. That would also create high-quality tobacco brands. These mini factories could probably be controlled by government authorities. Someone in their presentation mentioned that this was one of the reform laws. He's basically not. All these reform laws that would follow tobacco would have to fundamentally transform that into a new quality, and that quality is human protection, protecting the human environment. The tobacco is harmful to health, that's evident. Only in our country is it regulated by any law and not regulated by this law. Cigarettes and tobacco are advertised at every turn, so this law does not meet the above mentioned standards in this context. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. We are also mentioned as the oldest people in Europe. No one commented that today our children, or young people, are using tobacco, and that they have already received some of their suffering from that tobacco that has far - reaching effects on the entire population that is yet to come. The tobacco law is the law on the legalization of tobacco smuggling. This law does not regulate the production of domestic tobacco, but destimulates it. Article 22. give permission, and we know how. Article 25 takes away those permits, we know how. The aim of this law is to destroy our production, and to start importing cigarettes because we are the great consumers of these strange foreign cigarettes. The Agency shall then pursue all its objectives.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25781	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25782	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 17, paragraph 3, to which we have submitted the amendment, i.e. the position we wish to exclude from the tobacco law, states that the tobacco processor is obliged to keep records of the quantity and quality of the raw tobacco produced, the quantity and quality of bought-out and the quality of processed and sold tobacco; that this report, with the data contained in this report, is submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture's department three months after the end of the quarter, within 10 days. Item 3 states: "The record of the Article 1, in the form of appropriate electronic processing, shall be submitted by the Ministry of Position 2 of this Member to the Agency within 20 days of the end of the quarter." One binding norm again. The Ministry of Agriculture must coordinate the records, be processed electronically, and have that record delivered to the tobacco agency. Now the legislator in response to our amendment says, conveyed to say what he said: "Putting the total production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products in Serbia into legal frameworks can only be carried out by one special organisation, to this end by the draft law defined as a tobacco agency." He wants to tell us the Government of the Republic of Serbia - if we don't establish this agency, there is no one honest, no professional, no quality to care about legal flows, the quality of tobacco, tax payments, etc. Then, in the end, to underestimate the National Assembly, because it seems that the proposal is not enough that the government is underestimated by the establishment of a tobacco agency, so it says - this agency is a public service established by the Republic of Serbia. Well, it won't be. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia establishes an agency, the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the government, does not establish it. Just what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is establishing, it is founded by the Republic of Serbia, and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is establishing and what the Government is setting up, both the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board have not established, the Republic of Serbia. This was founded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not the Republic of Serbia. You may think so, you can act as if Serbia is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it is not, but the Republic of Serbia is here, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) Here the citizens are represented through the representatives elected in the elections. Never forget that. If the Governing Board were to choose the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we could say that the government of Serbia established a tobacco agency, but since it would not have occurred to us that what you do is what we do, and since you seem to have put a lot of money into the budget, so you can waste it on different agencies, and you don't see that people don't even suffer anymore, but they're only grinding their teeth, you can pass this law, you have a majority for hundreds of meaningless laws, but this has to change very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25783	I'm warning you, for the second time, that you've exceeded your allowed time. Thank you. No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 18th amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment as incomplete, so it cannot be discussed at the session of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure. (Božidar Vucurovic, from the place: Where does it say?) The government gave an explanation. ) You also have a report from the Legislative Committee, as of February 6, read. You also have a Rules of Procedure, Article 142. Thank you. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dusan Cvetkovic, Ljubisa Maravic, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, representative of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25785	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished fellow MPs, the esteemed impasse voters, the SPS parliamentary group participates in the discussion of the tobacco law, both in principle and in amendments, once again shows that even when it disagrees with what the government proposes in its legislative proposals it is trying in the best possible way to help our farmers in the production of tobacco, it allows them to change things and make them better. That this is evidence is that we have also submitted more than 20 amendments under this legislative proposal, that the largest number of SPS amendments have been accepted, that the largest number of ideas we have submitted at the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture has also been accepted and that this law has also been given in quality. When it comes to Article 18. The SPS proposes, or its parliamentary group, that a certain change be made in this article and that Article 2 is amended and read as follows: "The retail trade of small tobacco products can be done by an undertaking, i.e. an entrepreneur in accordance with this law". The basic proposal again states that this should be a company that has some kind of approval, etc. We think there's really no reason for this new provision to be re-introduced, because it's regulated through the other members of this law, and I think it's just in accordance with this law enough. This once again shows that these legal proposals that come before the congregation home have to pass some kind of lecturing and that it is necessary to do this job as soon as possible. All that is regulated in Article 34, that those who want to trade cigarettes in retail must contact the retailing agency with a request, etc., all of this is arranged in Article 34, and Article 37 also does not regulate that the agency they address for a retail license does not run a retail register, so it is another fact that requires such a change to this legislative proposal. In an explanation of the Government that was given, with this amendment not being accepted, it is practically all that I have said, relating to Article 34 and Article 37, covered, so I think it is absolutely necessary to accept this amendment, because it only changes the part that harmonizes this article with the other members of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25786	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic (infringement of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25787	Ms. Micic, you have now informed us that the Legislative Committee on the basis of Article 142, which you have inserted into the Rules of Procedure, since democracy entered the Serbian Parliament, has rejected the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Vukurovic as incomplete. You predicted that due to three conditions, the amendment could be rejected - as an untimely, incomplete, or an amendment with an offensive content. The amendment of MP Bozidar Vukurovic was seduced in the Serbian Parliament on February 1st, which means it is time-consuming. The amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Vukurovic contains the provision of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure, under which the amendment has been tabled, shall contain the text of the amendment, which shall relate to a member of the draft law and shall contain an explanation of the amendments submitted by the MP. There's also a signature of a MP. Now I ask these smart-ass from the Legislative Committee and you who take it for granted to answer me what is incomplete in the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Vukurovic? If you introduce such a practice, you can throw away all the amendments to all the draft laws; the Assembly of them according to Article 2 simply doesn't discuss at all, the law passes, what happens after that, what are the consequences? I hear you're a lawyer, Mrs. Micic, and since you've been a MP for two years, you should at least be convinced that what you're interpreting from the pay phone is correct. Now I ask you to answer me - what is incomplete in the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Vučurovic, and to direct me now, Mrs Micicic, who can use the legal remedy of the SRS parliamentary group, the applicant for the amendment, when the Legislative Committee, which should interpret the Rules of Procedure, in our opinion, has injured the Rules of Procedure and rejected the perfectly correct amendment, even the substantive correct amendment. The assembly can decide - either the company's activity will be registered in the Commercial Court or will act if approved by the agency. It is decided by the Assembly, but both solutions are entirely possible. Cars are produced by a company registered with the Court of Commerce, not by the Agency. Medicines are produced and sold by a company registered at the Court of Commerce, not by an agency. You say the tobacco is the only one that's registered with the agency. We say, whoever's at the Court of Commerce can do it, but you can't reject that amendment as incomplete. The day will come for the vote, that day we may not have a majority for this amendment... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) Don't warn me, a man would have to freak out from your warnings to overtime; I show you how you step on a MP whose job it is to write amendments. Do you write that an incomplete amendment that is complete?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25788	You have advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure; I am here to apply the Rules of Procedure, not to decide on amendments. On the basis of a report by the Legislative Committee on 6 February, which assessed the amendment of MP Bozidar Vukurovic as incomplete, the amendment could not enter the procedure. So if we give what you were talking about earlier, if you really want to appreciate the role of the Assembly, then you have to appreciate the bodies, and that's the Legislative Committee. I am sorry that Mr Bozidar Vucurovic did not attend and did not defend his amendment. It's not just about writing amendments, it's about these amendments being discussed at committee meetings. Therefore, I have a report from the Legislative Committee, and I do not decide to reject the amendments. The Legislative Committee has rejected, I am applying Rules of Procedure - Article 142 paragraph 5, which says: "Refused amendments cannot be discussed at the session of the National Assembly". In addition, it is incorrect not to hold a debate on amendments. In total, two amendments were rejected. So, those who are complete, who have passed the Legislative Committee, are the subject of debate. Are you asking for a statement from the Administrative Board? Yeah. ) I ask the Administrative Board to explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 142, of MP Tomislav Nikolic. So, you're not going as an authorised representative, do you want a word? Yeah. ) Here's a word from MP Joca Arsic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25789	A colleague, Cvetkovic, gave a pretty good explanation of our claim that this amendment that we have proposed to the Assembly should be adopted on the day of the vote. However, I must repeat that we do not have a representative of the government again, not from the Ministry of Agriculture, not from the Ministry of Finance. I don't understand how the government will plead on these amendments if it doesn't watch television broadcasts and maybe monitor the Assembly or have an official to do so. I don't think it bothers the assembly majority to accept this amendment. It will not endanger the law or the essence of the law, nor the concept of the law, but will allow for easier and easier licenses and pro-functional sales, ranging from wholesale to final consumer, to retail; without talking about the need or harmfulness of tobacco, much is said about it. If we're already editing one matter, I think we should edit it in a simpler way, and it doesn't make any complications in any further work, or in the implementation of this law, if we're willing to adopt this law and do it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25790	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go. So it's a complete and timely amendment to which the debate is being held.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 19 is talking about the tender. The SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 19 proposing that this member be completely deleted. The reasons for this intention of the SRS lie in the fact that the tender is both a phenomenon and a concept in our society, in our newer democratic society (let's call it such) and political life has not lived as it should and as it happens in a normal, modern world. That is why the SRS suggests that this member be deleted. The tender might be fine, however, in the proposal of this member, when you read that a public tender for obtaining permits and for producing tobacco products is organised and implemented by the agency. It would be okay if we were some normal society where democracy really came into life, where political and social life is fine. Since DOS is in power, nothing can be wrong anymore. That is why it is also proposed to delete the tender, which is why it is proposed that there is no agency, so it is proposed that the entire legal project be withdrawn. This isn't really the tobacco law, this is actually modern materials for a project or a material project. The law can't be in any way. Why can't he? Because as long as DOS is in power, the tender is like a concept and as a phenomenon, it's insulted and disabling. We're coming up with a circle square. We've got a tender, it's being conducted by the agency, and the agency means monopoly, meaning certain machinations, so even the possibility of crime, and we have DOS. We get to one closed circle, and that's it. The minister said, when he spoke to us and explained the whole law, that this was interdepartmentary law. Whoever was listening to him couldn't understand what that meant to him. Only in Article 4 of this law can we see some indigestion, perhaps a coincidence to mention somewhere here and to have the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Social Protection. Article 4 shall be prohibited from selling tobacco to minors and shall be determined that tobacco is harmful on each pack. It's the only thing about the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Security. There's no system solution to how to implement it, because tobacco is harmful and it comes to rehab, that children are educated so they don't spend it. There's not a word about agriculture. Well, according to that, what's inter-minor? Let's talk about trying to stimulate the state and the production of tobacco, and the selection of seeds of quality, and the ransom and premium for peasants and everything else. There's nothing. Therefore, the SRS proposes that Article 19 be deleted and there is no tender, because the tender has entered only for the manipulation of the agency; besides, the Agency's board of directors will be ministers; it closes the circle and that's it. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. I'm done. Since there will soon be elections, and knowing that DOS is in power, in mind, Serbian peoples, choose -- DOS or a worthy life.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25792	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25793	The SRS parliamentary group has made a series of amendments to Article 19 and has further tried to remove what you call a public tender from the bill, because we do not understand the purpose of such a public tender. A public tender should serve to find the one most favourable, the one who gives the most to the state, the one who will be the safest to the state. Of course, you don't always choose who's the most affordable at the price, you value some other conditions. You're calling a public tender here to determine who can do some business. It was never called a public tender. The Ministry shall establish the conditions, and anyone who fulfils the conditions shall provide evidence of the conditions met, and within a certain period of time, the administration shall be obliged to respond or to remain silent, and that shall be some sort of response. Here, in this case, the agency is calling a tender for people to meet the conditions of the tender, and only later do they get a license to do some work. What's more dictative about it? It is that a public tender for obtaining a permit, and I repeat the word "requirement", which I have never read or heard in my life, from Article 5 of Article 1 where I first found it in this law; "public tender for the production of tobacco products" – it is repeated in Article 19, so it is not a type error, this is a very written word. It would be good if the patent were registered as soon as possible, if someone hadn't stolen it from him, if there was a "do" production. The Agency will worry about this, taking care of fiscal interest, market opportunities and previously assumed commitments by the Republic in the area of tobacco production. Here's proof that you put the agency above the government of the Republic of Serbia. So the agency takes care of the fiscal interests of the Republic of Serbia. Well, then why do we need Bozidar Djelic? "The Agency takes care of market opportunities," what we need from the Minister of Interior, what we need from the Minister for Industry, what we need from the Minister of Agriculture - the agency is to worry about previously undertaken obligations of the Republic in the area of tobacco production. I would understand that you've renamed the departments as agencies, so we have a agriculture agency, an industry agency, a privatisation agency, a local self-government agency; there are no ministries and now you call it agencies, I understand, but that we also suffer from the minister and the agencies he invents and that all of this goes from the budget, it's just that in Serbia it can't stand. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) To justify the establishment of the agency you place in her jurisdiction so many jobs that are not at all in her jurisdiction. Even if you say that the agency has to worry about traffic safety, so it has specially marked tobacco transport cars, so that there are no traffic accidents, because maybe the tobacco radiates some radiation, so it affects the other traffic drivers. Get out of this crazy thing. Write something serious, people, our country is falling apart, our production is going to an end, the people are bitter, you have broken down the Constitution and the laws of this country. You write to us as some of you wrote before about growing fish in gold aquariums. You're doing something serious. Here, you're back to South Serbia because you've managed to create a multiethnic environment in which it's just packed...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25794	People's MP, I'm warning you twice over time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25795	I use my right to an MP who really works most in this congregation...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25796	Yeah, I know and you're going out, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25797	... And I don't have enough of this time you've set.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25798	You participate in the debate, as far as I know, and you constantly violate the Rules of Procedure. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Please, the word has been made by the People's Ambassador Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25799	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to clarify Article 20. What's this about? In fact, in Article 20, a member of the 18th and Article 19 is also involved. The Minister of Agriculture said tobacco is being planted, and it's being distributed, but it's less important. Why should this tender be lifted? First, in order to meet the members of 18, 19 and 20, the tender would have to be abolished because there is no prequalification for the tender. Any tender would have to have prequalifications, to see a company that deals with it, what capacities it has, whether it has a license, whether it has everything else it needs. And now a simple question -- if anyone wants to this year, for example. Some hillbilly from Melenac, he's disintegrating tobacco at half a morning, whether he has to be connected to the agency or not. There are agricultural producers that have small parcels, small fields where they grow tobacco. It's normal there's a public auction, so the game -- who's going to pay more. The tobacco has to be controlled, and that's where I agree. That's why people who have these little parcels, half morning or a few acres, should be allowed to disintegrate tobacco whenever they want, not to be connected to those agencies. There's only one example I'd like to give about that. I was very happy when the debt collection agency was introduced. I thought it was gonna start working. Here, now Minister Djelic is gone, but when he explained it, here's a day - today that agency can't do things, and it won't end up. This agency, if it goes through the tender, will selectively control and hold the monopoly. That's why I suggest that there be market economies, auctions and no tenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25800	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21 which I suggest that it be deleted. Here's an explanation: this article has invented a tender for an imaginary institution called the Agency. In your explanation of this member, you explain that several workers will be employed in this agency. Of those present in this home there are very few of you who are from the economy. One technological process can be divided into three segments -- production, control and ultimately rounding all financial flows. That's why I don't think the number of employees matches the number you think you're hiring in the agencies. Why limit the production and purchase of tobacco - produced factories? In your programme of economic recovery and liberal relations, it does not stand, because by opening smaller factories, you want to reduce unemployment and increase production, which was your goal of privatisation, and in fact it is contradictory of the tobacco law proposal. With this law, you want to create large systems. I would refer to the speeches of Minister Djelic and Minister of Agriculture Dragan Vesenov. In his speech, Minister Djelic referred to the consumption of cigarettes in Serbia and found that we are at the very top of Europe. Did Mr. Minister wonder why Serbian citizens consume this harmful product? Oh, the answer is, well, it's because of him. You have expelled workers from factories, which you have privatised, have no business, cannot meet the obligations of electricity, heating, utility, whose prices are at European level, and citizens in Serbia live at the beginning, quite miserable and humiliated. In the election campaign, you promised them prosperity and improvement, and they got a dosmanly lie about six-and-a-half billion-dollar donations. In this law, you haven't touched the one where tobacco production starts, and that's a peasant. You've forgotten a national hero who's kept the country's social peace in the previous government and in the present. In a speech by Agriculture Minister Dragan Veselinov, there was a lot of nebulosis and untruth about this economic branch. Each manufacturer of tobacco plants over one hectare is a larger producer because this production takes 10 - 15 workers per hectare. Therefore, this job was misunderstood by the minister. This work on growing tobacco plants and its harvesting and preparation until factory processing is specific and very difficult to automate, the retail production is manual. Today, farmers in Serbia are filling your budget in such a way that they get solutions for tax retroactively, backwards. In your election campaign, you told them not to meet their tax obligations and today you credit them with debt and interest because you ran out of donation money or spent it buying many factories in Serbia for yourself. What do small craftsmen who have no business in this winter period do today who have to meet their tax obligations? (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) We Serbian radicals against this law and against the opening of agencies, because again some government powers want to legalise their capitals, wash away money.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25802	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The Prime Minister accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here's a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25803	Ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to the amendment itself, I'd like to say a few words about the law in general. This law is clearly written only for the agency and traffickers of tobacco products. This law does not mention producers of raw tobacco anywhere, so neither do primary producers. I've been doing primary production for many years. I know how difficult this job is, probably one of the hardest jobs in the country at all, and that's why for me, and for all the producers of raw tobacco, this law is offensive. It is offensive, since no member pays any attention to the primary producers. There is no mention of premiums, nor of regressions, nor of helping primary producers to motivate them to produce. It is also offensive for this assembly not to be attended here by a minister who is the legislator of this law, who should follow all our statements and try to put some of this into this proposal to become more quality. As regards Article 22, this article lays down the conditions to be met by an undertaking or company which wants to deal with the production of tobacco products in order to be able to participate in the tender. It is simply pointless, and this Mr Tomislav Nikolic explained earlier, I will now repeat it, that a tender is being called for to produce tobacco products. These members are made clear and established technical, personnel and other conditions which must be met by an undertaking or undertaking which wants to deal with the production of tobacco products and do not see the purpose of the tender. What's the tender for? There's a selection in the tender. How do we now make a selection among those who meet all these conditions? Whether it encroachs on their constitutional rights. If the Court of Justice registers, on the basis of certain conditions, a company or undertaking for a particular production, who can take that right away from him and prevent him from carrying out that production. And this Article 22, as well as previous members relating to a public tender, is illogical, pointless. My amendment suggests that this member should be deleted. It is logical that there are technical conditions and that there are humane conditions. It's supposed to be in the law, but it doesn't make any sense that there's a tender for selection. Does this mean that the Serbian government introduces quotas in the production of tobacco products, so on the basis of these quotas it will make a selection among producers, or that means that the Serbian government limits the number of tobacco producers. There is no further reference to quotas in the text of the law, nor to the number of producers. Therefore, this tender, which is here, is only a source of corruption, a mechanism that will select some who are similar in Serbia, or which offers more to the government, or the agency that selects the producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25804	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25805	In response to MP Zlatan Jovanovic's amendment, the government wrote that the tender aims to determine whether the participants in the tender meet the tender's requirements. That's about the government's answer. I particularly stress that the Government says that, in fact, the most important point 7 of Article 22, which will decide whether the participant in the tender has met the conditions, which is that the undertaking or entrepreneur is obliged to offer a realistic assessment of the achievement of the annual production of cigarettes and other tobacco products, according to the appropriate quality and quantity according to market opportunities. There's nothing more vague than this. Anyone can sign up for a tender and say "real" is my assessment, I'm going to produce so many and so many billion cigarettes. It is now decisive that he be a participant in a tender whose participation will be accepted, for that point 7 is decisive. With all that, in the situation where we are, we know very well who these producers and entrepreneurs are who, at this time, or within six months, how much the law leaves from the day of entry into force, would meet the conditions to deal with this business. But the law therefore provides for the possibility that someone should have the right to participate in the tender if they deliver a project that will satisfy all the conditions set out in the first six points of Article 22, or even a bank guarantee or other means of security. Now I ask you, why should we wander in the fog and accept someone's good promises? This is because your favorites will buy social tobacco factories, and they should immediately participate in the tender because the agency must be built within 15 days of the day of the law's entry; and now they will only offer to God some project until the moment until the organized sale into devastation reaches our tobacco factories. There, that's the purpose of the tender and the agency and everything that's done in the country. You know very well how many manufacturers this class meet the conditions. If this is already going to remain a formulation, the tender should deal exclusively with those who can produce, not those who can produce, so it says, a project. Whose project is it? The tobacco factories in Nis, or the tobacco factories in Vranj, those parts in Nis that weren't destroyed by the bombing? (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. I'm finishing my discussion now. Article 22 should be deleted. It would be wise to delete all the provisions on the agency, the tender, that this state normally works, that whoever meets the legal requirements of the government, the government should prescribe the conditions, he should meet the conditions, address the Court of Commerce, register for certain action, and then, gentlemen of the government, on the ground, control what is done in the state. That's not what the tobacco agency is gonna do to you. He won't take over your job. This is just taking off responsibility: it's not the Ministry's fault, it's the agency's fault, we'll replace the director and the board of directors. Oh, that's not possible. We really want whoever's to blame. Here, since Sinisha warns the president that I've been talking too long... I don't just know which minister came. It doesn't matter. We want the National Assembly to discuss only with those who can file accounts here, which she can control here, which is removing responsibility from the government to the agencies, so now the Assembly can no longer control what the government is doing, it's bypassing parliament in a special way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25806	National MPs Radojko Petrovic and Rajko Baralic submitted the 22nd amendment together. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric, the applicant for the amendment to Article 22. Proposal for a tobacco law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25807	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the SPS, along with MP Rajko Baralic, I have tabled an amendment to Article 22. A bill of this law. This article prescribes conditions that companies and entrepreneurs must meet in order to be able to deal with the production of tobacco products. These conditions are: that there is a certain space, that there is a certain equipment, that has a trained workforce, that has a laboratory, and especially two conditions, which is why we have submitted the amendment, which is -- it is prescribed that minimum capacity must exist for the production of 2.5 billion cigarettes per year and that they must buy 2,000 tonnes of tobacco domestic production. With this amendment, we suggest that these last two conditions, these two censors change. Because it's really too big a censorship to have a tobacco product company producing 2.5 billion cigarettes. It is 342.466 packs a day, if we count that the factory works both on Saturdays and Sundays, all 365 days a year, that is the capacity of 500,000 packs a day, if we don't count Saturdays and Sundays, national holidays and collective vacations. If we want to improve the production and processing of tobacco in the wider Serbia area and ensure a healthy economic match, then this censorship should be abolished. Why should we prescribe that censorship, because if someone has money and wants to invest money and if it's certain they'll make a profit, why stop it. It can produce less than 2.5 billion cigarettes over the year. Imagine if we compare analogy, although there are specificities here, and if we say there can't be a confectionary company if it doesn't sew a hundred thousand pairs of suits or a meditative company, which has no capacity to process 1,000 or 5,000 tons of metal products. In fact, this points to the suspicion that the government wants to ensure that some foreign companies come, but that they are guaranteed that there will be no expansion of competition except for the Vranje factory and the Nis factory; it is harmful for the country and it really needs to be wiped out and allowed one free competition, one free match. It's a similar situation with censorship for buying out a homemade tobacco. It's projected 2,000 tons. I don't doubt good intentions to protect our producers in the country, but what it means to prescribe 2,000 tonnes, if we know that Vranje in the past year has processed 1,900 tonnes. That means that the Vranj factory couldn't work without talking about another factory with less capacity, so it could start working. The truth is that the Committee on Agriculture (and we see that the Government has accepted it), is trying to make an improvement that 50% of processed tobacco must be bought from domestic producers. That goes for Nis, but what about the Crow and what about the new one? I don't think that census is really working out again. It's a good thing it's said that 50% of the domestic tobacco has to be processed in that factory. That's why our amendment is one compromise, where this censorship is required to decrease by 50%, which means at least that there's some medium factory that produces 1,250,000 cigarettes a year, instead of 2.5 billion, as proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25808	The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25809	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, counterpart Radojko Petric explained here our basic idea of submitting this amendment and it is contained in the basic matter, which is to try to prevent the monopoly position of a tobacco factory by shutting down the other existing tobacco factory. Unfortunately, we have two in Serbia today, and earlier we had more tobacco factories. Now there's the low factory and the tobacco factory Vranje. It is not disputed that the Committee on Agriculture has been able to improve this member of the law by ensuring that at least 50% of the factory production will be bought from the domestic producer. That would be good, if it weren't for the fact that the Vranj tobacco factory has a production of less than 2,000 tonnes of tobacco. In principle, I tried and through some amendments to explain this situation in such a way that no factory can only make cigarettes from a local tobacco. It must be mixed to make a high-quality cigarette with imported tobacco varieties. Since these import varieties of tobacco, if made with 50%, should be for a factory that has a capacity below 2,000 tonnes, then this amendment, which has made the Ministry of Agriculture, is to be half, and at least 2,000 tonnes, exactly the same, with it obliged the tobacco factory in Nis to buy more than a domestic producer. The tobacco factory in Vranje will lead to a completely unenviable position. I have no intention of even defending the Vranj tobacco factory, I just want to offer one better and better solution, which will enable the government to prevent what it says in an explanation for the amendment, that this will prevent the monopoly. It won't stop the monopoly. It is about to create a monopoly position of the tobacco industry Nis or some new, project-based, project-based, project-based, project-based, idea-based, concession-based, license-based, or whatever else it may be able to do with the production of tobacco in this country, and again to bring into an unspeakable position of the tobacco factory in Vranje. I know, you'll say, "Let the Vranje tobacco factory sell itself to a foreign country that will increase capacity." And then, when they're exactly the same conditions for all the factories, they can work under the same conditions. There is no one against increasing the capacity of the Vranje tobacco factory, but that someone invests quality money for it, not in this way to bring it into a very dependent position and, as such, it is sold.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25810	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic signed up for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot conclude what was the wish of the legislator when he rejected this amendment because the argument was insurmountable. If you know what a monopoly is, then everyone will tell you -- where there are fewer producers or participants in some business, where there are fewer licenses, there are more conditions to create a monopoly, and the government tells us in response to the amendment of the MPs -- we only want to give licenses to those who can produce more than 10% of the annual consumption of cigarettes in Serbia to prevent the monopoly. It won't be clear to anyone now. Two show up who can spend 50% of their cigarettes in Serbia to produce and even get permission based on their participation in the tender, and that's where the government says - you're in the tender, but under Article 23. The government is deciding on granting a permit. So, meeting the conditions in the tender isn't enough for someone to get permission, but then the government will decide further on the agency's proposal, and then the government will then serve the agency, supply it with information that will be controlled by those who work, and only once will it appear as someone who decides on the agency's proposal. Now the government is deciding on the agency's proposal, now that the government's proposed agency, you don't even know who's in charge anymore, but in this case, it's about creating a monopoly. The bill creates a monopoly. The amendment of the MPs went to at least 10 more to 10 more, those who can say, that another 10 participants appear in the tender, which will meet the tender conditions, 20, 30, is not important, but a minimum of 10 more. The government says - no, we want to prevent the monopoly and therefore determine strict conditions by capacity, so only one who produces more than 10% consumption will be able to do so. Why can't one who produces 2% of the consumption, it'll never be clear to me. Let it grow, let it be 10% over a few years, but if it's better and cheaper, the big one will be worried. There's nothing to worry about like this. In Serbia, several people have money for this and only a few places in Serbia have capacity for this production. There will only be an agreement, whose capacity and afterwards, the citizens of Serbia, when you have welcomed DOS in power, it looks like, at which price you will smoke and what you will smoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25812	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević, representative of the applicant for the amendment to Article 22. Proposal for a tobacco law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25813	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I am taking this opportunity to congratulate the citizens of Leskovec on a new power and to promise, on behalf of the Socialist People's Party, that we will work on the welfare of all citizens with the people, not on behalf of the people. Also, I would take the opportunity to ask Minister Djelic, which I was given yesterday, when will high school students receive scholarships to begin in September? (President: National MP, please return to the topic, and that is the debate on the amendment to Article 22. Proposal for a tobacco law. ) National Socialists suggested buying 3,000 tons instead of 2,000 tons of tobacco. The main intensity was that Serbia's producers did not remain unrepurchased tobacco and that further tobacco production was accelerated. However, the Serbian government says it would be a monopoly. I think it is far better to produce tobacco in Serbia than to import it; and in order not to repeat the current experience we have with agricultural products, where our products remain unrepurchased, processors should be obliged to purchase complete quantities of tobacco. It's the only way to protect our crops, and thus accelerate further tobacco production as an industrial branch.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25814	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Zoran Angelkovic, Milan Jankovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected this amendment as incomplete, so it cannot be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly and, according to Article 142 paragraph 5. The word is from MP Joca Arsic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25815	As it is a duty under the Rules of Procedure to say which member of the Rules of Procedure is being advertised, I am now advertising the violation of Article 142, the last and last position. The last and last position of this Rules of Procedure says: "The Legislative Committee will reject the untimely, incomplete and offensive amendments to the offensive content, which will be reported to the National Assembly. Discarded amendments cannot be discussed at the National Assembly session." That's not controversial. The interpretation of this pre-lated attitude was given very broadly here. Let me just remind you that we have submitted an amendment to Article 23 that in Article 23, the Government is obliged not to decide on giving, but to give the company, or the entrepreneur's license, based on the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 22 of this Act, and on the proposal of the Agency. Instead of the general attitude to decide, we gave an imperative position and suggested that the government be obliged if the conditions were met. (President: National MP, if we understand each other correctly, there is no debate on this amendment to Article 23) No discussion, I quote what I want to explain. So, the Legislative Committee is this broad interpretation of our amendment... I don't know what's offensive about that, I'm sorry, I had to quote this in order to see what's offensive in our amendment. Is it offensive that we have proposed that the government be bound, that if the conditions are met, it brings a solution or gives permission. If that's offensive, then I apologize, I don't know what we should be looking for and what to do in this congregation. We have the right to submit amendments. Here's an amendment widely interpreted, and it's not said whether it's offensive or untimely. So it's not offensive, it's not untimely, it's not incomplete. It's complete, because we're changing one word in another word. Instead of general, make it binding. The second thing is whether you'll accept that amendment. That's not at all what I'm saying. It is the right of the congregation's majority, government, committee, to accept or not accept the amendment. But that gives this qualification several times already, because we have several more amendments that have been rejected for similar reasons! Is that what you want to shorten the debate? Is this debate not to last? Does this mean that in this way the Legislative Committee can in future cut off half the amendments and say, "We're discussing three to satisfy the form, we have two more to discuss, please, we've satisfied the form, we've played a little democracy in the Assembly, let's adopt the law." I don't think that's correct and it's wrong to work in this congregation that way. I think the president himself, not reading what is the essence of our amendment, not reading what is being challenged in the request of the Legislative Committee, violates the Rules of Procedure because the provisions set out in Article 142 are not applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25816	I can only repeat the explanation. So I am not assessing whether the amendments are timely and complete, but because of the Legislative Committee, I am applying the Rules of Procedure. I have a report from the Legislative Committee where your amendment is assessed as incomplete. Therefore, in accordance with Article 142, it cannot be discussed. (Joca Arsic: Please give me an explanation. ) The Administrative Board will give you an explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on Agriculture submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. The Prime Minister accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP George Mamula, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 25. Proposal for a tobacco law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25817	Article 25 regulates the conditions under which the authorisation to work for a tobacco undertaking ceases to be important. We thought there couldn't be a word about the withdrawal of the permit, but that the permit would cease by law. On the other hand, the government, in its explanation of the decision to reject our amendment, says it has been led to the government's decision to grant a permit based on the fulfillment of the conditions. The government doesn't decide to give permission. The agency decides on the authorisation, Mr Djelic, and at the proposal of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health. If the Agency decides on the basis of a proposal from the Minister of Health and the Minister of Agriculture, then it is logical that the Agency also decides on termination. It is clear why you suggested that the government be in the final instance. So, when the conditions are met for the termination of the permit, the government still sees someone through their fingers. Writing laws and a bill of law is part of a business that needs to be mastered. Therefore, it is not clear to me at all why the government in the last instance decides to withdraw the permit when the agency makes a proposal? It should probably be in those cases when conditions are met to stop the importance of the law enforcement license, that the government still rewards someone to keep working. That's unacceptable. I think that our amendment should be accepted, and that this argument of the government is a sign of ignorance and of matter and of the writing of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25818	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25819	Indeed, a man would only have to follow your injuries to the Rules of Procedure in order to be able to participate in the work of the National Assembly session, because you, one after the other, like when someone slaps the wrong-doers. You have just informed us that the Committee on Agriculture has submitted an amendment to Article 25, that at the meeting of the Committee, a representative of the Government has accepted the amendment and that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. You did not tell us by which member of the Rules of Procedure the Committee on Agriculture has the right to submit an amendment to the draft law before the debate and before the vote on details. That's one thing. The other thing is, you've interpreted that you don't decide anything here, that you just have to hold a session, and then act like it, and not when you say - I've decided, I said, then you can, and when you see for yourself that there are procedural mistakes...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25820	Did you report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25821	I've volunteered as a National MP, to use my right as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25822	There are rules of procedure, did you report for breach of the Rules of Procedure or for discussion of the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25823	Now I'm going to tell you, I want to discuss it with you. The amendment to Article 23 has been rejected as incomplete, and Article 23 says the government decides whether anyone will be granted a permit. The MPs asked the government to issue a permit. You said you couldn't get involved. Ms. Micic, under the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, you are given the right, as well, to decide within a certain period on elections for the President of the Republic, and you have interpreted this right so that you will not call the elections, instead of calling the elections under that law. Because a country that has a president under the Constitution can either have a president or have a presidential election, and it cannot have a state in which the acting president says, "I now think we shouldn't have a president." That is why we have warned you that this provision cannot be found in Article 23 - the government decides to issue a permit. So, who's giving the license, if the government decides to issue? Then another body will exist, which permission will be issued. The government approves the issue, the National Assembly president calls elections for the president of the Republic, and not, Mrs. Micic, you cannot decide whether the amendment is incomplete, you decide whether Serbia should have a president or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25824	This was a combination, I guess, of the Rules of Procedure's injuries and the amendment debate. I don't know what, you haven't made up your mind. One nice combination. You're just making combinations. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević together submitted the 25th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He has the word of MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25825	Dear fellow Members, we have submitted an amendment to Article 25 and have proposed that all tobacco producers and traffickers, who are taxing in production and tobacco transport, be withdrawn the work permit that was previously given. If we interpret this part as a desire to break up crime, to stop the abuse of companies that work, to enrich the budget, and to get as much funding as possible into the social fund, and everything that needs to be monitored by Serbia's budget, I see no reason not to accept this part. It is said in the reasoning of the Serbian government -- there is no telling what is meant. Well, here's specifically, inspection service control has been established in X-ray companies that no sufficient amount of tax has been paid. So whoever produced it didn't carry out the obligations he had to perform regularly. We don't think that this company has the right, or that it needs to be taken away from her license. Furthermore, everyone who has been punished during the previous period for the abuse of tobacco trafficking and has been criminally responsible, we do not think that they can continue to deal with tobacco trafficking. We also believe that this amendment is an opportunity to be accepted by the Serbian government, in the interest of avoiding crime and all that can follow this part of the job. I call on Minister Djelic to accept this amendment, in the interest of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25826	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25827	This amendment was to be rejected by the Legislative Committee because it had the conditions for the rejection of amendments. The amendment is illiterate. The company can't be punished for tax evasion. Find me a company that's been punished for tax evasion. This is about personal responsibility. Tax evasion is the one responsible for the timely tax payments in the government's register. Now, if the Legislative Committee for this amendment had said - it cannot enter into the procedure, because it does not correspond at all, nor is it in the legal system, I would agree with the Legislative Committee. But to reject amendments just because they are from opposition parliamentary groups, and to miss amendments from parliamentary groups that co-operate with the ruling majority in this assembly, this is an obvious example of the torture of the majority over the minority, a tightly tempered majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25828	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Zoran Angelkovic, Milan Jankovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for this amendment? He has the word National MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25 of the proposed law, which speaks of when an enterprise is withdrawn and under what conditions, and in the first position it is said to the company, that is, the entrepreneur who ceases to meet the conditions laid down in Article 22(1) to (6) of this Act, is withdrawn from the permit for the production of tobacco products. With this first position, we fully agree, but the second and third points say: "The permit is also taken away by the company, i.e. the entrepreneur who has been punished for the offence in the production of tobacco products, in accordance with this law. "We have suggested that the second attitude be changed and that instead of being "punished for a crime", it says: "punished by a judicial verdict for a violation". Which is why we asked for it - for the simple reason that those who charge these penalties can simply blackmail private entrepreneurs, i.e. tobacco processors, in different ways, so that our proposal greatly reduces this possibility, because it takes someone to be punished by a judicial verdict, means to be before the court, to make a judicial decision, and only then to withdraw permission from an entrepreneur, or a tobacco processor. I suggest that the National Assembly accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25830	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? He has the word Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25831	Ladies and gentlemen, the wish was clear - given that these are important decisions, big investments, they want to attract serious industrial "players" to this market, to ensure strong legal certainty, and therefore we could not accept one such amendment, in fact because of the way it was formulated. It's about the verdict, and the word "decision" has to be used. But we have a close amendment to the parent committee that essentially did what you were talking about, so it means that we're actually agreeing with you. In this way, and explicitly, clearly, the law will strengthen legal certainty for investors. So we took that essentially as an idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25832	A representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Joca Arsic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25833	I look forward to what the minister was talking about, to accept our amendment in part, but for the sake of the public, for the record, we thought, since the solutions are being talked about, that the solutions must be justified and legally valid so that they can be handled. The damage that can occur if a slave is taken away or banned from action, and it can be prohibited if he has committed an offence or a criminal offence under this bill, therefore there can be a mass of abuse. Someone can pay someone to commit a certain offense, so they can have their work permit taken away tomorrow. This is about big things and big investments. It's about 30 million dollars or up to five million dinars. Do you know what it means for someone in that legal certainty to have someone in an unfair decision or not by a decision that isn't final, be punished, be denied his license, so he proves it after six months or a year and so on? I don't think that's a good solution. Whether - a decision, or - a solution, a solution to punishment, in any case, that solution must be legally valid i.e. Rightfully so that someone can act and take away their licenses. Everything else is not in this system at all and does not guarantee any security. Therefore, this urgency, which the minister spoke of, although we did not see, was not delivered to us, as did Article 142, the last and last position, was taken from the right to talk, but to remind only - the President of the Assembly was not at the debate yesterday, when we discussed the two amendments, about the amendment to Article 3 and Article 5, and the Legislative Committee was late; from one day he managed to deliver an opinion; so at least let the time not schedule the session and consider the materials, so that we do not come to this situation that we have one and the other today. We were able to discuss it yesterday, and today we can't do it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25834	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Zoran Angelkovic, Milan Jankovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP George Mamula, the representative of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25835	In short, we propose this amendment to fill Serbia's budget and the government refuses. So, we propose that the manufacturer of tobacco products be obliged to pay up to 3% of the sales price to the smoking fund, and one percent of the sales price to the smoking area adaptation fund in the environment. The importer of tobacco products is obliged to pay an amount of 3% of the value used as the basis for customs duty in a smoking treatment fund and one percent in a smoking area adaptation fund in the environment. The founder of these funds is the Ministry of Health Protection, which manages these funds. The government rejects and says in its response - the amendment is not accepted because the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, etc., under section 24 - Ministry of Health, position 666, economic classification of 481 grants to NGOs, as well as funds for the Society for the Combating Cancer, as if cancer is the only disease resulting from smoking. We went to the Oncology Institute before we prepared these amendments, then the orthopedic clinic and so on, and there's a growing number of people who are amputating their legs for smoking, so on. "Smoking Leg." Operation is simple, deep anesthesia, scalpel cuts meat, bone sawing, and assistant takes the leg out. So we asked people at the Banjic orthopedic clinic around the hospital, and we asked people at the Oncology Institute -- what are the radiation devices, and we saw some foreign legislation. So that's what we've been handling. We suggest that the budget be charged in this way, to contribute to the treatment. About 300 children a year suffer from cancer. So she'd be treated in that institute that would be improved by these means. The government refuses. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25836	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25837	Thank you, Madam Chairman, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, and as the debate itself has shown. The debate on this law, I guess it's clearer for everyone, including us in the government, that as a state, we don't invest enough money for what's the real issue with tobacco, which is to stop tobacco consumption. Like you said yourself, statistics are scary. We are one of the few countries in Europe where the percentage of those who smoke in the younger generation is not smaller, on the contrary, than those who are older, which means that we are preparing generations of people who are going to suffer from cancer. That means personal tragedies, broken families, but also for the state a huge cost. As you know, since you were at the Institute of Oncology, for the first time in some 20 years, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has provided funds for the purchase of necessary radiation devices, in all five places where this radiation is done, so we'll be better off, so to speak, unfortunately, the consequences, but the consequences that life can mean for some people. If we go back to your amendment, it's clear that this law, and the advertising law that we're about to have, will reactivate the issue of funding to curb tobacco consumption. Our proposal is next -- it's not about intent, it's just about implementation, it's about technique. We come from a system of public finances with about 265 fiscal forms, to point out -- what was essentially a excise charge, this would be some form of excise tax increase, if we adopt one such amendment, which means more complicated implementation of the Excise Act; that means additional costs for all those companies that would have to pay that tax; that means changing information programs, that means administrative costs in the tax administration itself to collect that burden, and also -- separate control of that fiscal newly established form. In one word, for public finances, the introduction of many smaller fiscal forms is incomparably more expensive to implement, and thus also in terms of the efficiency of the entire system, rather than the implementation of several generous, large fiscal forms. The issue that is essential in this amendment is the issue of funding and should be found on the dissipative side. Our proposal is - given that if we come to some additional funding by the National Assembly of Votes, and as you can see there are some licenses and approvals, but also independently of that, it is necessary to step up the financing of the fight against tobacco consumption - that, when there is a debate on budget rebalancing for 2003, which the Government will propose to this home in March of the month, they find themselves on the far side, where they are to be found. So, let's not introduce new funds, because they're expensive for administration, and not only that, they produce the very administration and bureaucracy and make complications. Based on the results of the budget inspection, unfortunately in such forms, there are often greater abuses on dedicated incomes, so the expenditures themselves of this fund would increase, unfortunately that is our experience, and that would take one part of that revenue. So, basically, we agree that there is a need to step up the fight against tobacco consumption, that there is a need to increase funds in that. We suggest that it be found on the bulky side of the budget when it comes in that time, and that's in a few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25838	Thank you. The president of the DSS parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov, also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25839	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't think you understand, because here we don't think that an excise or anything should be raised, but that the government should give up one piece of its cake for this very purpose. That's our intention. This is not defined to raise excise duties, nor to affect excise duties. Our proposal goes in the direction of the government giving up its work, since nowhere is it clearly defined that special rooms and everything else should be determined. We believe that by fixing special rooms for smokers, for these funds and everything else, it would significantly reduce the disease as a result of smoking, because this is how smokers get hurt. You've been to the West a lot, and you've seen that there's almost no public place where there's no room for non-smokings, from airports to all other places. In this way, we could certainly influence, over a longer period of time, the reduction of the disease as a consequence of smoking, and especially passive smoking; this also affects the reduction of costs from the health fund. So it's just here to define which mechanism. We believe that perhaps from this part of the government, you should not go further increasing excise duties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25840	The word has been made by the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think whoever writes the amendment, when he thinks something, should write it, not leave it for interpretations that can't be done by reading the amendments at all. You have attached an amendment which obliges manufacturers and importers to give up their share, (your share, you said so), 3% of the sale price to the fund for treatment and the consequences again, and why not invest in prevention. So this would either cost us, because if the manufacturer pays the tax that is intended for a particular type of product, where do we get the right to impose extra tax on him? An extra tax on taxes, he can't. The tax rate he has for the production he deals with, for the traffic he deals with, for the imports he deals with. When he settles those charges he's calm, you won't be waiting for him on the pot if he crossed the bridge. And if you wrote that the budget will be set aside for this, it goes into the budget law, so the amendments to the draft budget law, so if you adopt it as the majority of parliament who voted for the budget, then it will pass, and if you don't adopt it, it won't pass. In this way, it turns out that you only burden the end consumer, because the manufacturer would go for it, and the question is, would it be in line with the tax system that we're all behind, as far as we're concerned. In providing smoking space, as far as we're concerned, you don't have to invest a dime, we're sending Vojislav Seselj to the Republic Square on Sunday, 23:00 p.m. Come, you who rejoice, we too will come to whom it is not for joy, and you will not have a chance to rejoice for long, for May 29th is coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25842	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25843	My colleagues and colleagues, this amendment was intended to provide funds for the exact treatment of the consequences, as said in the amendment itself. It's a little awkward to introduce a new imposition, but it must be necessary to provide funds primarily to prevent it, means to prevent it. Here came the collapsing of what the Minister spoke of us here and what was written in the explanation of the government. Here the government says that in the budget, position 666, the economic classification of 481 - donations to NGOs is also foreseen for the Cancer Society, which is one of the basic anti-smoking activities. I think this is an explanation for the refusal of this amendment and this amendment to the full collapsing of what the minister was talking about. There's not just one society that can bring out this thing on its shoulders that the minister was talking about here with a full mouth, that unfortunately we're poisoning the people to have 50, 15 billion in revenue from the budget and say that we're going to help it in another way. Our pledges were to make significant funds through budget rebalances that would separate exactly for prevention. I think this amendment by my DSS colleagues makes sense. It means to provide means to prevent, to fight smoking. It's better to do prevention than treat the consequences of this. When it comes to consequences, it's expensive, and it's in vain, if it's lung cancer. I'm absolutely sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25844	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Petar Petrovic, representative of the amendment applicants, to Article 28. Proposal for a tobacco law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25845	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly Club of the Soviet Union has tabled an amendment to Article 28. The draft tobacco law, which requires that the envisaged obligation in Article 28 be reduced to 5 tonnes by those who want to deal with large tobacco trade, which is an obligation to have a storage space for the storage of 30 tonnes of cigarettes. We believe that this figure of five tonnes and the obligation to own a storeroom for the accommodation of five tonnes of cigarettes and other tobacco products is appropriate, because 80% of traders in Serbia who deal with other goods and trade in large tobacco and tobacco products are not exclusively engaged in the trade in large tobacco products, but rather have a secondary activity in their trade on a large scale, because they are engaged in other trades, i.e. trade in many other products that supply retail trade. Also, we asked for the same article, so Article 28, to be deleted from points 3 to 8, for the following reasons. In this regard, those views provide that those legal entities and entrepreneurs who, in the last three years of the day of their submission, are not entitled to engage in this business in a criminal offence or offence. We of the Soviet Union think this would be a two-time sentence for the same offense. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is no retroactive fact of the law. On the other hand, if someone is already being punished by a fine or a felony, a legal person, whether an entrepreneur, a responsible person in that enterprise, or an entrepreneur, can not now be punished for not being allowed to continue to do a job he has been doing for years. We would understand that this law, as envisaged, is applied from the day of its adoption, so, in the future, whoever commits such an offence, i.e. an offence to be punished among other things and the withdrawal of a license, or the right to trade in large goods. The same provision is foreseen for retailers. We repeat, therefore, there is no legal certainty in the legal life of the Republic of Serbia, because if someone knew that they would be deprived of his license to work in this kind of activity, then perhaps he would have different control over his workers, his associates, etc. Therefore, it is illogical for this law to be applied backwards and thus to be accelerated and put into a more favourable position by those traders in large tobacco and tobacco products engaged in another type of activity, for which they have also been punished for committed commercial offences or offences, but now they can deal with the trade of tobacco on a large scale, because they have not been punished for it. For this reason, I suggest you accept this amendment to the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25846	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević together submitted the 28th amendment. However, for that parliamentary group, pursuant to Article 142(4). Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected this amendment as incomplete, so it cannot be discussed at a session of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure. So there's no discussion about this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment as an untimely one, so it cannot be discussed at a session of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure. So there's no discussion about this amendment. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazic, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Zoran Angelkovic, Milan Jankovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected this amendment as incomplete, so it cannot be discussed at a session of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure. So there's no discussion about this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected this amendment as incomplete, so it cannot be discussed at a session of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is the proposaling officer answering for a word? There is a word from the representatives of the amendments, MP Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25847	Dear Presidency, brothers and sisters, respected representatives of national minorities and ethnic communities, on behalf of the Soviet Union, I represent the amendment to Article 29. Proposal for a tobacco law. To be more specific, this is the second chapter of the proposed law that regulates high-end tobacco trade, and that's a decision to grant a license. In the position of the 2nd member, which relates to the granting of a licence to businesses and entrepreneurs, the bill envisioned that the payment of five million dinars to be paid to obtain the first member's licence, which is due to the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The Soviet Parliament Group proposes to delete this amount of five million dinars and replace the amount of millions of dinars. In this respect, the next item 3 refers to the payment method, i.e. the bill provides for this amount of one million dinars to be paid in five annual wars. We of the Soviet Union suggest that this amount of one million dinars, in five years of war, be replaced by 200,000 dinars. It also states in paragraph 6 - for obtaining a licence from Article 5(s)(remembering, paragraph 5 refers to importers, those who import tobacco products) shall be paid a fee of five million dinars. The Soviet Parliament Group suggests that in this position, this amount of 5 million dinars be replaced by two million dinars. Also, this stance is related to the following position of the same member, which reads in the bill: "The importer of the 5th article's position can pay the fee of the 2nd member's position in the five-year war of one million dinars". We suggest changing this position, given this proposed reduction in the previous position, that this amount, of a million dinars, be replaced by 400,000 dinars. In practice, we do not see in this proposal the purpose of introducing this number of taxis and fees for tobacco dealers, if it is known that all traders pay excises, sales taxes, profit taxes and all other obligations to the state. In this way, legal entities and entrepreneurs engaged, inter alia, and trade in large tobacco products, are placed in an unequal position compared to other entities dealing with trade in other product types. We believe that this is also how the circle of those who might be able to deal with this kind of trade is narrowed down, that this job can only be obtained by certain entities, or privileged entities.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25848	Is there anyone else applying to this amendment for a word from the authorised participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Zoran Angelkovic, Milan Jankovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. There's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25849	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the parliamentary group, as read by Madam President, the SPS, or part of those MPs from that parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 29, which reads: the words "the government decides to grant a licence", are replaced by the words "the government is obliged to issue a licence". This is exactly the same amendment as the previous amendment on which the Legislative Committee has given an interpretation that it does not agree with the Rules of Procedure, Rule 142, the pre-lated and final position, exactly the same. My warning is to read the amendment and read what the Legislative Committee gives makes complete sense. Because it's a completely identical amendment, only to another member. It's exactly the same in its composition, in its direction. The government wants to be obliged to give to all those who have met the conditions. It used to be a license, now it's a license. It's exactly the same, and two different decisions. We just couldn't explain our amendments, because that's what the Legislative Committee said, now we can explain the exact same amendment, because that's what the Legislative Committee forgot to see, or he was wrong for the first time. I believe he was wrong for the first time and here's a confirmation of how the Rules of Procedure is conducted in this assembly and how it is done. I think this amendment makes sense. The government rejected it on the grounds that the reason is the same as it was stated for not accepting the amendments to Article 23, an amendment that we had no right to discuss. We're here in an absurd situation. I say, the amendment is completely meaningful and I ask that we take seriously into consideration and that when the parliamentary majority, when there is a vote on this amendment, has this explanation in mind. We don't want to spoil anything, we want the law to be effectively implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25850	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25851	I hope the parliamentary majority won't forget when it's voting day. We really support this amendment and consider it reasonable. If the Agency finds that the company or entrepreneur has met all the conditions prescribed by law, then I do not see the need for the Government to retain the discretionary right not to grant a work permit, or it is simply understood if all this is completed and if all is regular that there is no need to disable someone afterwards. In principle, the government doesn't care how many manufacturers there are. In healthy competition and in a healthy market, only those who can survive, who are stronger, and the profit from excise duties is assumed, regardless of how many companies will succeed, or entrepreneurs. So I remind you once again, when there is an amendment to Article 29 and when we declare ourselves on the day of the vote, that we support this amendment, because it is simply good and what it proposes is good, so there is no reason to reject it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25852	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 31st Amendment. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25853	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this article 31 directly shows that the government wants to disable those traders, who want to deal largely with the trade in cigarettes. The Serbian Unity Party proposes that the proposed amount be abolished as a deposit of 30 million, which should be used by any wholesaler who wants to sell cigarettes to the National Bank of Yugoslavia or to guarantee the bank. The government's explanation says an amendment to the Serbian Unity Party is rejected, for 30 million needs the trader to pay largely, and unless he pays taxes that the government can take him off the jury account, that is, to remove that guarantee. The Serbian government and the resornitary forget that excise and sales taxes are paid in purchases. That high-end taxpayer who sells cigarettes only pays the price difference between the purchase price and the sale price, so, Minister, that argument of yours, which you gave, doesn't stand. You mentioned one more thing - because of the gray economy. The grey economy is also being destroyed at the manufacturer's gate because all obligations, excise duties and taxes are being paid there. Despite the introduction that five million dinars go irrevocably into the Serbian government's budget and plus 30 million, the question arises where your entrepreneurs will provide these funds. They can't get a loan, because the credit is meant for production, or for real estate. This isn't real estate, this is business, and how that dealer is going to get 30 million dinars guaranteeing some bank. You have the means to punish those traders who do not respect the proposed law, and those penalties even go up to 470,000 dinars; 400,000 pays the company, the responsible person in the company and the trader, so that the Serbian government directly wants to disable all those who want to sell cigarettes in its warehouse. Another painful question, that only 2-3 traders may be in Serbia. That means their location will be in Belgrade. How the one from Jagodina, from Nis, from Kruševec, if he needs 10 packs of cigarettes, will have a small shop and no more money to get; he has to turn on that special vehicle, to come to Belgrade so he can fill his warehouse. The Serbian Unity Party suggests that you accept this amendment because, I'm not saying you're not professional, maybe someone else wrote it to you, your argument is unclear and has not been applied so far. Because I repeat once again, excise and tax are paid when taking goods and it's in the account, pre-calculation value of goods, tax billing. So there's no statement, Mr. Minister. Please explain why you gave this explanation, not to accept the amendment to the Serbian Unity Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25854	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment were together submitted by the MPs Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Zoran Angelkovic, Milan Jankovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25855	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia and I have submitted an amendment to Article 31st, and we suggest that instead of saying "be punished for the offence", the word "will be fined with justice for the offence". The amendment refers to a person who is subject to penalties for failing to meet certain conditions, and concerns the transfer of deposits, which has been invested, to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that in the rule of law, measuring judicial decisions, not decisions by the agency, and I think it is necessary, in order to preserve the rule of law, to accept this amendment. I would add one more thing in the context of this, a similar amendment was proposed by the Committee on Agriculture on Article 25(2). With this proposal by the Committee on Agriculture, which also refers to the legality of the infringement decision, the minister also agreed as an authorised representative of the motionor. I do not understand why, when the same substance is treated, when criminal provisions are treated, the proposing representative does not agree with this amendment and agrees with the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture. If we want equal treatment and if we want respect for the law and legality, then we should accept this amendment to the Socialist Party of Serbia. Why does the Government, in its explanation, say that the amendment is not accepted, because the position of the 4th member is prescribed that, in the event that a sentence for a committed offence or a criminal offence is legally abolished, the funds of the deposit will be returned. Why do we have to complicate, not wait for the justice of the verdict, the criminal or the criminal, and then remove those funds, but double the business. I think this is how we complicate, and by accepting this amendment, we simplify and stick to the strict legality that we're propagating.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25856	The deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be accepted because by rejecting this amendment, the government points us to such a solution that it is not interested in judicial proceedings, that it is not interested in the justice of one verdict, that it is sufficiently first-degreed solution or judgment given by the authorities. It's not in legal traffic, regardless of what the Administrative Board is writing to us now and to the board of directors all sorts of misunderstandings in its interpretations, so the books will be written about what kind of equilibristics you've done with legal norms, but here it's all clear. There may be terrible consequences for the entrepreneur or the company. He can go into bankruptcy, liquidate, mortgage the bank and sell out his assets. It's about 30 million deposits, five million dollars to get a license. They're not small funds. It's nice to get into the budget when you're stuck with pensions, child benefits, salaries, but you're gonna leave someone without a company because you didn't wait for a judicial verdict. Then you will instruct him to seek his means. Here, I can list a few people in this room who have never been paid back by the Republic Public Revenue Administration. I don't want to tell you how long after that, there's been a dispute for lost profit, for damages, etc. It's all clear here. You can't punish someone who isn't convicted. He can't, because maybe he didn't commit at all, maybe the first-degree body didn't take into account all the facts, maybe not all the evidence was available to him, maybe as the Republic Public Revenue Administration, he said that the taxpayer submitted evidence, but that the evidence was not appreciated in the process. And that's what first-degree organs do. That's why there's two-degree protection for anyone who's given a measure. We will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25858	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is from MP Joca Arsic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25859	I was already talking about the need for justice and the legal validity of decisions on the basis of which certain actions are taken and I would not repeat it. It's already quite said here in the argument that the only thing that has finally been settled in justice is to determine sanctions. However, there were no words here about how damage will be compensated if it is proved that someone is not guilty, rather, under this bill, he has been deprived of funds or banned from work, which causes the withdrawal of deposits, whether it is five million or 30 million dinars, and I am not saying that I am not repeating the difference stated by counterpart Nikolic, that this will have other consequences. So, some companies that do this job won't be able to handle it. I was talking about the possibility of planting, in this case, to determine that someone committed a crime, and later that it was maliciously done. These are all the possibilities that call into question all of this, that, before the judicial thing is over, certain measures will be taken that will result in those involved in this economic activity. For these reasons, we have proposed this amendment. I don't see any reason not to adopt it. As counterpart Lazic said, an effort has already been made in Article 25 to find a similar solution. Also, in addition to causing these direct consequences, if it has been shown rightly that the measure has been unwarranted, passed by the law, all things return. Who will compensate for the damage caused, not to talk about nominal amounts? It is easy to repay a deposit of 30 million, it is relatively easy to repay a deposit of five million, depending on the capacity of the budget, but the question is who will compensate for the damage while the process lasts - three, six months or a year. Who will compensate for this damage and who will bring back those other consequences that are in the chain? If one company that hires closes, say, 200, 300 or 1,000 people, if it's a tobacco factory, who's going to make up for all the damage that's going to go in the chain? Therefore, our insistence is for these reasons, with this argument that legally valid solutions should be addressed by these issues, and no solutions that are half-way through.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25860	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Dusan Ilic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 32. Proposal for a tobacco law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25861	Article 32 is governed by the procedure for the withdrawal of the licence. Our basic idea is to withdraw the license by force of the law, not to have someone decide, in this particular case, the Government, on the withdrawal of the license, when jurisdiction has already been handed over to the Agency. At all, one part of our amendments is going towards tightening the criteria for carrying out the production, retail and wholesale trade and imports of tobacco and tobacco products. Our basic idea is that in this area, there is a sharper control, so that we don't have cases like this that we have a situation in the municipality of Stara Paz, which is related to this unfortunate drug factory. The medicine factory formed by Zarubica and wanted to build Zarubica had the permits of virtually everyone, and even, at the end of the executive board of the Assembly of the Municipality of Stara Paz, where even Zarubica represented the Executive Board of SO Stara Paz, although he was not a member of the Executive Board and was not right to do so, but I will not enter these details. We just have to protect ourselves so things don't happen. The slave is a story to herself, and this law is a story to itself. So I urge you to accept this amendment, to avoid such settlements, from the level of local self-government to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25862	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Zoran Angelkovic, Milan Jankovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is there a word application for this amendment? The word has been given by MP Djura Lazic, representative of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25863	Mr Minister, if you had no understanding of the justification for the amendment to Article 31, I think that, with the arguments that I will make, you will have the will to accept this amendment to Article 32. Here's why. In Section 2, the word "punished" should be replaced by the words "legally punished". The final position of this member should be deleted, which shall relate to the return of the licence unless a judicial verdict is reached to prove the guilt of a specific entity. From filing a criminal complaint to the lawfulness of the decision to punish a criminal offence, there is a longer time-limit, which is why there is also damage to the entity to whom the sentence applies, but there is also a state. We know how long these proceedings take from the adoption of the first criminal order to justice. During all this time, the agency or the government is withdrawing a license from the subject for the production and sale of cigarettes. In all that time, a particular entity cannot perform its work. So he suffers consequences, damages, and there is also damage to the state, the government. Because when production is not achieved, when traffic is not achieved, it is normal for the loss to be borne by the government. That is why I think it is much more celibate to accept this amendment and that the criminal provision applies to a judicial verdict, because in this way there is no need for the government to return the license later, after that long period, and there would be no harm to the government or the subject. One more thing, Mr. Minister, I know the government has the hardest finance minister in the world, because the Ministry of Finance needs to raise funds, distribute funds to its users, and there are a lot of them. However, the ministry must also fight to fill the budget, but I am not for the budget to be filled with one-time sales of profitable factories. Lately, the tobacco industry in Nis and Vranj is often mentioned, but it is forgotten about the tobacco industry of Gjilan, even though the tobacco industry is ours. The sale of these industries would only raise funds once, and, in the long run, a much better effect would be if the sale, as predicted under the Privatisation Act, would be delayed, to increase excise duties on imported products, import cigarettes, and to create more real competition, to protect domestic production; and foreign partners, foreign licensee manufacturers, would be in a position of an interesting market in Serbia to contract with domestic factories, domestic industries in the production of quality cigarettes. In this way, a much longer-term and more effective state would raise funds, with the protection of domestic production and domestic industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25864	Is there more application for a word by authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stankovic, Joca Arsic, Zoran Angelkovic, Milan Jankovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted together to the 34th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Petar Petrovic, representative of the amendment applicants, to Article 34. Proposal for a tobacco law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25865	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Parliament Club has proposed that article be deleted. Because of the public, here's the thing. In Article 34. The draft tobacco law was laid down by the Government for the purpose of obtaining a marketing authorisation for small tobacco products. We in the SS may accept that there are strict conditions for the right to obtain a retail license if it is another product, but when it comes to tobacco and tobacco products, I think it's inadmissible at least, and it's not in line with the economic developments in this country. The government, among other things, says it would be entitled not to have unsettled public income obligations. The question is whether only anyone who wants to deal with retail tobacco and tobacco products should be punished, that is to say, to defend him. that he is not given a licence to perform this type of activity unless he has settled his obligations on the basis of public income? What about the other retailers and other merchants, who do not settle regularly or do not settle public income obligations at all? On the other hand, there is also talk of penalties imposed, in a three-year period, before the date of submission of requests for the right to conduct retail trade, i.e. for obtaining a license from the agency, and among other things is said to be the one who is fined or punished by prison, etc. If someone has already been given a measure in the process (I am talking about the procedures that have been concluded for some small tobacco and tobacco trade offence), and it is not by the competent authority which has imposed a measure, or punishment, imposed and the measure of banning the operation of this type of activity, why is this law now taking over the prerogative to retroactively act on such types of offences and why an entrepreneur would be responsible for the fact that one of his employees, among other things, has been engaged in some illicit trafficking in the past, and there have been such cases in the past, you know very well. That is why we believe that this member should be deleted, and I will give a broader explanation, and I will talk about it when I talk about Article 35, because in this way, retailers in a small way who want to sell small tobacco and tobacco products are placed in an unequal position with other retailers, also when it comes to excise products, such as. Coffee, alcohol, etc. Why would they have an obligation to meet these conditions, if they had already met them and received permission to work from market inspection, sanitary inspection, labour protection inspections, etc. That is why I suggest that you press the green button on that famous day of voting and vote for this amendment to the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25866	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25867	Article 34 should be deleted because it creates such great obligations for retailers, that it will prove I was right when I said that Stanko Subotić - Cane Frog is preparing to buy all "Duvan's" kiosks, their price will be extremely low, because they do not meet the requirements of Article 34. The bill of law and because they won't be able to deal with it anymore. In fact, here you are now saying that an enterprise, that is, an entrepreneur who wants to deal with the traffic of small tobacco products, must have an object that meets the sanitary-hygienic, health, and other conditions. If the finance minister had been in Serbia for the last 10 years, he would have seen that we could sell cigarettes on cardboard boxes, when it depends on the source of income for the family. And if the finance minister had managed to get every pack of cigarettes out of the factory to have a stamp and if all the taxes had already been paid on those cigarettes, I would have raised two fingers here to sell both on the cigarette boxes, and on the cardboard boxes, and out of the pocket, and out of the backpack, from the sports bag, from the trunk of the car, how it all works and how it all works. For the transport of cigarettes, an object that meets sanitary-hygienic and even health conditions, and then that there are still no unmistakable obligations based on taxes, based on public income. I know, during the former finance minister you couldn't register a car if you had unmistakable public income obligations, and now you can't even sell cigarettes, and soon it'll be that you can't even buy cigarettes. Because, as you've all introduced the administration, Minister, now you're going to have to ask a customer who sits in a hygienic, sanitary and health institution, and who has a pre-negotiation with cigarette suppliers, to show and confirm that he has settled all obligations based on public incomes, to buy a pack of cigarettes. It will be, I guarantee, and this one will tell him, please, and take this bill, wait for Christmas outside, they want to take the money. It's pre-named, pre-normized, unnecessary. Obviously, conditions are being created for monopolies, because if someone has 200 kiosks, it takes billions to get them in a position to meet the conditions under this law. It's the one who's stolen the money by now. This is now some original capital accumulation. It's all clean and flat on the table, and down there, what we've been doing, don't ask us anything. We're going to give some million political parties that are in power, but that's why we're looking for these guys right now. Not everyone can sell cigarettes, but it must now be a representative object, so there's a special label on it to sell cigarettes. It's like Serbian citizens don't know where cigarettes are sold or where they can buy them. I'll see you around. You may no longer be MPs and ministers. We'll just have an even bigger number of MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25868	People's MP, I'm warning you, for the second time, that the time allowed is exceeded.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25869	Are you speaking to me as acting president of the Republic or president of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25870	Mr. Nikolic, I give you a warning that even after my warnings, you have continued to conduct an argument and to insult, on the basis of article 101, I give you a warning. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bora Stanimirović, Zivodarka Dacin, Rade Bajic and Milos Nesovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25871	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, once again on the famous 34th member of the United States who refers to the merchants for a little bit. The SPS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to this article and I will explain this amendment on its behalf. We suggest that item 2 point 1) be deleted, because we have seen that this is a rigorous member when it comes to the conditions to be met on behalf of retailers on small tobacco products. Namely, four conditions are required. The first is that it has a pre-contract with a trader on large tobacco products; that it has met the conditions in the case of hygiene-sanitary and health conditions, means that the facility meets these conditions; the third is that it has an object that meets the conditions i.e. the rules relating to municipal activity, the performance of municipal activity; and the fourth condition is that there are no unfulfilled obligations on the basis of public revenues. We asked to delete Article 1 because indeed this member is, and I think you will agree, the source of corruption, bribery and illegal activities. It is certain that there will be very few large traders who will be granted permits, especially when it is known that there are a lot of cash amounts to be paid, and secondly, that it is awaiting the government's discretionary right to grant it to trade large. So there will be few of them, and they will be brought into a monopoly position to give permission to traders for a little bit so they can trade for a little bit. It is certain that there will be a lot of those who will want to deal with retail trade, but will be conditioned by large traders, which is, therefore, a source and corruption and other illegal activities, when it comes to obtaining pre-contracts. making a pre-contract. That is why we believe that despite the rigorous conditions, this is one of the most rigorous ones in the background and we are asking that item 1) be deleted from this article's position 2). It will therefore avoid a wholesaler, practically prescribing the conditions under which someone can deal with retail trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25872	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Here's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25873	A colleague, Rada Bajic, explained our reasons for the proposal to delete point 1) from this article, item 2, and I would not particularly explain it. I just want to give an example. Let's say, if we're taking a hearty stand and we want to become a part of Europe, to enter Europe, everywhere in the modern world, there's also a sale of cigarettes from machines, so that whoever sells cigarettes from machines, which are exposed in public places, mostly in halls and the like, will provide all these conditions, and that's one kind of retail. I think we're making some of these legal decisions absurd. As I've already said, someone has to use a special vehicle to drive tobacco from the field to the first processor, here's how we get into a situation like this, to prevent some general solutions from people doing things like this, so that they can organize automatic sales. Whether or not this will apply to the sale of ice cream, whether or not they will have to provide sanitary conditions for selling ice cream on the street, from machines, etc. I think there are other reasons besides those that my colleague listed, about the pre-contract, because what he really means. To win -- you have to have a pre-contract, it's important that you have a later contract and that you can function, supply your retail. It's certain that whoever doesn't have a contract won't even get that job - to supply his retail. Then why one of these solutions? We do not see any reason why this amendment we have proposed would not be accepted by the government, and if not, let the congregation majority accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25874	Are you answering for this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25875	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, if Article 34 cannot be deleted already, certain provisions can be deleted, and this one, which the MPs have pointed out, is really absurd and does not serve to regulate the situation in the area of production, transport and collection of public revenues from tobacco production. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that Article 34, paragraph 1) suggest that an undertaking, i.e. an entrepreneur, can trade in small tobacco products if it has concluded a pre-contract on the supply of tobacco products with large tobacco products traders. It would be stupid to write even -- if he had a contract on supply, because you don't prescribe it for any kind of goods. No one in Serbia has to show you who is involved in the sale of small-scale products, a contract, and some pre-contract with a large-scale trader from whom these goods are supplied. It must show invoices, severances, business books, whether or not it pays public income obligations. And to show you a deal with a wholesaler and even a pre-negotiation condition for him to do a certain job, now I'm asking you, who you wrote it for. I mean, it's the big-time merchants. If the terms are already prescribed by the minister, and the agency is checking whether they are met, why didn't you make a commitment here to what the pre-contract would look like? Now you've put all these little, tiny cigarette salesmen, tobacco products, reprocessings, depending on the big, "big fish," which is why this law is written. You write it so they can work easier, and you should write a law to keep them in check. What did you protect the merchant now for a little bit from the wholesaler? What conditions will he set for him? Because, look, it doesn't matter if they get permission to trade on a little cigarette or not. And what if this one doesn't give a prenup, but sets out conditions that don't even comply with the law? The retailer has no pre-negotiation; the government says - we have prescribed conditions, the agency says - the conditions are not met. The little ones disappear, the ones who feed the kids, the family, they slowly disappear, they close their facilities, and the big ones who have pre-negotiations with the big dealers, they expand, they develop. A monopoly on tobacco, government, agency, and "big, big, big fish" for citizens. You will be wheat, you will be onion, corn; do not interfere in tobacco; do not interfere in oil... Some political parties are not allowed to deal with politics, and members of some political parties produce drugs. It's been proven these days. Think carefully about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25876	In order to proceed with the session, I schedule a meeting with the heads of the parliamentary groups in the cabinet at 14.15 p.m. and set a break until 15.00 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and we can continue to work, discuss details of the tobacco bill. Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ) Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here's a word from MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25878	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to Article 35, which requires that Article 35 be deleted. For what reason? Because these members are regulated to obtain authorisation to conduct retail trade on small tobacco and tobacco products. Among other things, it is prescribed that those who wish to engage in the retail trade of tobacco and tobacco products must request from the tobacco approval agency and that authorisation shall only be valid for a year. Also, he has to pay 3,000 dinars of tax to be able to sell tobacco and tobacco products for a little bit. One quite logical question arises - what about small-town shops, in places that are quite far from larger centres; a store that has only two - three types of cigarettes in the range of its goods, has no people's ministry to explain to them that the retail trade in small tobacco and tobacco products is performed only in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, as well as larger urban environments. Tobacco and tobacco products are sold in small rural areas with 50, 60, 70 houses, which have only one store, and the buyer can only buy basic food products and the seller holds two or three types of cigarettes the smoker can buy. In this way, if this provision remains, which is rigorous, be assured that the sellers will not keep these products because it is not worth it; yet without the ministry they do not know that retailing is used on tobacco and tobacco products from 5% to 8% on retail. So the profits are small, almost zero and he has to pay the license fee; he still has to point out in a special place, visibly marked, that he has the right to sell tobacco and tobacco products. What was he, ladies and gentlemen, doing so far, that salesman in that store? He's been granted approval by the competent state authorities, various inspections I've been talking about. Is it necessary to reassess extensive documentation and apply to be able to sell in some rural environment (as I said, there are 100 or 200 residents) two or three types of tobacco products? The position of the Soviet Union is that this is an additional burden on retail. Instead of preventing black sales, individuals from these villages will be allowed to buy tobacco and tobacco products in a larger place and to resell it at far higher prices, as sellers will not be stimulated to keep those products in their shops. Please, when voting, adopt this amendment to the Soviet Union, for purely practical reasons, so as not to harass citizens, not just sellers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25879	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25880	Well, if I'd known the minister wasn't here, I wouldn't have answered about this amendment. I think it's all said in favour of eradicating this member, but I'm interested, if the member stays, which was managed by the legislator when he predicted in paragraph 3 or should I say approved the company or the undertaking involved in the retailing of tobacco that the authorisation to deal with this business should only be paid a year after obtaining approval. I wonder, what was the proposer's conduct in such a rigorous law, in which almost everything was planned in advance, suddenly something appears that doesn't exist for any other activity. It is always a condition for the authorisation of certificates that you have paid the amount necessary to grant the authorisation. Someone here will get permission to work and only after a year, practically after the approval expires, they'll have to bring in proof that he has paid 3,000 dinars, that condition for granting approval to do the job. I don't see the point, I don't understand why such a provision. Speaking of this member, indeed the proponent has gone to the end, in a co-dependence, I would say, by prescribing obligations to those who want to deal with this business, who are not criminals, who have been engaged in this business and so far in the status of social enterprises or in the status of private entrepreneurs; they are so burdened with this member and those members before him, that it will really be very difficult to meet these obligations and to deal with this job usefully for the state. Unfortunately, we can't talk about individuals who will only be poisoned by this tobacco, but there's no other purpose for tobacco in the human organism than to poison. Traffic of that stuff, alcohol, oil and oil derivatives is what fills the budget. So, the government regulates this to fill the budget, but she didn't worry that there should be as many people in this business as possible. It's obvious that she's so out of control that rare individuals will be able to do a very lucrative and profitable job.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25881	Is anyone else applying for a debate on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25882	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs - except for some amount of money that defines how much of that compensation is, and then in the explanation of the rejection of this amendment that we have submitted, we are taking care of these people who are going to deal with it - but when a member of the law was written, no one took care that it is so difficult for it to work, because it is either being arranged for someone to make some big boards to show where tobacco will be sold, where it will not be, so every year a request is made to do the same thing, which you did a year ago, and you did nothing bad so you couldn't continue to work. It was not clear to me yet on the amendment to Article 12 that someone had not read the amendment well in the Government. They may not really understand Serbians in the government, they have more passports than they need, but I was surprised that the Legislative Committee for an amendment that we have submitted also did not understand Serbian, because when it is said that someone is calculating and paying taxes that is one thing, and when it is said that someone has determined the bill and charged you with the tax, well, then you have done something wrong. I expected, if the ministers do not know Serbian well, that the legislative committee living in Serbia should understand Serbian. Since there have been some arbitrary estimates of who is and who is whose coalition, so as not to make insinuations, we will only take naked facts. The last story is Leskovac, where we run power from the Socialist People's Party; when the directorial functions were taken away by the so-called establishment, which was a good part of the crisis headquarters, then the coalition partners came out of the O.R. together. The DOS, the SPS and the SRS came out. Congratulations on the coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25883	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? He has the right to the replica of MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25884	You are aware, Mrs. Micic, that the MP who was before me hurt the Rules of Procedure, but you pretended to talk to the vice president of the National Assembly, so you didn't have time to warn him. But there was also a serious insult at the expense of the SRS. We were said to be coalition partners with the SPS and the DOS. Well, a man can't insult us anymore, except to say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25885	Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) I remind you that the Legislative Committee has executed the legal and technical order of Article 35 by replacing the number "4" in paragraphs 5 and 6, so when preparing for publication of the law in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" this legal and technical editorial will be incorporated into the text of the law. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He has the word of the applicant for the amendment, MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where we were concerned, in our opinion, with an order where we asked for the word "retraction" to be replaced by the words "deceased validity". We think it's more correct to stand "decrease of validity" than to say "abduction," and that's repeated in paragraphs 1, 3, 4 and 6. In relation to article 36, I would say this immediately. We asked for a new member to be added behind article 36, which would read: "The tobacco and tobacco sales tax is paid by the manufacturer. In the case of imports of cigarettes, the sales tax shall be paid on customs duty. “ That is correct, what you have explained, or what the government has explained, is that it is governed by tax regulations. But we don't think it's a waste of it standing in this tobacco law. We therefore propose that the Assembly accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25887	The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25888	I wouldn't want to draw attention to the formalities in this article of the bill. I'd better draw your attention to the essence. This member is very dangerous and rigorous. It relates to the withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out the retail sale. The legislator says he will withdraw approval if the trader ceases to meet the conditions set out in Article 34. There are at least two conditions in article 34 that would make him not be able to lose his approval once. One condition is that pre-negotiation with whoever supplies it to the slave, with someone who does it big. What does that mean if there's no more pre-negotiation, and there's a contract for the goods to be delivered to. The second one is much more rigorous, and these are unmistakable public income obligations. What if the retailer has a few unmistakable public income obligations of 3, 5, 6 days, the agency is already stepping in and taking away his business authorisation, and he is setting up a public income obligation. In Article 36, only one way a retailer can recover the authorisation, which is if a judicial verdict abolishs a solution to the offence, or on criminal charges. He doesn't say anywhere that the bill promoter is going to complain to a retailer who deals with tobacco for the agency's decision to withdraw his license. He doesn't have any legal instruction, he won't have it in a solution. Do we still have a case of a state authority issuing a solution that has no right to appeal or to conduct a administrative dispute? In case the agency gets a notice (here and says from whom it gets a notice and within what time), perhaps falsely, perhaps at that time, in that time notice from one state administration to the other, change the circumstances on the ground, but in case it gets that notice, it shall be withdrawn from a retailer. What if he's wrong? There's no telling who he's going to complain to or who can undo the agency's solution. It's just a matter of work if you tell me it's the agency that's going to cancel out. Because it's a cadiya. He can't sue and judge. You've already written here that in certain cases there can be no administrative dispute. This member of the 36th is inconclusive, going to the expense of the merchant, and that looks like the cutting of the branch you're sitting on. There's a traffic tax on these shops. From that sales tax should be maintained and the judiciary, and health care, and education, the military, the police, all obligations of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25889	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 36a be added after article 36a. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. If I understood the applicant, he explained this amendment as well. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radojko Petrovic and Rajko Baralic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25890	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, along with MP Rajko Baralic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 40. A bill of this law. This Article lays down the powers of a Republic agricultural inspector and, inter alia, he is authorised to withdraw tobacco and cut tobacco, produced or placed on the market contrary to the provisions of this law. Secondly, there is one very strange authority, and we will see with the amendment what is required and what is strange, which is why this proposal needs to be changed, that it can destroy the breakup, that the order to destroy the scattered tobacco and bring a solution to it, but within seven days after the confiscation has been carried out, or after the destruction of tobacco and the destruction has been carried out. This deadline can be accepted, for three days, when it comes to the withdrawal of tobacco, because there is time to prove whether or not the manufacturer was right. But when it comes to the destruction of devastation and decomposed tobacco, this is absurd. What does that mean, to make a solution to the destruction done within seven days? Imagine, Inspector, that the warrant, the tractor prairie, the scattered tobacco, and it says, you'll get a solution within seven days, an explanation will be given for why the destruction was done. I really don't think it has any purpose, and that's why the amendment proposes to bring a solution to the inspector and to leave a seven-day deadline, to threaten, and if tobacco is not proven to be produced, that is, a seed breakdown by the tobacco regulations and that it is in accordance with this law, then it's okay to execute destruction. That is why the amendment proposes to give that period of seven days. This allows the correction to be made, if the inspector is in error to allow through the complaint to prove the error. Otherwise, if the tobacco is destroyed, then there's no point in complaining or anything, and there's really no point in the government not accepting this. I don't know what kind of explanation that is, and what concept in the tobacco law is changing. In fact, it protects the manufacturer and the state so as not to do any damage. You bring a solution, and it's seven days to eventually prove whether or not it has deviated from the rules, and if you don't prove you're destroying the destruction, and not first destroy the breakup, you'll destroy the planted tobacco and then you'll get a solution within seven days. I think the reason why this amendment can be accepted is convincing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25891	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25892	You have before you a serious amendment, meaningful and justified, which should be accepted and which the Government of the Republic of Serbia should have accepted, based on basic postulates, on determining someone's guilt or some irregularities, on a complaint procedure, on a settlement by appeal, and the train won't leave. You don't get anything by the inspector coming in like a harachli and saying, "Stick the tobacco without a solution." In the interpretation of this article in 40, you went so far as to provide for the agricultural inspector to order the keeping and delivery of records and reports in a prescribed manner. I hope the inspectors don't go now and order something done the prescribed way. They control whether something is done in a prescribed way, and the regulation orders how to do it. What does that mean now? The inspector comes in and orders something to be done the prescribed way. Let's get Ali to have more armies, just to write as many specifics as possible, and banish those who are in charge. This is one of the main ones. When the inspector thinks he's right and the tobacco is to be destroyed for now, he orders destruction, and within three days, he'll issue a solution to that. To that solution, someone will have the right to appeal. Then what does he get? It would be like if during a death sentence you decided to kill someone and let the family complain, maybe it would prove he shouldn't have been killed. The family that's supported by this, when you destroy the tobacco, it's like you killed them. It takes a year to survive without any food and no means to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25893	A representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Joca Arsic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25894	The Honorable Presidency, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, fellow MP Radojko Petrovic, who, along with Rajko Baralic, submitted this amendment to Article 40, explained the reasons for the submission of this amendment. I'd just like to add, with what he said, that this is happening again, what we've already talked about -- if a decision is made to subtract, bring a solution to the destruction, what after that? Here are the deadlines that are very short, and in the last position of this Article 40th, it is said that the costs incurred in the withdrawal of tobacco, the destruction of the waste and the decomposed tobacco are borne by the person from whom the tobacco was taken away, i.e. the destruction and the decomposed tobacco destroyed. So, if it is proved that the inspector's solution is not valid, that it is done in a way that is not appropriate, that in that time someone could not prove otherwise - that tobacco or that the breakup is correct and that there is no reason for destruction, there is no consequence of who, by law, destroyed that tobacco and obliged to compensate for certain material damage. I do not see that these reasons presented cannot be accepted, that this shift of three to seven days will not be accepted, that all legal means can be exhausted within that time limit, to prove, if someone considers the decision invalid, that it is not right and that it is in such a way that the manufacturer, or the one who puts tobacco into the market or the one who cultivates it, and there are reasons for its destruction. In such short deadlines, we'll make it impossible for people to point out all the objections, to prove, if there's any reason to prove, that tobacco is correct, and proving after that, when it's destroyed, it's completely unnecessary, it's irrelevant. In any case, there is damage to both sides: for the state, for the tax collector, and for whoever is involved in the production and traffic of tobacco.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25895	Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Branimir Trajkovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about one restrictive policy, criminal policy, so in Article 46, paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 we've practically fixed the upper limit. So there's no range that's supposed to be from five to 10,000, but we've left it only to 10,000. So in heading 2, we delete "1,000 dinars to", so it remains the maximum, which is 5,000. In paragraph 3, "from 2,000" is deleted and only 10,000 dinars remain, and in item 4, "up to 5,000" is deleted. The government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that there needs to be some range, as it says here, for persons who commit violations of different weights, so that would differ. We think we should leave it only on this border, as we predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25897	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25898	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, our proposal is that this amendment correctly determines only one level of punishment, namely that the sentence is fixed by the upper amount of the government's proposal, so as not to leave the possibility of a large range that goes up to 20% of the maximum penalty. So the minimum penalty is 20% of the maximum penalty. There, in a highly sensitive area such as tobacco trade and production, it is left with the possibility of the discretionary right of one who determines and determines the penalty, that he can appreciate the extent of the offence of someone who committed the offence. We think that in this area where it is the interest of the state to be harsh, that there is a great discipline, there should not be the right of someone to determine which is and what is this violation, but rather that the punishment must be determined uniformly and only be the upper limit, that is, to remain only the harshest penalty, because those who disobey the law must answer for it and respect the detailed procedures provided for in this law. That's why we predicted it, especially if it's known that corruption and everything else hasn't been eradicated in our society, especially in the state apparatus. Any leaving the possibility of milder punishment opens the door to corruption, so it is cheaper for those who commit and make serious violations, to pay the lowest penalty and put a little into someone's pocket, than to once cut only the highest penalty and thus prevent corruption, because it is not left to someone to determine whether they can pay a lesser penalty, even though they have committed a more serious offense. In this way, the fight against corruption would help, if anyone cares about fighting corruption in this country. As far as we've had a chance to see, no one cares, especially those who are the most responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25899	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25900	Madam Chairman, the esteemed MPs, as far as the question of the range of penalties is concerned, of course, that one of the problems that we are finding on the ground, in the work of inspection services, is that it should happen so-called. Negotiating on the level of punishment. It's a very harmful phenomenon and there's Mr. Michael's absolutely right. Clearly, to some extent, the elimination of this range would be at least a partial cure for it. However, there are two problems with that. First, there's one system law, the Law of Infractions, which determines that in our legal system things are determined in this way. I'd say it's important, if we want to solve this problem, to start with this system law that then determines the way in which the violations are determined and in other laws. So we can't change the whole system just by changing it in this law. At the same time, we should consider how to meet realistically different offences that will take place in real life and give them some penalties. Indeed, if we look at this particular law, we can imagine that it exists for the same violation of two or three intensities in terms of tax evasion or some violation. In the existing system, it's hard to imagine how we can punish them with the same level of punishment. So the answer is yes. The truth is that the existence of a range of penalties in our system is one of the sources of corruption. However, it is something that needs to be laid down in a systematic way, I think, in the Law of Infringement, and then conform to all the laws that have these breaking provisions. Finally, when doing so, it is necessary to think carefully, and this question is not quite as easy as, in that case, if we no longer had that range, to predict for the same infringements some form of stairs or something that could further abolish discretion in the application of this law itself. However, things here are relatively clear. Penalties are tough and they are minimally sharp, so in this particular case this should not lead to major problems in the application of this law, but the point in some system way is quite acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25901	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word is by MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25902	This is also about tightening criminal policy in the case of violations in the production of tobacco products. The law states: "For the violation of Article 1 of this article, a safeguard measure of the ban on the production of tobacco products and the erasure of the brand of cigarettes from the Register of branding of tobacco products may be imposed on a period of no longer than three years." Our amendment would, in practice, allow those products to be deleted permanently and read as follows: "For the violation of Article 1 of this article, a protective measure of the ban on the production of tobacco products will also be imposed, which entails the erasure of the brand of cigarettes from the Register of branding of tobacco products." Namely, what's this about? These are rigorous measures, it is a dragon measure, but for this kind of offense, maybe we should go with something like this, so that we don't get the producers on the side so we have a later problem with this. Only from these initiatives is this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25903	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic together submitted to the 51st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word is by MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25904	Again, it is about tightening the criminal policy, which states in article 51: "The fine of 200,000 to 400,000 dinars will be punishable for the violation of a legal person - a trader of large tobacco products - if he commits wholesale sales contrary to the provisions of this law". We predicted that something different would be said, or we said to the legal person - the dealer of large tobacco products - the license will be withdrawn and the fine of 400,000 dinars will be fined, if they are wholesaled against the provisions of this law. "So the difference is that we don't tolerate that range again, we're going with the maximum penalty and, plus, we're subtracting the license. You can imagine what could happen to wholesalers importing foreign goods if they break this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25905	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25906	As in the previous case, this is about determining a one-level sentence, which is at a maximum level. The fact is, Minister Djelic is right, violations are regulated by special law. That law, unfortunately, hasn't been changed since we got here, and it should. Secondly, this is compared to that law back specialis, which he mentioned, this law can determine something different from the Law of Infractions. That's another thing. Third thing, we've mentioned that this is a very sensitive area where there's a lot of money going around, and there's a lot of stories about it, from smuggling to everything else. That's why we felt that here we should go with maximum penalties; another thing, that the one who wronged the provision of this law must be taken away from the license. So, if it's worth it to break the law, pay the penalty for violations to keep doing the job, because he's better off breaking the law somewhere, earning a profit and paying the fine from that profit. We have already advocated the fact that whoever disobeys the provisions of this law has absolutely no longer been able to do so and to lose his license, and that simply, he can no longer deal with the work. That is why we have proposed such an amendment, and we believe that the tightening of these provisions can lead order into a large-scale area of tobacco traffic, since it is demarcated by this law, and I don't see why someone would have a problem and why would it be against introducing order. I urge that these penalties be accepted as maximum, since Serbia has a rather irregular area of tobacco traffic. It will take a lot of time and energy to introduce order, especially in the area of tobacco traffic on a large and small scale. We believe that in this initial period criminal provisions should be much stricter, that they should be regulated by the loss of a license if someone goes wrong about this law and that this is a good way to stop corruption and to seduce order. That is why I urge the Government to accept this amendment, because it is in the government's interest, because order and self-regulation of this area will allow more resources in the budget. In this way, we would certainly contribute to filling the budget, and not, as Minister Djelic mentioned, that various machinations, trading around the level of penalties, simply withdraw money from the budget, as some inspector on the ground, by having someone who has sinned and committed a misdemeanour to trade the fine, to reduce the fine to a minimum, to put some small money in his pocket and to damage the state for a certain amount. In this way, the poor budget, the em contributes to the creation of corruption, and that is why we believe that here we must go the harshest, in these criminal provisions, and this amendment is what makes it possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25907	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic together submitted to the 52nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Branimir Trajkovic, on behalf of a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25908	Here's what this is all about - in Article 52 we also predicted tightening the criminal policy in this area, so, in the tobacco area, but I would stick to this second part of Article 52 where we became more attached to Article 4. I'll read this to you: "A fine of 50,000 dinars will be fined by a legal person if he sells tobacco products to a minor. The person in charge of the infringement under Article 4 will be fined by a fine of 10,000 dinars. A 25,000 dinar fine will be fined by an entrepreneur for the violation of Article 4 of this article. An infringement of Article 4(4) shall be punishable by a natural person, a seller, in the amount of one diary. All goods subject to violation of Article 4 of this Act shall be seized. "Let me just point out that Article 4 of this law speaks of a ban on the sale of minors and a warning about the harmfulness of greetings. If you remember, we have submitted an amendment to this article, in which we asked for something more precise to stand, for example. that a pack of cigarettes, apart from the fact that smoking is harmful to health, has a excise stamp with the number of cigarettes, prices, etc. But the government refused. In that Article 4, we have also warned about the sale of cigarettes without excise stamps and we have asked that the agency be the one to monitor, or control the respect of this Article 4, not as in law, that this is done by the Ministry of Health, but on a proposal from the Agency, because we felt that the agency could and could not make any proposal without the minister responding to it. That's why this criminal policy in this article 52 is so little more rigorous, as we suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25909	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 52. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25910	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, in previous presentations, we have heard suggestions that maximum penalties should be increased, i.e. that maximum penalties should be applied. When it comes to our amendment, it is just facing the opposite direction, but you also noticed that we have not submitted amendments to the previous members, precisely because we did not want to protect large manufacturers and large tobacco dealers. In fact, everything we've been listening to, how it's going to be to take away the work licenses, take away the licenses and apply large fines, it's one big utopia, because it's certain that whoever gets that privilege of doing trade is already in some way, so to speak, in a scheme with this state and with the agency, as well as with ministers who are members of this agency. On the other hand, it's obvious, and they were alive, so we see, when we run an analysis after a year or two, that the largest number of people being punished will be in the retail area, and that it's the people who are the least guilty of the state of money who are going to have to give tickets and suffer the greatest sanctions. Namely, our amendment says that in Article 52(1), the amount of "100,000" should be replaced by "20,000", and the amount of "400,000", replaced by "100,000". Also in heading 3rd, the amount of "50,000" to be replaced by "5,000", and the amount of "200,000" to be replaced by "50,000 dinars". These are fines that are quite appropriate to those retailers and should be borne in mind that if someone has one trade, or a store where they sell tobacco, once you punish them with a sum of 400,000 dinars, they can stop doing that work, while I repeat again, for that tobacco producer and the wholesaler and the millions fines are not problematic. He'll pay very easily. On the other hand, we are referring to the Law on Infringements when it suits us, and we have an example of some legal solutions, when it comes to construction, etc., and we have provided for a prison sentence of up to three years; then the Law on Public Procurement, where we are about to be covered by those favorites of this state, civil servants, followed the Law on Infringements, and provided for minimum penalties, and these are huge amounts; and finally, we are looking for a middle here. We of the Soviet Union believe that at least these merchants in a small way should be protected in a way and threatened with smaller penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25911	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic submitted. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible and that the amendment has not been accepted, as it does not correct the amendment, but a new amendment is being submitted. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25912	The question arises as to why the Government of the Republic of Serbia in article 53 envisioned some respect, to say and a relief to the slide, according to it, renowned producers who were doing this job on 1 January 2002, when in fact, if you are growing a member 53, it does not. The government says - since we have domestic renowned producers who were engaged in this activity on 1 January 2002, we approve of them doing this job, if they meet the conditions set out in Article 22. And that goes for those who have never done this job, because if they meet the conditions set out in Article 22, the agency will suggest that he can do the job and be registered in the register. What's the difference? What is the privilege now of the Vranj tobacco industry, the minister often likes to mention it; what is the privilege of the Nis tobacco industry, which has dealt with it backwards for 100 years, when on the day of entry into force of this law it has to meet the conditions that anyone who wants to participate in the tender; well, when they meet, and that is Article 22, the conditions for participation in the tender are another five or ten days for the agency to grant them the service, or to be registered in the register; that does not mean anything to that factory. If you had written: those who have worked so far continue to deal, in accordance with the law, I would understand. And then you control them. And you say, if they meet the requirements of Article 22. You bring them back to the beginning as if they didn't even exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25913	Here's a word from the finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25914	I would say that this is an important member because it is clear that it wants to give opportunity and legal certainty for Vranje and Nis, on the other hand, one has been observed, so to speak, hyperactivity in the last year and a half in various courts, and for the purposes of registering with competent authorities, some companies that claim to be producing cigarettes. One of the reasons for the existence of this law is that it is precisely to be arranged and that there are minimum conditions for someone to be involved in the production of cigarettes. It's part of the philosophy of this law, so that it wouldn't happen to us, which is happening in some neighbouring countries, if you had a siat, a few dozen cigarette manufacturers, and a number of them (and it's held by a number of people from these competent inspections, competent authorities in those countries) are actually a front for a trade that is illegal and which attracts and some companies that have no intention of dealing with this business in the long term and in the industrial way. It is important here to understand that there is a double thing, and that is that it is necessary from 1 January 2002 not only did they have to deal with the production of cigarettes, but they did the production of cigarettes and they were able to meet these conditions. I would like to point out that there are a number of serious projects that developed last year, and some in 2001, in which the initiators of these projects want to meet the conditions laid down in Article 22 and those projects, that gauge, that industrial intensity, of course, will absolutely be able to claim the license when it comes to that moment. So, the only reason why this date is important is that at the moment that they move to grant authorisation to carry out cigarette production activities, they're all in the same position, so that it's not that for some people who just remembered at one point to enroll, to write in their business description - the production of cigarettes, there are some interpretations that they need to get permission to do that production by automatism. This is for Nis and Vranje, and on the other hand for those industrial projects that will certainly appear, for those who want to meet these conditions; of course, it's all part of the philosophy of this law, which is just about to attract and who want to invest, as much as it takes to invest, to produce at least 2.5 billion. pieces of cigarettes per year on our market, and to buy at least 2,000 tonnes or, according to what is now part of the law, at least 50% of their own production in a given year to buy from domestic producers. I hope I have made this question clear, which is why it is very important that this amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25915	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia-DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25916	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the corrections of the amendments Mr Mamula remembered to interpolate a sentence that reads, meaning after the stance: "Producers of tobacco products that were produced by these products on 1 January 2002", he suggested that the deadline be prolonged, and then inserted the sentence "or had a license to produce tobacco products issued by the Federal and Republic Government, are entered in the register of tobacco products producers if they meet the conditions set out in Article 22 of this Act". There was really no reason for the Government to treat this as a new amendment, for the simple reason that this text improves the current text of this member. On the other hand, this is about so-called. I've acquired rights. If someone has previously met the legal requirements to get a license to produce tobacco products, then I don't see any reason to deny it, especially if we retain discretionary rights, so, let's say, it turns out that he again meets all the conditions, and then we don't let him produce, to deal with this production, then it's about unauthorized favouring tobacco factories in Nis and Vranj. What would they be benefiting from? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25917	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of Parliament Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic, together with Ljubisa Maravić, Đura Lazić, Milan Stanković, Joca Arsić, Zoran Angelković, Milan Jankovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Toma Busetic, submitted to the same amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 55th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please, the word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25918	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs' Club of the Party of Serbian Unity has tabled an amendment to Article 55, which requires that this member be deleted. For the sake of the general public, since it is short, I will read only what Article 55 is about: "Employees and entrepreneurs carrying out retail trade in tobacco products are obliged to obtain a marketing authorisation for small tobacco products and to highlight a special label under Article 35(4) of this law no later than 6 months after the date of entry into force of this law". Ladies and gentlemen, there's a logical question here. All retail owners, in order to be able to deal with retail trade, including tobacco, were granted a permit to work from the competent authority in the municipality. It's mostly budget and finance departments. They previously obtained consent from market inspection, sanitary inspections, environmental inspections, labour protection inspections. The question arises: if they now have to ask within six months for special consent for retail tobacco and tobacco products, what will happen to their previous solutions? Whether these solutions will be put out of effect and whether they will have to re-do all of that procedure to get permission to work in their retail facilities. For this reason, we of the SSJ party felt that we should delete this member and that all those who are now selling tobacco and tobacco products continue to do so, because they have already met all legal requirements according to the existing positive regulations governing this matter, so they can work to sell tobacco products. I think it would be necessary, if Amendment 7 or the amendment of the Soviet Union to Article 35 is adopted, to adopt this amendment to Article 56. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25919	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branimir Trajkovic, Djordje Mamula and Dusan Ilic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25920	Since this is also the last amendment that we have today on this tobacco law, I am surprised that the government has rejected something like this, since practically this amendment of ours is achieving transparency in this article. It is said, in the appointment of the Agency's authority - the Government of the Republic of Serbia will appoint members of the Management and Supervisory Board and the Director of the Agency within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law. We propose Article 2 which would read: "The decision to appoint members of the Management and Supervisory Board and Director, as well as the statutes of the Agency, will be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I don't think there should be anything controversial about it; if we want transparency, why don't we let the public know what the agency did. So that's just one good intention, and I think you should accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25921	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25922	Finally, we have also welcomed a good amendment from these proposings who can also support the SRS parliamentary group. Why am I saying that? We have bad experiences with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. All obligations imposed on her by the laws passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are avoided. That's how you feel about this board of directors. If the government seriously thought it was law enforcement, she would have appointed a board of directors of broadcasting agencies three months ago. And if there were an obligation to be published in the Official Messenger, we could come out here and ask from this pay phone -- why hasn't it been announced that the board of directors and those agencies have been established. That is why you should accept this amendment and remain in the government's obligation to appoint members of the board of directors and supervisors as soon as possible, it is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", where all acts are published and published, so that we know. I know it has to, but I didn't read that the composition of the board of directors of the broadcasting agency was published. (Božidar Djelic, from the place: It has not been formed yet. ) It has not been formed, and the legal deadlines have expired and you boast that they have expired, and you have not yet formed a board of directors of broadcasting agencies. And in order to know whether or not you've formed, we're going to read "The Official Messenger." Since you never provide for a fine for the Government of the Republic of Serbia in criminal provisions if it does not comply with the obligations imposed by law, the appointment of a board of directors and supervisory board which has not been carried out under the law must be subject to some sanctions. And what sanctions, when you don't allow here to raise the question of the responsibilities of individual ministers or the entire government, although it's purely business-clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25923	Are any of the other authorised participants applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Does the proposing representative, Mr Bozidar Djelic, want the closing word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25924	To general enthusiasm. Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, I'd like to say just a few words concerning the debate we had over these amendments. I'd like to point out that, of course, the tobacco law itself can't do everything, the harmful phenomena of tobacco are multiple. We have often heard in this debate, tobacco is poison and should do everything in the longer term to reduce tobacco consumption in our country. Over the next few months and years, the issue needs to be relocated to debate tobacco. The second thing, it's a matter of criminal activities surrounding tobacco trafficking, smuggling. Of course, we have several elements here, too. In doing so, this law cannot do everything by itself, because it implies further strengthening the work of our inspection services, further international co-operation. You noted that last week we concluded a deal with Republika Srpska on the co-operation of tax administrations that will exchange data, which will further prevent criminal acts, including cigarette smuggling between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. The law that awaits us needs to be cut, I hope very clearly yes or no, whether tobacco or cigarettes can be advertised. If so, then in what way and what are the restrictions, and it is not the subject of this law. In addition, if we look at his key goals, he should be completed in two ways. The first element, these are amendments and additions to customs law, as regards the carriers themselves, as well as the Foreign Trade Act concerning the importer; we will make an effort, and we will suggest to you, to introduce the same strict measures for the transport and import of cigarettes. There have been questions about this debate over the amendments themselves, and I announce that in a few weeks this house will have amendments and additions to these laws that are now in Serbian jurisdiction and are to be found in front of this house, in order to complete the legislation in this domain. The second element is fiscal policy, and here we have the issue of harmonising our fiscal policy with Montenegro. It's something we have to do to have a smooth flow of goods between Serbia and Montenegro. Likewise, the gradual alignment of our regulations with those of the European Union. However, the experience in the last two years with these specific excise duties has been good and we can now, two years later, say that this fiscal policy largely, of course with the prevention of smuggling, has enabled Nis and Vranja to recover. Indeed, it had an effect, as many international producers and importers will admit, to tax those import marks more than what we produce at home. It's an additional cause for this much interest in our tobacco factories in Nis and Vranj, and we're finding it today. I'd just like to say three more things. The first goal, as indicated, is to encourage domestic production. In addition to the additional effect of the parent committee that has been designated, we have a very strong provision that will ensure that at least 2,000 tonnes or 50% of annual production of any cigarette manufacturer on our territory must buy from domestic producers. That's a strong measure. Some will say, they should have gone one step further and obliged them to install these varieties into cigarettes. That would already be demagogy, because, as your specialists will admit, the tobacco is not ready yet, but it will be. There's a strong incentive measure here, when they're already buying that tobacco, to use it in their cigarettes, because otherwise they're gonna have to throw it away and destroy it. So it's a very powerful incentive for our production. We know it's one branch that can work a lot, and not just that. When you look at the foreign trade balance of the tobacco industry, no matter how important it is in some economic sense already today, no matter how much it has brought public revenue -- it's about 15 billion dinars for last year, we have to notice that it has a negative effect on our foreign trade because of the import of raw materials, because of the import of aromas, because of the import of machines. Almost all our domestic producers are importing today. This provision will allow our domestic capacities to be employed, that raw materials come from Serbia. And, of course, that's certainly the goal of all of this, with privatisation and a license to sell cigarettes, we expect several thousand new jobs. What I forgot to say is that I want to remind you of one of our promises and it is certainly not forgotten, which is that one of the permits will be tied to the Kragujevac. Because, as noted at the time of the restructuring of the Zastava Group, one of the projects that will be covered is that one of the cigarette factories is built in Kragujevac. I can announce that there will be one of the first permits to build a hall in that city. That means several hundred direct jobs for that city. Of course, there are many other projects, and we can be pleased that one number of groups in both Vojvodina and other parts of our country are preparing for investment. That way, we'll have strong allies to fight smuggling and to employ our capacities. So this law definitely, and along with these amendments, has a powerful effect on improving our external trade for this branch and will provide several hundred, and indirectly several thousand new jobs in our country. The second goal would be to further edit this branch. There's no monopoly here, there's just a regulation of strict conditions so someone can deal with wholesale, retail, cigarette production in our country. Those who meet the conditions can count on being able to perform that activity. Of course, the state must look at the market balance at any moment, fiscal interests and possibly, as noted in one member, and previously assumed obligations that we have. That is why we expect a gradual accumulation on this market, but certainly not a monopoly. As we expect, in the area of cigarette production, Serbia attracts those serious industrial players who want to bind their economic interests to Serbia and become its allies in the fight against smuggling, we also expect in other elements of this industry, wholesale and trade, and tomorrow we are driving and importing to those responsible players who will have something to lose and who will want to keep their position on the long term on our market. So there will be anything but suspicious intermediaries, those phantom firms that are made for one job, two, and then disappear without a trace. The third and final objective in this law is to ensure that all decisions concerning these extremely sensitive industries and branches are made available to the public and that no one in the government, in power, in any structure is in a position to make very important decisions in this domain anymore, and that someone else, that everyone in our country knows what those decisions are and by what criteria they are made. There's been a lot of discussion about this agency. Her role is clear. Initially, it is there to ensure transparency in decisions, that all those relevant factors that have something to lose to cigarette smuggling are present when such decisions are made and not only those, as regards the executive authorities, but also representatives of the industry. In addition, self-checking in the Government provides for an even wider political verification of all these decisions, not to mention, with what has been accepted, which is an amendment, that at least twice a year this house is informed of the activities of this agency, so that literally everything regarding tobacco is accessible to our public and that those who make decisions on licences, approvals, everything that concerns this industry, they know that one day (and that much, probably) should explain to the relevant committee of this assembly, with the presence of the media, and in what way you make some decisions. It seems to me that this is a good guarantee that the correct, unsuspecting decisions will be made in this agency and this way. Of course, I would like to say that this law itself could not have the effect that there is no one wider environment where our citizens now know that they should not buy cigarettes without excise stamps; that inspection services (which are not created, there are no new ones created by this law) do not make their work more efficiently and efficiently and, of course, there are no additional elements through entering our market of industrial manufacturers, serious players in wholesale and retail trade. We will further consider, with what has already been accepted as an amendment, the interest of these amendments on judicial decisions, which has been tabled by the SPS Group and this amendment, which extends by four days the deadline for the confiscation of goods. Through further consultations, we may accept one of them. I urge you to vote this law. This law will not in itself eliminate smuggling, if even a better and more orderly country than ours still have to fight smuggling; this means that it will not be a blitz, but a fight against it. But this law will enable us to encourage our domestic production of raw tobacco, to better regulate this industry and finally make all decisions made in the domain of that industry available to this respected home. It seems to me to be the best guarantee that we will continue on this pathway from a completely unregulated market, which was the cancer wound of our economy, and through the elements of corruption and political life, we will come to a much more orderly market and then focus on what must be a key issue, which is to reduce the consumption of tobacco in our country, especially among the younger generations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25925	I thank the Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, and I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Now several notifications: First, a session of the National Assembly Legislative Committee will be held on Wednesday, February 12, 2003, at 9 o'clock on the ground floor. Secondly, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to inform you that during the course of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was called upon at the request of the Government of Serbia, with the agenda set out in that request, I have received a request from a group of 109 MPs to convene the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly and only one item of the agenda was set out in that request: a bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, which was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Third, I would like to inform you that I have received a letter from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in which the Government informs us that, at the session held on 11 February of this year, the draft law on concessions, the draft law on employment and insurance in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law amending the Law on privatisation, is withdrawn. The government is seeking to withdraw those proposals from the further procedure, in order to create conditions for the adoption of the law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly within the deadline laid down in Article 5. Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. On this basis, and on the basis of requests from a group of 109 MPs, I called on the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, for Wednesday 12 February, starting at 10.00 p.m., with only one item on the agenda: a bill on the election of MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. Your call for the Third Extraordinary Session has been served. Finally, for the purpose of rationality and economics, in the day of voting, we will also approach the vote on the draft tobacco law, together with the law on the election of MPs. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25926	You, Mrs. Micic, severely injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by having scheduled a new extraordinary session, although this session is not over. Just because the government pulled three legal projects doesn't mean we're done with the agenda that the government hasn't withdrawn. I remind you, you cannot decide for yourselves when the session will be interrupted. You need a decision from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to do that. Article 94(3) The Rules of Procedure are rigorous — a session of the Assembly may be interrupted if decided by the National Assembly. By not going to the day to vote this session, you are interrupting this session of the National Assembly, you are scheduled a new extraordinary session, and even saying that the day for the vote of the new emergency session will be the day for the vote of the suspended emergency session, and you know that the extraordinary session is working on the predetermined agenda, which was requested by the motion for an emergency session. Did a group of 100 and some MPs ask for a day of voting from the Third Extraordinary Session within the Fourth Extraordinary Session? She didn't ask and you can't do it. Only the National Assembly can make its decision, but first, to answer me to the Administrative Committee, did you harm the Rules of Procedure when you disavowed the National Assembly, so you scheduled the Fourth Extraordinary Session in the course of the Third and interrupted the Third...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25927	We haven't made the fourth appointment yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25928	Only the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can decide to suspend work at this session and start a new emergency session. You, who claim that you have no right to interpret the Rules of Procedure at all, but only to carry it out properly, implement it properly, implement it in accordance with its provisions; it is now noted and felt that you are in fact violating the Rules of Procedure whenever you wish. This time you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Tomorrow's session can't begin. You can do anything, but you're much quieter than you were two years ago. This is out of fear, I understand it all. I would ask you to establish this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-11-0.u25929	Mr Nikolic, I can say that this is a specific situation, but given the obligation of the National Assembly, which stems from the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, under Article 5(1). The law implementing it, under which the National Assembly is obliged to pass a law on the election of MPs in the Serbian Parliament within 10 days of the date of entry into force of the Constitutional Charter, I believe that we should not risk, but rather postpone the day of voting in the day, and in accordance with the principle of rationality and economics, the day we vote on the law on the election of federal MPs. This concludes today's work. Good-bye and good-bye.
