ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32231	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MPs are prevented from attending: Marko Jaksic, Stanko Kovacevic, Sreten Mitrovica; Ratimir Svirčević and Teodora Vlahovic will be late. We continue to work on the agenda with a joint principled review on: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act; - Proposal for a Law on the granting of counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the Republic Roads Directorate. Before I give my word to the promoter's representative, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy, I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of MPs. There's a word for Mr. Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32232	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain these three draft laws in a few sentences. amending and supplementing the laws and laws on counter-guarantee, starting with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, where we have several elements of the technical nature but, most importantly, it is - a procedure that should lead to, by 2004, something that is rich and not quite famous in the history of tax policy in the Republic, should lead to the possibility of one control of natural persons. On the one hand, it is very important to draw a line in the Republic of Serbia and to have elements that will allow taxation to take place in the economic strength of taxpayers. In that domain we inherited a chaos, in the sense that if we look at real estate, the last attempt to record these properties was in 1996 and that since then we have a lot of things that haven't been recorded properly. These changes and additions propose an extension of the deadline for another four months to record assets exceeding 20 million dinars in the country and outside the country, for our fiscal residents, i.e. those who live and do more than 185 days in a given year in our country, or have most of the economic interests in our country. The goal is for this reform to be well understood. It is not "the witch hunt", to be very clear: it is not one attempt to examine the origin of the property, which of course does not mean, and it is something that we must make a good distinction in Serbia, that those who have violated the law in this way are getting any form of amnesty. In the event that laws are broken, or through one valid procedure to prove that a member of some criminal groups or groups of organised crime, we have all the necessary provisions in criminal laws, not only to tax but also to seizing and confiscation of that property. It's something that's a criminal procedure. Here we are talking about a regular procedure, a procedure that should allow the vast majority of our people who are just waiting for the possibility to sleep peacefully and to welcome what will be our reality, which is the tax controls of the natural persons, starting next year, to have an initial situation that will be realistic, which will allow them to record their economic strength and that is what Article 176 should enable, and the start of application is expected by 30 October of this year. That's what they can do, because that way, when that property is recorded, they'll be able to say -- that, when this particular tax operation is carried out, "that I had this economic power, I had that property, and in that way I'll be able to explain at all times what the harmony is and the discrepancy between the reported revenues in that year," I repeat, starting from the income of 2003, without having to sweat and say -- how it is possible that you bought such a villa or such an apartment, and there was no recording, no economic power at this time when Article 176 was implemented. Tax code. We suggested extending this deadline because the tragic killing of the Prime Minister and Operation Sabbe led to the fact that the envisaged activities in the explanation, in bringing this measure closer, could not have been carried out for very clear reasons at that time. It takes us a few more weeks to get this measure right. The tax is not voluntary, but it must be and this measure must be well understood. As a result, the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance will have the i.e. It has already begun this very rich activity in terms of explaining what is to be achieved with this measure. There will be contacts not only in Belgrade, not only with all those who need to help with potential taxpayers but also with the locale, with chambers of commerce, with employers' associations, so that we can make one cut of the situation and make the state stand behind a vast majority of people who want to sleep peacefully and pay taxes according to their economic strength. Another thing that is proposed here in terms of the practicality of all of this, so to speak, is that from recording, they are exempt from artistic images and other types of property, because we have seen that many have tried to immediately devalue one very important and serious measure by wanting to go to some form of vulgarization of the "grandma's ring" or some other things. This is not the way we want to violate the private business of all taxpayers. The tax administration has implemented, and these 200 taxpayers have already filed their tax records with the tax administration, who did so, so the privacy of this data has been ensured. They're only admitted to headquarters. A small number of authorized persons receive these applications and not only that, but further processing these applications is done through "bar codes" so that a very small number of people whose names I'm not going to tell today, because there are very few, have the possibility of uniting these data and having a whole picture. All of this is in the interest of privacy and confidentiality of information that is guaranteed by law; and if the tax administration wants, and that is its goal, to show that as long as the law respects privacy is guaranteed, but if the law is not respected, then the public has abused those who have violated tax discipline and committed a criminal act of evasion will also be public, but it must be very clear and very publically distinguished these two things. At this point, we will prove that the privacy and secrecy of those data will be guaranteed for people who want to record their assets, and that in this way, when the time comes to report incomes for 2003, the result of this measure is that a large number of people will report much higher revenues. In this way, we will finally have a slightly more realistic picture of what is the economic power of our taxpayers and, at that moment, the tax administration and tax inspectors, i.e. The tax police, as the most important, will have all the elements that the blade of the law will be directed towards those who, despite the opportunities they are given, draw a line, sleep peacefully, continue to stay in the gray zone, break the law, make tax evasion. The first thing that will happen to them is that they will have to pay a tax on property that will be established at a rate as if it were income and not property, so 20 per cent and there will be additional measures, including criminalities for those who do not take advantage of this benefit. So there's no deviation from this measure but we just want, given what happened, unfortunately, at the end of the first quarter of this year, the operation "Sabbe" that took the wave and that just didn't leave any room to talk about a measure like this, we want to do it the right way, but starting in 2004. Cross-control will take hold so that it is my appeal for all taxpayers to do this job extremely seriously and it is the core of the excessive changes and addition of the Tax Procedure Act and considering several others, because there were some concerns that I would like to explain a little bit closer. The first is that the tax identification number is no official secret. On the contrary, we expect that, especially with the introduction of a value added tax, it is also a well-known element for those who want to operate with any company, and additionally, we have better regulation of the mandatory collection process and a few other technical things, for example. The full harmonisation of this law to this law, which this esteemed home voted a few weeks ago, about the possibility of making pledges on moving things, so that they are fully in harmony and in harmony. That's what I wanted to say about the proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act. The second element for today's debate, which is tax, is the proposed amendments and additions to the Transport Tax Act. Here we have three key elements: the first element is a element concerning printed media and books. Here, let me say, this is a debate that has lasted for a long time, we have conditions to propose to abolish the sales tax on printed media; in the beginning, and I was very clear about this, our tax policy which has in many ways drawn closer to the practice that exists in the countries around us and in the countries of the European Union, we have indeed had a 20% high sales tax on printed media. Given that the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act have been in force since July 1st, it leads to harmonisation and opportunities for individuals, as they are called, to exercise pension rights, we know that there are many of them in the printed media, and that is an additional burden on finance and on our printed media. These finances are not in great shape and I can say that if the National Assembly votes the proposed amendment and the addition of the Transport Tax Act, it is a relief of some 600 million dinars that are proposed, so much less tax this year, it is our assessment, but there will be so much more room to pay pensions for fees and so that our printed media will be less dependent on their financial situation. It has been observed, especially in the first quarter of this year, that because of the difficult economic situation, a number of them are increasingly entering the practice of quasi-relamic supplements, various private groups are in this way, it can be said, I want to say openly, coming to a significant financial position according to some votes. I think this kind of vote will allow us to have, on an even longer deadline, printed media that will have one objective access to information, not on what financial group that has credited or, which is a private group that has decided to give them, and not on what other terms, to publish an addition, a special addition on 15 or 20 pages. I think both the media and the groups have been identified this way, and so the budget, this home, and our citizens are giving up one income on behalf of the possibility that the print media has enough resources to continue to be objectively informed. I think that, not just one financial one, but a very clear political message and a very clear message that this country wants a large number of printed media to report in an objective manner and in a way that, to say the least, shows that it is not yet a time to introduce only a cruel competition between them until some other institutions in our country are solidified. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I am honored to propose today, because thanks to better financial discipline, we are largely able to give up those 600 million dinars and that is good. The second key element of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Transport Tax Act concerns the financial lease, which is only the tax pandan of the Financial Lising Act, which was adopted by the home a few weeks ago. In this way, we will also have tax conditions for the licking to take the place that belongs to it in a modern financial structure, especially if you adopt the proposed changes and additions of this law; we will avoid such double taxation in the engine vehicle lease and thus our businesses, but also the administration, will have a more flexible way, that is, an instrument that instead of being the sole owners of a single rolling stock can take those vehicles, and that is something that will allow some of our institutions, some of our public enterprises, some of our ministries, to become large owners of a huge fleet, because it is not their function. If they need to be given the volume of the fleet through this measure they will find professionals who will be able to give them access to that fleet in a much more flexible way and that is good. I can say that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if one of these measures is adopted, of course, we will examine how many vehicles are the government and the ministries, or where they are the owners, and how much more flexible and really, when you specialize in functions, the cheaper way; because then it will become a function, a profession of various groups that will be in competition to offer the best conditions for giving these cars and some other basic funds to licking - experience close to us and a little further than in other countries shows that in this way, when some companies specialize for this, then we come to a much better group, or to a much better means. That is where I expect that if you vote these measures, that this will also be reflected in the budget for next year, that not only the Government, not just the Ministry, but public institutions, and then public enterprises, I expect companies that will be in the interest of it, to take full advantage of this opportunity not only to own some basic assets, including a rolling stock, but also to arbitrate what is better for them, and what is cheaper, to take on licking or shopping. The third thing, one amendment has proposed DOS, and we have decided as Government to accept it, is that, as far as fiscal cash registers are concerned, we allow them to be introduced by May 31st and that was to express the request of our domestic producers who needed more time than they predicted, to enter and make technical arrangements with those technology partners who have experience and patents for fiscal memory. Of course, we do not want that because there is one hard deadline, and that those who are supposed to be our domestic producers are unable to meet it, that in some ways it is a mechanism that this market will be introduced, and then serving fiscal registers to someone and only some importers or foreign producers. That is why we accept the amendment proposed by DOS, because it will enable our domestic producers, EI - Nis, and not only them, because there are also producers in Vojvodina, central Serbia, who can be able to produce in time and supply our entire market. These are the three elements I wanted to mention, as far as sales taxes are concerned. It means sales tax on printed media and on books, as well as financial licking and finally fiscal cash registers. The third element for today's discussion, and I end up with it, is giving counterguarantee to one loan where the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was yesterday, and today Serbia-Montenegro was guaranteed, so according to the statutes of the European Bank for Development, it is proposed to give counterguarantee to a 76m-euro loan that will allow our Road Directorate to restore 430km of roads. There were other counter-guarantees, we were talking here, but most of all, there are stories here about corridor 10 in central Serbia and those arms that allow you to connect corridor 10 with Shumadija; because you have one leg that goes to Cačka, that leg that goes from Cačka to Corridor 10. I can say that the preparations for the implementation of this loan have been going on for a very long time, so if your esteemed home exhibits this proposed counter-guarantee, it will be an effect this year and on our construction operation, on our company that deals with the construction and reconstruction of roads, as far as this season is concerned. So we won't have to wait until next season, waiting for this counterguarantee to be used properly. Given these conditions that are very favourable, I think this is fully in the interest of our country and will not burden either the Financial Plan of the Roads Directorate or the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This is how much to recapture the proposed amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act will allow for a serious taxation and fiscal control of natural persons to begin at the end of 2004, and for all to pay in economic terms, and for the low rates that exist in Serbia, and for the wider the tax base, we will be able to continue to reduce those rates. Also, sales tax, it is an advantage for freedom and for the independence of the printed media, for books, and also for the possibility of fully expanding the use of the financial lease and for our domestic producers to have enough time to cover our market with fiscal cash registers. Finally, this counterguarantee will allow 430km of roads to be restored this year and to a large extent next year. Therefore, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I urge you to vote on the proposed amendments and additions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32233	I thank Mr. Secretary. I ask, do the rapporteurs of the committees, the Finance Committee or the Legislative Committee want a word? No, they don't. ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to apply for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32234	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to begin by saying to all those who thought, there is a small number of them, that, Thursday, in 12 minutes, they will end up discussing these points, given that the united debate of these three points was only one incentive for the SPS parliamentary group to prepare itself for debate on these issues. I think that in such a consensual debate, when it comes to tax policy and budget, the most damaged minister, Mr Djelic, would be, given that in this House he can always get the right grades, findings and suggestions that he once made in time, and sometimes with a small delay he only appreciates, he will not admit that he was wrong. Since this is a united debate on these three points, two relate to tax policy and the third concerns the granting of counter-guarantee, I will only talk in this first part about amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act and the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Mr. Minister, I hope you'll agree with my assessment that you're the new finance and economy minister, and the tax policy you're leading is very much like that earlier. In early 2000, you proposed a tax reform largely based on tax reform implemented in the early 1990s, given that the previous Law and the previous laws governing this area were passed in 1992. Secondly, by an emergency procedure every six months, you change your tax policy and slowly give in through the tax exemption and tax relief, with sometimes you have to accept the motions of MPs and decisions of this assembly, when it is not in line with what you have suggested. You're even tightening the billing process as if the taxpayers' bonds are booming roses and they're not living beings who adapt to tax policy and tax obligations. You'll agree that the previous three findings and estimates are correct, and globally, I would point to two more mistakes you're making right now. Instead of encouraging certain areas of governance by means of tax policy before the beginning of the calendar year, you during the year tax policy which is one type of general policy and which depends on all conditions of adjustment in the coming years and periods, you, during the year, adapt tax policy to the back of specialis laws, this time of the Financial Liss Act, which we recently adopted, as if you did not know at the end of last year that such a law would be proposed and passed in this year. I may have missed you, but I'm asking you in good time - will the concession fee be released from the sales tax of services, as well as the financial lease services? If financial licking and concessions are with international loans, the driving force of Serbia's economic development, says the Minister of Business and Mr Pitic, which is why you keep making partial changes and adapting tax regulations to business activities and actions? Tax policy is run by some strong lobbys, mostly financially! We only remember how much trouble we had to release textbooks and teaching aids, and for example computers and computer equipment went smooth. The bread, the milk, the rest of your life's provisions, and yet you don't accept food for children and children, maybe it'll come at the end of the year. How many times have we proposed the release of taxes on daily and occasional press, so you seem to be waiting for an assessment of their writing on government, so I don't believe now that a press that is realistically or negatively writing about the work and results of the government will be exempt from the obligation to pay taxes on transport. I'd like to ask the minister this opportunity, is it true that this effect on the release of the press tax will be only 600,000 dinars, or is it a printing error? If it's a printing error, I think a policy like this and one such proposal should contribute at least to the part of discharging the press from these obligations. I also cannot agree to believe that the service tax will not pay for the financial lease services, for the purchase, for the lending of expensive and luxurious cars, and that the poor will pay the sales tax for a fixed part of the fee, now about 130 dinars for the non-sustainable electricity and fees for the reconstruction and refurbishment of the EPS facility. That fixed fee has so far been, somewhere, about 78-80 dinars, and these days it has been increased by 50 dinars and is being paid 20% of sales taxes. The SPS parliamentary group has proposed such amendments and I guarantee that by accepting them, by erasing the release of sales tax on the basis of the financial lease, and the release of household taxes for spent electricity, and will vote to amend and supplement this law. I believe that the EPS would make it more of a financial effect than an additional fee of 50 dinars per consumer. Do you know how much EPS has paid the sales tax to the budget for the electricity spent, which is not charged? Think carefully about this correct proposal, it will be favourable both for the budget and for the EPS and for the citizens of Serbia. If you do not believe you are sitting down and carefully reassess the effects; say that one of the MPs and one of the MPs was right and suggested the right system measure. What happens if the MPs put their finger on the head and vote for that amendment? Show good will to protect Serbian citizens more than others and not hold those Lazina "all these people will pay". Should I give you more evidence? Just one more example: when the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration were passed, we submitted an amendment to Article 69. The amendment was then rejected by reason of the non-acceptability to delete the time limit on the surplus charge for five days, as this would create the possibility of unlimited suspension of the surplus payment, which could negatively affect the orderly achievement of public revenues. Something has changed in your heads when you delete it after six months of the adoption of the Law, as was proposed by our amendment in Article 6(2) of the proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act. If it wasn't clear to you then, and we suggested that the taxpayers would receive funds after the end of the five-day period on their jury account, and at that point you still couldn't necessarily charge. One more thing, often extending the deadlines for implementing certain provisions is unserious and illustrates the speed of reforms. We'll talk about these scores later, but just to point out -- either you've unseriously proposed short deadlines or you're powerless to honor them. Remember the debate over the famous member of 190, or now 186. The bill, it is incomprehensible that someone owns over 350m euros in property and creates it, and does not respect the legal obligation to submit a tax application for the record of total property in the country and abroad for cross-assessment purposes. What kind of tax administration campaign is needed if so far, from the press I have seen, only 200 taxpayers have done so. Is it another missed campaign in this poor country, like a tax on extra profit on property. How many taxpayers have had to pay extra profit taxes over this figure, 700,000 German marks? Let's take previous reports from the Tax Administration, so if we know that the tax rate is a determined amount in the value of the property, isn't that a logical indicator of just the value of the construction facilities, not entering into the value of the other assets. We, as the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, cannot accept the expropriation of art items of great value from article 186 of this law. What kind of campaign should encourage the co-operation of taxpayers with the tax administration, if you introduce "parapolitan law" to the tax police, to force taxpayers. Is it a restriction of movement, and only the order above this change says that the tax police have all the powers, except for the restrictions on movement. It is also unnecessary to take the position of Article 3 135, because by introducing this measure, co-operation with the MUP is unnecessary, with which you have not yet arranged the means of co-operation. Thank you. In the second part, I'll talk about counterguarantee. One question -- how is it possible to reconstruct 430 km with 76m euros, if we know that a kilometer of highway costs about a million dollars, or euros?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32235	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the Socialist People's Party group, and then by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32236	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, when we talk about tax regulations, I must say that my point of view, when it comes to current application, or new adoption in Parliament, is the same. I have to realize that tax regulation reform is not done properly, that there are many shortcomings, that there are delays in application. I just want to talk about one detail, which is Article 186. Tax code and tax administration. To remind me, Article 186 envisioned, as of June 30th, that all property owners holding more than 20 million dinars should be made known, with a promise not to question where they came from. Of course, each of these taxpayers is obliged to show or have in the previous period proof of whether he had a tax balance at the end of the tax year, a final account, whether he paid taxes on the total income of citizens, whether the team submitted a tax application, etc., a series of evidence showing whether the property was valid, whether, under the existing regulations and laws of the Republic of Serbia, all tax obligations were paid in the previous period. This member is changing one at this point in time--is he moving the deadline by four months? I must say that tax administrations and tax authorities are not equipped to the extent necessary to accompany such an important situation as there is, I would say, a political character, because in many years back, from the 1980s to today, it is about enriching a number of citizens in Serbia, it would say, in an illegal way. There's only one segment of society here, some people who are present in public, who are known to be rich. I would say that there are a number of people who are not in public presence, who can be easily found to have acquired assets and capital in different ways over the past 20 years. Let me remind you: between the 1980s and the '90s, tax reform was concluded in 1992. By 1992, there was neither congratulations nor caution for the companies that were formed in 1988 or 1989. I would also talk about some other categories that existed during that period and are standard categories in the tax sense. These are: lawyers; owners of independent trade; entrepreneurs of various forms and owners of capital from that previous period, who took advantage of the time of the 1990s, the time in which we were sanctioned, where we had large inflation in 1993, not so often changes in the banking system. It has come to this day that we have a category of taxpayers who can be openly said to have huge capital. For me, this question is very important and significant for a few reasons. First, if we want to be a state in the legal sense, all taxpayers have to show where they got their property and capital. We don't have to look in the state sense for who did what, but it seems to me that there are a number of necessary documents from which the capital of a particular natural person, companies, can be clearly determined, and it seems to me that it is much more important to determine which amount of capital of those persons is located outside our country. Will those faces respond to the call of the state? I don't think so. The tax is in most parts of the coercion, rather than the will of the payer. It seems to me that, at this point, irresponsible statements by politicians, threats and blackmail have led to a very small number of such persons being reported, almost insignificant, and I would say that even a small number of persons were interested in how to report their property. I have the impression that this deadline will mean nothing if the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not bring a number of sublegal measures, powers for tax authorities through which they will be able to establish real indicators by certain types of control for a number of taxpayers. I also have the impression that there is one number of taxpayers who could easily prove to all state authorities that he has, by all standards, not ours, but European standards, in the right way, acquired property. This can also be shown from the tax balance, they can also show from the solutions they received at the end of each tax year from the total income tax of citizens, from the income tax and from any other tax type, because they regularly, every year, reported each type of income and can show that they have capital that is valid by all standards, not only ours, but also European, which shows that these people are rich, but in a fair way. It also seems to me because of the need to protect them, because in one country there are both rich and poor, the Government of the Republic of Serbia would have to draw up several documents from which it will clearly protect those categories of taxpayers who can easily prove how to acquire their capital - because they deal with production, work, and if they have dealt with certain types of services or trade, they can show how to acquire their capital. It seems to me that there is one significant group that needs to be treated in tax to some form and that it really does report all its assets. It's an old rule in the Western so-called. Democrats -- don't ask me for the first million, where I get everything else from, I'll show you. I don't think we can skip that first million. We have to ask taxpayers where they got the first million, since we haven't reached the stage of society's development, where, for example, we don't have more than 20 or 50 extremely wealthy people in medium-developed cities, viewed territorially for that environment. So, we don't have 500 or 1,000 people living in a certain municipality, we already have 20 to 50, maybe up to 100 people, so it seems to me, precisely because the state is in a very complex situation in the economic sense, in economic terms, that it's "social" and it's in the first place, I'd say, the treatment of the largest number of citizens of our country, and for all these reasons, there would have to be a certain modulus for these taxpayers to show how to acquire their capital. I don't plead here that we're going to investigate the origin of the property and we're dealing with these things, but I would say something else, so once we can get the state to the point where there's going to be a liability. I claim, a large number of taxpayers who had a programme 10, 12, 15 years ago and engaged in certain types of production or services, paid taxes for years in each item and each form, have the right not to be treated in the way our public treats them. For these very reasons, I have the impression that several regulations would have to be passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and where capital types would be classified and conditions were created that tax authorities could work in one decent way, I would say a soft tax option, so that that form would be established and all taxpayers would be treated in this way. As far as sales taxes are concerned, and now...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32237	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32238	Just a few more minutes. As for this treatment, we really don't mind, but earlier we...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32239	It can't be another few minutes. If you want the next 10 minutes or we'll leave for the next call.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32240	I'm moving on. I can see that fellow MPs are not interested in this subject, and the taxes are certainly not, but they are important. Milka, there are a lot of important taxes for you, believe me, your hall wasn't built in Užička, you need money. I think there are more important issues when it comes to sales taxes. It deserves release, I would say, child clothes, school supplies and all other lessons that can help develop the population in Serbia, because the poor household today has a lot of problems that it can normally cultivate and develop a family, to increase the number of family members. It seems to me that this is a more significant issue than the fact that some have voted, some media are in a difficult economic situation. They may be in an economically difficult situation because of the issues they are dealing with. Maybe the people don't want to buy newspapers anymore because they all write the same thing in every newspaper. They may not give treatment to ordinary citizens, who are more important than some important politicians or business topics, socialities, sports, culture or anything else, so there has been a public decline. Perhaps these are the questions that need to be discussed in another way. If someone was in favour of the market economy, then it is shown that they are not good at the competition. That's why I don't think this question has much importance, at least for us, it doesn't have this much importance, because other issues are both more important and more important to talk about. I only mentioned one thing. For these reasons, we will not support the law on sales of citizens, nor the tax procedure law and the tax administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32241	The word is from MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32242	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my performance, I will speak more about the third law, because it is part of which is very interesting and painful South Serbia, although I can say that a little unnaturally combined debate on two tax laws with the law on the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, as a guarantee to the European Bank, etc. for the restoration of the roads. This third one is interesting for all of us, and I think MPs should think of it especially because it is money that must surely be accepted, but it is a much bigger problem in the second part of how to spend it. To rebuild the roads, just for a multimodal corridor of ten, with joined arms, we need two billion dollars. This 76 million loan represents and unfortunately, it can be a spark around which we will drown, because it is not enough for anyone, 430km of roads, and as counterpart Mucic said, it will probably not be made out of this kind of credit, because it is much more expensive, especially counting the route to which it should pass. The new Serbia, or parliamentary group, will accept, normally, this law, as well as all the laws providing for the inflow of funds; and such an inflow of funds and investment in the travel network is a special form of public works, which can provide us with the help of our economy. This, above all, applies to southern Serbia, because southern Serbia, to remind you, should pass through it exactly the infrastructure arm, i.e. the southern part of the corridor ten from Nis to the Macedonian border, which through Macedonia should connect us with northern Greece. It is an extremely important route, it is a vein of the Balkan housewives, which has been for years, and not to say for decades, neglected. You guys have a 50-mile walk-through-the-mill walk-through-the-mill As a result, statistics show a small frequency; normally, south of Serbia suffers because there is no transit tourism, Macedonia suffers, and in particular Greece, which has an exceptional reduction in tourism traffic. Thanks to the second arm and the 10th arm, part of the tourism is draining away, i.e. tourism traffic towards Bulgaria and the Black Sea, and more pronounced lately. I say, the money hasn't come yet, and it's already started with manipulation, which is not surprising, when the amount of funds needed is known, as well as the volume available. We, in southern Serbia, and that is why, frankly, in all municipalities, we are all on our feet, and we are concerned by the statement of Mr. Director of the Republic Road Directorate, which already sets priorities. In those priorities, I welcome the Ibar Highway. We know what the frequency is, we know how many car accidents were due to poor quality. I wish a complete road network could be restored to Republika Srpska, so that we can establish better communication with our overseas part of the people. Normally, the northern leg from Belgrade to Saturday is such that whoever passes it knows that it is also a priority. But it certainly is not a priority higher than the southern leg of the corridor, where the side arm is "coordinate 10a", which is the link between Nis, Piroth, Dimitrovgrad and Sofia. Just because of the problem that has southern Serbia, that I don't list you there, the industry has completely stopped. South of Nis, only those who are on the budget receive salaries, and only a few employees in businesses. And that's why it's no wonder, which is the lack of mood for the new government, which is also evident in the vote in the previous presidential elections. You know, south of Nis, who won the election. The situation will be even worse, thanks to the tax rates we adopted in the reconciliation, i.e. harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's relations; because the economic structure in southern Serbia, these are all large enterprises and combinations that are making the re-promatter that we have now taken down the tax rates, all production will stop. This is the only chance to trigger the building potential we have -- they're huge. To create infrastructure around the southern arms of Corridor 10, which can employ new people and be an incentive for the future development of the region, which is borderline, critical, and should be a strategic area of the Serbian government. Because all the cities from Nis to Thessaloniki have terrible problems, because we have been promised for years: three years ago we were told - here next spring, almost, you get it. It hasn't started yet. You know it's been said that by the 2004 Olympics in Greece, the southern leg of the corridor must be finished. He's not even touched! What does that mean? That he was removed from his priority. If we analyze the causes of the download, we can even add political connotation, or note, to all of it. On June 12th in Thessaloniki, there was a big meeting, so-called "initiative networks of open roads in the Balkans", where representatives of all cities from southern Serbia, Macedonia and Greece attended, followed by "the southern arms" of corridor 10. They've brought one resolution (I don't have time to read it to you), there's going to be a fierce action where a whole big convoy will go from Thessaloniki all the way to Munich to show it's a completely safe part of the way, because that's one of the reasons why they're saying to avoid this part of the way. And unfortunately or fortunately, we have something in common that seems to put us in the motherland's relationship to southern Serbia, as well as the Greek states to the north. And what's that in northern Greece? Local self-government and opposition central government, and you know it's the same from Nis to Presevo. Does this mean that because of the poor situation in which the south of Serbia is, and that he voted because of how he voted, because he is dissatisfied, he should now be punished by further economic downturn, and by no means of movement?- I'm sorry. The counterproductive will be an effect. They'll vote even worse in the next round. For this reason, I ask (I will not use these other 10 minutes) that we can imagine once again in determining the priority directions and give the possibility that this south of Serbia, or that Kosovo will not reach Nis, but to strategically protect him and at least give him the opportunity to live on a spoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32243	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32244	Dear fellow MPs, my predecessors have been insolent over the united debate of these three laws. And if we could unite the debate by two tax laws, it is entirely unnatural for the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro to be set up by these laws. The only common thread with these two laws is that the government's representative is the same. If that's more rational and economical, then let's also accept that reason for a united debate and comment on that law. I'd take it from him and start my own debate. Because the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is under the loan of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro's Road Directorate, a bill that firstly determines that the Republic of Serbia is a counterguarantee for Serbia-Montenegro and that it assumes the obligation to settle the debt of the Republic's Road Directorate towards the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The loan is 76m euros and has been set up to finance a road reconstruction project in the Republic of Serbia. For the implementation of this law, we were told by the government that there was a need to provide the necessary financial resources in the budget, but they did not tell us how much or how. I am also looking for an extremely urgent procedure, because it is obvious that the tenders for the implementation of these projects are already collected and that it is necessary to decide as soon as possible what these loans will be used for and who will perform these works. I only hope, although the minister is not here to confirm this to us, that these works, as part of the law we had already in the procedure and in this new session, will be declared public works and that in this way many who are on the unemployment records will be able to find a job and will have additional flowers from this loan. We've already had on two occasions, it seems to me, a proposal of these laws, where we were in a position to give counter-guarantee to the loan received by the Republic Road Directorate. This is obviously about a favourable loan, which has a 14-year maturity; it will be paid off from 17 November 2006, with interest, as I understand it, starting to pay off immediately, and that is my objection to the Government that in reason never tells us exactly how much this fixed interest is, and when it starts paying interest on these loans! We just can't reject this bill. If the Government considers this to be the only way to obtain credit, and apparently it is, there are agreements already concluded with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the only question is how will these money be spent and on which routes will be spent, who will get these jobs? We hope not as it has been so far, someone like Chummet, but large construction companies that have a large number of unemployed and cry out for work. If this is the case, then some of the loans we can have, because it kind of promotes this branch of the construction business; a large number of people are employed and earning a salary, which means additional money in the tax and contribution budget. I guess one day we'll have a government report on that, too, and we'll know that. And we'll find out, probably from the press, who gets what jobs, who works the roads, whose equipment he works with?- I'm sorry. This has largely been a fertile ground for a variety of malversions but we hope that they have been taught an example from the close past of people from the government gave up to such a way of working and that this will start with some legal flows, that our construction companies, which have both the operation and the professional staff, get, of course, in the tender of these jobs and that all benefit from it. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, we adopted the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act at the end of 2002, by which it began to apply on 1 January 2003 and we had two amendments and additions to this law on two occasions. The reason for this change, in addition to some technical improvements in the text itself, is that in the meantime we have passed the Law on Publishing Rights on mobile things entered in the register and it has proved necessary for the stock to be regulated in some way by this law. It is also proposed to extend the deadline for applying for the registration of property and regulate the powers of the tax administration in the procedure following the submissions, in the function of increasing fiscal discipline and efficiency of the work of the tax administration, and to propose to extend the authority of the tax inspector in the course of tax control, as well as the tax police in the pre-criminal procedure. That's what we can't agree on and what we've tried to correct with the amendments, because we've come into a situation, with a government proposal like this, that we always have some special force of police, or parapolitan forces. It goes so far as to no longer know what anyone is doing, and besides, we're creating tax and financial police, which is too much and should be given up, given that this country needs to be clearly identified as what it is doing and what powers it is -- that we don't give IT's authority to the tax police or tax inspector. It is an additional press and affects the uncertainty of the taxpayers and it is also harder to exercise control, i.e. it creates more suitable soils for those negative phenomena that are born in those who have very, very broad powers, as is the case here. What's the paper here? In Article 7, the officials and all other persons who participate in the tax procedure are obliged to, as an official secret, kept, before it was a PIB, this identification number, and now it's not an official secret. It's an improvement in the text we can't even criticize. The text in Article 26 has also been corrected where the unique tax number is qualified as a unique and unique number of natural persons, entrepreneurs and legal persons of all public incomes and is maintained until the taxpayer's status has ceased, which is only logical. There was one amendment -- when we discussed this amendment, when it was adopted, and apparently the government now realized that we were right and that it was necessary to regulate that tax single number in this way. However, a newspaper that says that if a taxpayer does not report any later changes in the tax administration by taking the tax payer away from the tax payer, in our opinion, is not a good solution, because without that tax number he cannot work. There is practically a halt in his business, and this has adverse consequences not only on the taxpayer but also on the state itself that needs to achieve additional revenues based on its activity. Article 67 regulates how taxes are paid. It gave up forced labor. If you remember, we criticised that the tax could be paid in work, materials or services, in accordance with the tax law and in it "designed regulations". We have qualified this as forced labour in some way, and it has now given up, but it has given up the tax "by selling things to the competent state authority, in ways and under conditions that, under the tax law, the Government has prescribed on a proposal from the Minister. "I have the impression that this is about housing and that the government has solved the housing problems of all members of the government and employees of the ministry, so now it does not want to compensate for the tax obligations of certain taxpayers. We think it's wrong, that tax bonds should be allowed this way which is actually a sort of compensation, and compensation is kept as a way of paying taxes, to be kept, because that way no one loses and everyone gets. The government always needs to solve housing problems, not just members of the government, but above all, I think about the MUP, the police: I think there are only about 20,000 requirements for employees in the MUP who have shown the need to solve the housing problem, so if certain companies have the opportunity to compensate for their obligation to pay public incomes, they should also be allowed to do so. In addition, what we least like and what we most criticise and try to correct our amendments, and you will see that in the debate in particular, is a way of forced collection. Because now the Government here proposes that, if the debtor fails to make the payment, by maturity, the Tax Administration makes a forced payment from the taxpayer's debt account, in accordance with Article 95 of this law." This is also due to monetary and non-financial claims, and we believe that tax police and financial police cannot have such broad powers as to the possibility of temporary confiscation of funds for automatic data processing; let's say, if this leads to the taxpayer and it is unacceptable that in detecting tax and criminal offences and their perpetrators give the tax police the authority to bring in and bring in the alleged suspect for a crime in this area. In addition to the fact that we believe that criminal acts should not be regulated by this law, but only by one criminal law, it is unacceptable indeed, what is only in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior and which must remain only in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior, and as regards the deprivement of liberty and the coercion of the suspect, that it is now in the jurisdiction of the tax police. That means the IRS has to be armed. She has no obligation to do this in co-operation with the MUP. It is something that is absolutely not acceptable from the point of view of our legal system, although perhaps Mr. Djelic is doing so perhaps more rationally, more effectively. He's only interested in getting public incomes, but we need to stick to some rules and know who's in charge of what in this country. It is interesting that Article 186 in which it was intervened -- "the taxpayer, the natural person and the entrepreneur are obliged to do so within a period", now "of ten months", and earlier it was six months, "from the date of the application of this law submitted to the Tax Administration for the record of the total property". Remember, it was a newspaper, if that property was worth 20 million dinars. Here we have an extension of the deadline and retroactiveness in this article, because I am looking for, by amendment of the Doss-Reform of Serbia, that this member is being applied from 1 July of this year, and here we do not have in the bill that it is necessary to establish a general interest in such a thing, and this time I warn of that fact, because I think we have time to bring it into line with the law and that we are not doing it in the right way, although it often happens to us. Now, with regard to the assets that are subject to this obligation to apply, which makes up these 20 million dinars, there remain these immovableities: actions, equipment to perform an independent activity, but the art items that often have a huge value are deleted. I don't know under the pressure of who's doing this, and I don't see any reason the government has given in favor of whether it's under the pressure of Mr. Carlos who has these artistic objects of enormous value, probably numismatic value, but we wouldn't have to succumb to certain lobbys and interests of people who are close to the authorities. In Article 188, it is necessary to obtain proof that it is not good to provide for an institute before it is regulated by law. We've already had this law, if you remember -- provided for the right to move things, it's obviously not regulated in the way that it's good, that way it's inconsistencies with the Law on Hostage Rights on Moving Things, which we later got. When we discussed this law back then, we said it was impossible to regulate something, norm before a special law was passed and a certain institute introduced into our legislation. Over that time, however, the need for the whole member who regulated the publishing right to be redecorated, i.e. that the full change was made in that direction. So much for tax law and tax administration. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act - again the need for this law to be changed because of the Financial Lising Act that we later received and here are some exceptions to the Financial Lising Act, and as regards motor vehicles and water objects subject to annual registration; there is a taxpayer, a leaser, and I know that there have been pressures on the Government to pay the tax only after the full payment of the fee, a licking fee, or if you bought a car on a lease in a period of four years, it is paid, that the tax is paid, only after that four years, and the government is obviously not quite subject to that pressure, although some financial lobbys have already entered into this business and counted on that option. That would, of course, be significant for that last buyer on whom all the obligation to pay taxes and... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) Here, you see that 20 minutes is really little to take.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32246	Well, take a closer look, what's the minute, read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32247	No, no, 21 minutes, anyway, I couldn't touch myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32248	Anyway, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32249	.. This law completely, but since we have submitted amendments to this law, in the debate in particular, we will have the opportunity to make all our remarks. It's incorrect to really combine the discussion of three laws in 20 minutes and as much as I tried to be brief and concise, I failed to touch this one law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32250	The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32251	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the motive for bringing these three laws together is essentially the same nature of this issue, therefore, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, amendments to the Transport Tax Act and the Counter-guarantee Act. These are essentially the laws of fiscal and macroeconomic nature and this was one of the key reasons why the debate on these drafts of the law was merged. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the amendment of the Transport Tax Act, are passed by several newspapers, several alignments and precisions with the laws adopted in the meantime, in particular with the Financial Lising Act, and bring a more even tax burden for different social categories of the population. They bring some tax exemptions to products, which we have always advocated, i.e. declaratively, that they cannot be treated as goods and as all other goods, but that was the case with books and daily presses; I think it is extremely good that this bill foresees that the tax on publications, and above all this is important because of the professional literature and the tax on the daily press, and that it is important because of the increased dependence of the media and because of the possibility of the market, i.e. that the quality in that area is due to the lower burden comes to expression. Therefore, the Law amending the Tax Act is important as long as it specifies some of the moments relating to the security of the request of the State as a trustee, i.e. if there is a right to move matters entered in the register that we have established one of the laws that was in the course of a regular session, so it is exactly provided in which way it is possible to enforce security or that it is not necessary to take away a moving thing, as much as the purpose of this institute is to make incomes available through the retention of these things and to pay out obligations through the use of security funds, i.e. that obligation which the debtor has to the trustee. Similarly, with unrecorded immovableities, perhaps even most of the immovableity in the Republic of Serbia is not registered, it was not in the land-book regime, amendments, or the adoption of a cadaster law and the diameter of the immovableity is not a dramatically improved situation, because in this sense, in many areas we have a system of deed and we do not have sufficient security of claims, or there are no mechanisms that could achieve this security. This law provides, among other things, for the seizure of such immovableities in which the law cannot be entered into and the security of the claim cannot be achieved or the security of the state's claim based on tax burden. The extension of the time limit for the record of immovableity, i.e. the registration of assets exceeding 20 million dinars, provides more equal tax burdens, leaves more time for those citizens who are the richest, who have the highest payment power to report their assets, regardless of whether they are immovable, property rights, actions, movable things, and thus, on the basis of that provision, they carry out checks on the basis of such a provision that they have made a declaration in respect of the reporting of property, i.e. the reporting of income corresponds to the real state of things and the truth. In this way, conditions are created for this tax burden to be more even and for those citizens whose pay capacity is higher, or whose property is higher. So it's about the process. This is certainly not the identification of the origin of the property, but it is also quite certainly fairer than if we ignore that income difference, and defines a mechanism that will allow not for everyone, but for a good part of our citizens who have a great payload of power or great property but do not report all their incomes, to be subject to more severe financial discipline. In the case of amendments to the Transport Tax Act, it is unusually important that books, magazines, printed media, printed publications are exempt from sales tax, it is also good from the principle point of view, the identification of taxes for books or the identification of taxes for daily press, as if it were other goods, it is certainly not principled. It is unusually important that publications, especially daily presses, be as little fiscally burdened as possible and thus contribute to such a process in this way as much fiscal independence as possible. So far, we have had the situation that the Commissions, at the level of the Government, or at the level of the Ministry, have defined which publications of the scientific, professional or artistic character were not paid tax, which had several consequences behind them which were not positive. So, firstly, excessive administration in that area, the concentration of administration in an area where it should not exist; further, the possibility of arbitration in the extreme line in making such decisions, because when decisions are individual and are made in an area where thousands of publications are printed every week or every month in Serbia, inevitably withdraws either the inability to study enough when defining tax exemptions, or, even, the possibility of arbitration which in such a mass of publications does not have to be intended. In this sense, this process allows those items of scientific and artistic character to be freed, freed from taxes and allows the book market and the press of publications to be cheaper, which will certainly increase the general cultural level, or hopefully, the cultural level of our population. Furthermore, this law adjusts the definition of payment of sales taxes in line with the financial lease institution, which we also introduced at one of the last sessions of the regular session. Financial licking in its nature, in itself, allows, without a large investment or without any investment in money, to come into possession of modern machines, modern equipment, to make profits through the use of these modern machines or modern equipment, to pay compensation based on this process. But the fact that it is an institution that is extremely favourable and makes it possible to attract without a large investment, speaks in favour of the fact that it would be unconventional that this area is not covered by the sales tax, i.e. that this area remains untaxed - by the nature of things it cannot have an unfettered relationship in relation to property already in property and it would not be natural if it were so. The counter-guarantee law is a law relating to the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to be a counterguarantee in a guarantee defined for the construction of roads in the Republic of Serbia, and these amounts are significant, therefore, at 76m euros, under extremely favourable circumstances for the construction of roads and for the construction of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. We know that the development of the economy, or one of the preconditions for the development of the economy, is quite certain and the development of infrastructure, and in that sense we can say that there is no dilemma about this law whether it should be supported or not. Therefore, all these three laws are not large, but each of them brings a certain qualitative improvement in our legislation; given the precision of tax policy instruments, and given the release of some extremely important archivals from paying taxes, but certainly because it enables infrastructure to develop, i.e. making tax burdens more and more fair in relation to the level of social development of certain structures of our population. In this sense, the DOS parliamentary club – Serbia's Reform – will support these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32252	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, also spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32253	In this debate, we have joined three laws that are not similar to the content, even this third law is far from being able to be included in a joint debate with the first two, when the parliamentary majority has already voted. The first law is the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, we have changes that are mostly technical. The reform of our tax administration is under way, and it is certainly a very important process. The Democratic Party of Serbia has supported the process on several occasions also with its support of the law, the original Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act itself, has made it clear that we are in favour of reforming our tax system. These are key reforms in the fiscal area. However, we now have some technical adjustments. At the beginning, it was not possible to take care of everything and these technical changes were necessary. What is the essence of these changes, which comes out of the area of technical adjustment itself, is the possibility of delaying the reporting of property to taxpayers based on property tax. It's something that's just accepting the existing state. Surely, tax administration legislators when they proposed the law at the end of last year did not think it would come to what had happened. However, the situation is changing, both politically and economically, and certain pressures have led to the fact that at least the DOS parliamentary group, if not Minister Djelic, accepts what has been given by law, which is the delay of the tax on the property of our wealthy citizens. What the DSS also believes in this law is not acceptable is Article 16 that amends Article 135. A law that enters the tax police's authority, which gives it additional authority to be able to force the taxpayer to bring in, practically, that's where he clashes with the insides and the classic public security, which is certainly not good, and my colleague George Mamula will certainly talk about it. It's a legally unsustainable situation. These other technical things, related to the law itself, the Democratic Party of Serbia supports and we will vote for these amendments and amendments to the law, but we do not think too well of them. These are technical adjustments and a reflection of more current necessity, the current economic situation, than some solutions that contain a vision in the tax administration's development system. As for the law on amendments and additions to the Transport Tax Act, in the original Law, that's what Minister Djelic said - we have three major changes. That's where he was wrong. The law has two major changes, namely one technical and one fundamental change. The technical amendment is related to the adaptation of the Transport Tax Act to the Financial Lising Act and that is what is acceptable for the DSS. These are technical changes that have been well done, in our opinion. There's nothing to argue about. The Financial Lising Act has not yet begun to live, so this is just the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Transport Tax Act on Financial Lysing, not too late. As for sales taxes on books, magazines, publications, this was something that was in previous amendments and additions to the Transport Tax Act, and there were several. There were also words of the opposition parties, above all the DSS insisted that the issue be settled by releasing books, publications and magazines from sales taxes. That's the case in most other countries. However, there is no category of sales tax there, but the other types of tax that exist there take into account the specificity of that branch - publishing. That's good, though it's too late. What is most strange in this law, that is not the subject of the law, is the DOS amendment, signed by Mr Pajtic, it is the treatment of fiscal tills. The fiscal registers defined in the amendments to the Transport Tax Act are not subject to these amendments and additions, so it is very strange that this issue can be treated in amendment. So, something not treated by law itself, at least so far, has been such a practice, can't even be treated amendmentically, or can't be added to a new member who treats another member of the original law. We don't have the opinion of the Legislative Committee, but this should take a unique position. What is much more important than this legal exception offered to us today is the very essence given by the promoter Bojan Pajtic, or DOS - Reforme, which Minister Djelic pointed out as the third major amendment to the Law on Changes and Supplements of the Transport Tax Act, which is the very act of delaying the introduction of fiscal tills for May next year. The reason is that it comes out to meet domestic fiscal register producers, future fiscal cash register producers, above all, EL "Nish". I don't think that's the case this time. If you remember, many parliamentary groups, as well as the DSS themselves, had certain reserves on the introduction of fiscal tills and on whether the domestic industry is capable of making these fiscal tills. What's more important about that -- is at this point, in the economic situation that it was about six months ago, that fiscal registers are at all needed, or when these fiscal tills need to be introduced? I think the essence of this amendment is that at the moment when the recession reached its peak, when not only in the social sector that is leaving, the state sector, but also in the private sector, there is not enough trade, nor traffic has increased, or it has decreased, industrial production has decreased. It is an acceptance of the existing situation so that the fiscal cash registers would be another additional burden, above all, to economic operators and would certainly cause indignation in the existing situation. The government, or DOS, is probably pragmatic about this issue, and the fiscal tills are delayed for May next year. What is interesting, too, is that this delayed reform will be an important thing for the functioning of retail trade, how something that has been announced, which has been announced for many years, has already been announced by the Socialists, especially since the DOS has ever taken power, and this is the introduction of a tax on additional value. We all remember that Minister Djelic announced that the value added tax would be introduced from the beginning of 2004. It's something we have to do. We are the last country in Europe to introduce it. Bosnia and Herzegovina will also bring it before us, I think, somewhere in August or September. How are we going to go further into these reforms if our tax administration and, above all, taxpayers are not informative and are not sufficiently educated at the very application of the tax on additional value? I'm afraid we're going towards the current situation in the economy leading us to come up with an additional tax deposit, but the minister will probably answer that. Otherwise, all three parts of the law are acceptable. So these two parts and this delay with the application of fiscal registers are something more, not the expression of vision, but the expression of adapting to the existing situation -- as such, the DSS is acceptable. We think it's good for our economy at this point. These other things are purely technical adaptations, so we will also vote the Law on amendments and additions to the Transport Tax Act. Unlike these two, the third counter-guarantee law, we find it at least problematic, since it regulates one issue of borrowing that is generally problematic in our country. We talked about this question a lot, because we are slowly entering a debt crisis. This is another extra load. As for the area for which this borrowing is intended, enough has been said about the abuses in the area. That's what my colleague Cvetkovic is going to talk about. These are the two reasons that led us to be against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32254	Do any of the other bosses or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. We move on to a debate in principle. We would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written application, with a number of MPs, delivered parliamentary groups. Both by application and by order in a joint principled search of tax laws, the first speaker is MP Pal Shandor, and let the MP Slavoljub Matic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32255	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, I have come to you for a single sentence. You said that as a single word, and I think from this assembly phone booth you have to draw a little more attention. I think a whole set of tax laws, including some other laws that follow us, say, political organisation and everything else, will not be able to be done properly and the citizens of Serbia will not believe all this until a data protection law is passed. Every serious state has such a law. So anyone in any administration, any tax officer, can't look at what property you have, how you have, which is a cadastrian number, which is a parcel, which is a surface, etc.- I'm sorry. No one serious, I mean, without that law, in fact, without the possibility of legal protection, will report the property and it won't work properly. Therefore, I think it was necessary to reverse the whole problem - to pass a data protection law: personal data, business data, property and all that, that we as citizens should be protected. I'm afraid that, as we've had so far, the case of political organizations, etc., every government will be watching who signed for which side, who's close to whom, what who's who? We know during Milosevic, when the village votes, someone against it, then they don't get oil when it was an oil crisis! I'm not saying that today's government in Serbia will do so, but citizens are untrustworthy and think it always works that way, that whoever is in power prefers his own, and when they are in opposition, they are punished. So we need to create some legal basis that will protect that kind of data in a way that protects it in Europe. When we come into a situation where we have legal data protection guarantees, as it is done in Europe, then we can make our citizens report everything they have and pay taxes and be, let's say, Eurocompatible. Until we do, I think everything is illusory. We can also pass this law, we can say that they are 200 and I don't know how much they've filed for the property. You remember at the Extraprofit Act, I said, about the property that's being reported, and we had this regulation or the law about reporting property to political officials! There I suggested several amendments, to whom it is reported and who may have insight into those data. It's a sudden retreat. That now, for example, is gone, and it was two years ago, there's no such thing now. So, as long as we don't get into a situation to protect in a legal way everything a citizen accepts as his statement and that anyone can't give him a bump, that anyone can't see him who has income, that he can't see his private property. The second is the public sphere and the work of businesses, etc., but here as long as we don't ensure in the right way, I don't think our tax system is going to work. Just so you know, I'd like to ask you, and I'd suggest from this place, that you run into the government, if at all possible, to bring in this setsacon regarding the legal security of citizens in this sphere that is related to their property. When we do, then we will be able to go and ask them to be politically responsible and to be loyal to the state. The state, first of all, must show loyalty to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32256	Thank you. The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic, let the MP Velimir Simonovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32257	Anyway, whatever it is, it should always be dignified, thank God. I will make sure that, in the presence of the Minister, I say something that is important for these laws. I will repeat once again what the deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group said, that we will support these two tax laws, because we believe that they in some way make the laws that have been passed over the last year work more effectively on our lives. It's especially the bitanemand that regulates, i.e. releases the printed media of the sales tax. However, I cannot politically comment on it: at a time when the Republic Government obviously has a number of problems with written media that are going out with what they are already going out, this is a kind of a courtship to allow written media to be in it, to say, full contact with the Republic government, but this is an attempt, of course, to make this contact positively anonymous, at least when written in the media. I hope that this will not significantly affect the critical attitude of the media towards all authorities, including the Republic government, which is the proposer of this amendment. I hope, of course, that these "print freedoms" in Serbia are coming, and of course, the electronic media, there have already been many stories here, so it will be unnecessary to talk about the influence of the republican authorities, and especially at a time when we have not allocated frequencies to electronic media, on this impact, simply, there is no reason to talk right now. But let's get back to the subject. As for the savings, i.e. The budget, Minister Djelic says that somewhere around 600 million dinars, in fact, the Republic budget is forgiven in this way. It's not much of a sum, but it seems to me, not just to me, to be a lot of press. As for the promotions in the financial lease section, we have not yet felt the benefits of the financial lease and the law that we passed months ago, a month and a half ago in this home, but let's say that under the tax law and that part will improve our lives. What is important and what suddenly appears to us in the light of the amendments made by the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Bojan Pajtic, is something that the Finance Committee itself has accepted, and I mean the deadline for the introduction of fiscal registers. I asked, as a member of the Committee, Minister Djelic, how long will we postpone? We have been delayed for a year, and then, here, another five months, and after Djelic accepted the amendment of the DOS parliamentary group. The minister answered me, maybe it's here and between us, that some states have been introducing fiscal cash registers for, like, eight years. That's the problem, we all know who we're dealing with in some private business, is the problem to separate serious money from the fiscal register, is the problem as a state to organize fiscal cash registers, but I don't think that delay is leading to anything, and I have an impression, alive or seen. We'll back that up for five months. You'll see, sometime in May 2004, as it is, the Republic Government will again find some reason for it to be delayed for the beginning of 2005. - well, then until this Serbia gets one power that promises to carry out the work, we will hardly have an armed, clearly legally-armed date of introduction and fiscal cash registers without mentioning anything else. As for the Polish procedure and the tax administration, I must say first, no matter what I think I know about the business life and the work of the financial authorities of control, we haven't seen what the tax police are doing since the new year. Can someone here tell me how she organized herself, whether it's consistent with what we heard at the end of last year, what happens to the authorities of the tax police, where she's being set up, how she works. That's the first and most basic problem. It's all coming out of it. First, indiscipline. You say yourself that only 200, most likely extraprofessors, for which we now worry ministers, will sleep, we fear that those who haven't registered their taxes or their property will sleep for years. All right, let's make it about the progress of this society and this country, but I'm wondering again about Bojan Pajtic's amendment, which also delays the application of this law, i.e. I wonder if it'll be a quiet dream and I wonder why these people haven't reported that property yet and if you think by delaying the deadline, they'll even report that property!- I'm sorry. I don't think so. I think that property has been reported over other faces long ago, and of course it is owned by those who are illegal or by a sign of question, but how, acquired it! I think that our story about extraprofits and these extra-rich guys, I think it's going into that one, exclusively political story, and about how to finance political parties. Without that law, Minister, there is no reform in Serbia. Without that law, there is no beginning of the moral rebirth of our Serbia. It seems to me that the first law here, in this home, should be that law, then all the other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32258	Thank you. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, let the MP Slobodan Tomovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32259	Ladies and gentlemen, Telecom Serbia has refined and is sending us phone bills on fine paper, very detailed everything explained, and I'm very surprised, I didn't know, somehow it missed my attention, that we're paying taxes on phone bills. So our mail instead of offering you various opportunities and stimulating you to use the phone more and more, we've introduced a tax on phone accounts. So don't make a phone call, 'cause you'll pay taxes on it. I know, in developed countries, they offer you various opportunities to use your phone as much as possible. Before there were no cell phones, in America you were offered in every room of the machine, both in the bathroom and in the kitchen. Then the post office gives you some sort of bonus, so my former student who lives in America thus earned a plane ticket from America to Belgrade. The savings he gives him. Another question, which I wanted to draw attention to personally to Mr. Djelic, which is, he gave me one of the craftsmen in Belgrade a hairdressing salon, where I use his services, the brochure, which contains a newspaper when paying public revenues. That's amazing. To make you laugh a little bit today, I'll read you a paragraph on how to calculate the control number by module 22. "The control number consists of one digit and is calculated by establishing the total number of numeric digits, consisting of the second row in a sequence-calling number, which refers to the obligor's password. (The first string of three digits refers to the Community code). So the numbered data is multiplied by the first digit of the sequence, and the next digit is multiplied by the total number of numeric digits, reduced by one and so on, where the last product is the last product, the last digits in sequence with the number seven. These products are summed up and divided by 11. The whole remainder obtained by this operation is subtracted from number 11 and that result is a control number." But that number per module 22 is always a two-digit number, and you can't say why you're taking the second digit, not the first number. It's not explained here. Mr. Djelic, I still see, on the next page, 24 of the most frequently used public revenue bills. So there's more. You need to find an expert to simplify your tax system. The simpler the system, the more effective it is. Let me tell you how he paid the father of this craftsman's tax in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. He had a tax card, since he already got it in January, not like us in July, a tax solution for that year, went to the IRS, bought stamps, and stuck a stamp in the IRS every month and finished the job. This craftsman asked me to help him determine his control number. I'm asking how to determine the control number of the one who finished primary school, and maybe a long time ago. Why can't he pay taxes as it used to be. You say it's not modern, it's not modern, etc., but I'm telling you, simplify this, it'll be much more efficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32260	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic, to prepare MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32261	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll tell you first one true event from the time of that unique Yugoslavia, in which we were around 20 million, and the publication of the debt data, that that 20 million owed somewhere around 21 billion dollars. One forest host, with all the spoon and purse, comes to the People's Bank and says, "Who's in charge here, I'm here to settle down? "They discuss who's in charge, and what to settle, and he says, "Listen, my house is a house of housekeeping, we have a face and honor, I want to know how much we owe, that I pay you, that when you ask who's due, you don't mention my house, that you give me a receipt, and in the future when you want to be in charge of asking me!" What's the analogy? The analogy is that we're in debt again, which we don't ask ourselves when borrowing, and we're asking ourselves to adopt something that's supposed to be counter-guarantee. In fact, it is very clear here that the loan agreement was concluded on July 31st 2002. Almost a year ago, for a project to rebuild the roads of the Republic of Serbia. Just that and nothing else. So, of course, it provokes a lot of questions. Why? Because we're not familiar with the content of the agreement. We don't even know what's in the agreement, we don't know if we needed to be in charge, we don't know what we're in charge of. It's understood in some economy, in some real world that before a man's in charge, an investment study is made. To say what will be the subject of investment within the framework of the investment study. Very taxing: how long these works will take, what will be the scope of these works, how many people will be employed, what are the effects of that, and finally, what is the financial structure of funding. What we have, what we need, where, how and from whom to borrow. We don't know that. We haven't even seen the agreement, and we're asked to give counterguarantee. Now, since we don't know what the agreement says, I ask if the money that will be provided in this way will be spent in part to service what has already been spent on roads, what has already been paid to businessmen, or it will be money that will be spent on something new. Of course, the following question is also raised: why with this particular bank agreement, because she was the only one who wanted to give us, and is she the most favourable? If it is the most advantageous, what makes it the most advantageous? Of course, the public has been told in recent months that the National Bank is part of the funds that are being deposited, from banks that collect foreign exchanges, weapons at a foreign exchange bank in London. Hence my question, very professionally. If that's true, why is it that this bank where our foreign exchanges stand was not guaranteed, because it's a custom in the business world, but now we have to report as guarantors? If that's also true and if it has effects, then why did the National Bank of Serbia report as someone who would lend this loan to our Republic Directorate that we don't take from these in the world?- I'm sorry. There are a lot of questions that start with why, to which the answer may be simple, but we don't have it, and what's in principle is why we're discussing these things in the post-fest, and not before we even get into a situation to be in charge. For these reasons, we feel that the proposal for this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, we should give these explanations that are necessary and that only when we see what it is, why and where it is about us even then. Before that, we think that we are simply asked to be a voting machine and to demand the mere pressure of the taster with the "yes", and I don't think that's the purpose of the promoter, and of course, not the role, nor the task of our MPs. Thank you very much, and I expect this proposal to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32262	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, so let the MP Petar Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32263	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, last time there was a tax code set, Mr. Secretary was walking around America, and now he's walking around here in the O.R. We can't know how to explain what he's proposing. He seems to have lost a bit of a compass in the walk so he doesn't realize he's just the minister of finance of the Republic of Serbia, but he imagines the finance minister is an Interpol or something. It is because of this provision that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia should pay the movable property tax they have on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and abroad. It's the only practice in the world that's being introduced here with some new experiments and with Mr. Minister Djelic. Because basically, this immovable property is not on our territory and we have no right to finance the budget from it. All that Mr. Djelic is doing here through this set of tax laws, which he explains as the government's proposal, means on behalf of the government, is a desperate attempt by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Djelic to fill the budget deficit resulting from their tax policy and the way in which this country leads, and that example of the collection of mobile assets located abroad, and the other is that the tax administration is getting, I can say, even more powers than anywhere in the world. Now, for example, the tax administration has the right to block with its solution the taxpayer's funds if it finds out whether the taxpayer has not settled his obligations, on the principle of "When you're sued, the cadium judges you" and not only blocks you, but also to make payments from those funds at the expense of the Public Revenue Authority. In working with the former financial police and RUJP, I can tell the current representatives of the tax administration that many times in their solutions in their analysis, in their management of tax books, they repeatedly charged taxes on the same basis and repeatedly punished citizens because of their lack of urgency, and even charged interest on the tax obligations they had already settled. To make things even worse, Mr. Minister allows the tax administration and preys on taxpayers' movable property: first through the list, and then if a certain period does not settle tax obligations, the tax administration has the right to confiscate the property from the taxpayer and sell it. Djelic goes further in his advance - that he offers two sales opportunities: one with a contract between the buyer and the tax administration, and the other with a public competition. Now, the first one, when it comes to the contract, between the buyer and the tax administration, is only giving a broad possibility of abuse; that the buyer and someone who manages the procedure on behalf of the tax administration simply sell out the property of the taxpayers, but also the other, be sure, that they achieve some material benefit both the state and the taxpayer. Furthermore, Mr Djelic foresees the possibility that the tax administration can confiscate business books from taxpayers' premises. Let's say -- come on, that kind of possibility in the law has been regulated so far, however, the other -- that she even has the right to take automatic data processing devices from business premises and carry them on whether in the tax administration, whether at home, it doesn't say it in the law, and to monitor how taxes are recorded and charged from there. Well, I can say that this is practically very difficult because the majority of such firms most often subject to this type of use of automatic data have only one computer and it serves them as a register and for the making of calculations and for the disposal of tax books, so that taking away one such device would make it difficult for them to work, if not completely impossible - and this is also one such taxpayer for each change, for each order must have neatly complex documentation in papers under existing legal regulations, so that it is illusory to take the means to work when it is easier to take a folder and perhaps, eventually, to draw out a closing sheet and thus have complete records on the operation of a single company. Mr Djelic is still going on in that principle, that he is also beginning to interfere with a business that is not his. So far he's tried several times through public appearances, whether in the media, whether for this speaker, he wants to say he wants to work a little bit in privatisation, and here, I can see in this bill he even interferes in the affairs of the MUP, where the tax administration has the right to even bring in citizens. It is in general a interference of power and jurisdiction, because there is a legislative, judicial and executive authority, as well as the authorities of the state administration. The tax administration is an authority of the state administration and has no right under any law to bring in citizens and even less to enforce force. A tax administration worker must not cross the front line of a yard or an apartment without a court ruling until the owner approves it without a court ruling and without an executive authority, let alone apply force. But, of course, if they try to bring taxpayers in this way, make sure the taxpayers apply force.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32264	The People's Messenger Dusan Ilic has the word, and then Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32265	The president of the Republic is not with us, the minister is not with us, the chairman of the Legislative Committee is not with us today, and I will begin my presentation only by a brief review of the abuse of an emergency procedure which is by whom knows which time it was committed this time. In Article 157. The rules of procedure say that only a law governing issues and relations arises under circumstances that could not be foreseen and the adoption of an emergency law could result in adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations. Let's kind of understand the counterguarantees, that bill and the Roads Directorate, they've already threatened the country's life and safety. It somehow binds the lives of people, the relationship between asphaltes, roads and the bill proposal and the emergency procedure and I can find; let's find, the adverse consequences of insufficient budget filling and they exist, but it would still be good if the legislator had made it a little better, as the Rules of Procedure tells him, an explanation of these draft laws and the adverse consequences that would result from their prejudiciality. It's about going back to a previous sales tax debate a few months ago. It has been marked by two amendments: these are amendments on the exemption from the press tax and amendments on gas and lubricating taxes. The DSS proposed that the sales tax be abolished for the press and publications, since all countries in the environment do not have that tax. At that time, however, the Ministry and the ruling majority gave us an explanation that there is a tax exemption in the case of remittende and that that is quite enough, and that there is no need to over-lease the media and that it would simply not be too good to give financial freedoms to the media. I was then representing the view that through that member of the law that regulates special publications of importance for culture we have many abuses since many monthly editions and even some tabloids have been exempt from taxes under the pretext that they are of importance to culture. I will not now state the names of these magazines, I would not like to make propaganda for anyone, but we see that in the meantime, the Ministry and the ruling majority have drastically changed their attitude, which leads me to the same conclusion as the Matic MP, that it is a compromise or attempt to smooth out relations with the media that have been tightened, and especially relations between the former Secretary of the Communications and Electronic Media Bureau. As for the sales tax and the former amendment on gas release, we all remember how much the League and Democratic Party MPs then pushed into the chest as they did a big deal for Vojvodina, and after only a month the price of gas had increased, and then, in time, even though it was said on the Legislative Committee that this amendment was not legally possible, the amendment on the release of the magutta from sales taxes was also put to the vote, which directly resulted in a concession from one of the participants on major tender privatisations, which, with a convincing ease, bought three sugars. As for the fiscal tills and the move again through the work of the president of the Legislative Committee, it is obvious that this is a compromise made so simply that Minister Djelic would not put himself in an awkward situation in front of his foreign partners -- that he is giving up or delaying tax reform, which the DSS also advocates, in order not to question his engagement to introduce value added tax. It is obvious that a compromise has been made that through the amendment of the President of the Legislative Committee, the MP who plays the case and the chairman of the Committee, the introduction of fiscal registers is delayed at a small door. And this is a clear indication that the situation in the economy is not good and that, simply, the Ministry and the Government adapt to the circumstances, as this Rules of Procedure in Rule 157 says. - "that could not be predicted." Apparently, the government and the ministry couldn't predict that they were going to go so badly. We at the DSS pointed out in time, they disobeyed us, and now they have to make this kind of correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32266	The People's MP Radojko Petrovic has the word, so let the MP Petar Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32267	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, what to say at the outset about the decision taken by the parliamentary majority of DOS to conduct a united debate on the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the Transport Tax Act and the Law on the granting of counterguarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Rehabilitation of Roads. Do you really think you can convince someone that the counter-guarantee law, as you stated both in the debate and in the written proposal, is mutually conditional and interrelated to the Tax Act and the Tax Procedure Act. It is clear to all of us that there is no conditionality or connection, but there is only a desire for a formal fundamental debate to pass as soon as possible and for the laws to be passed. It is not disputed that you have a majority for these bill proposals and that you can vote them, but by doing so, you eliminate the fundamental essence of parliamentaryism, which is the essence of parliamentaryism in the debate, not in the vote. In the short term, and for you is a favourable circumstance, and that will certainly cost you a lot later, which there is no TV transmission session of this assembly, so the people have no insight into real implementation of legislative work, there is no insight to which all degrees go improvisation in congregation work. Due to the lack of logic of a united debate on issues that are not at all related, the Transport Tax Act and the law on the granting of a counter-guarantee for credit, I will only talk in further statements about the counter-guarantee law. It is good that we renew the roads, build roads, and there is no objection in this direction, however, the issue of which the funds are being implemented. We do not know whether there is a share of domestic sources or all of foreign credits, and the question is immediately whether these funds could have been used for more priority purposes, as well as how much our foreign debt is and whether we will be able to recover those loans in good time. With all due respect, the government's optimism and its finance minister, Mr Djelic, is extremely difficult to pay off. The foreign debt in Serbia, in fact together with Serbia-Montenegro currently stands at around $12 billion and $200 million. It is a constant tendency to increase this amount of debt. Let us bear in mind that this task did not arise during Milosevic, but rather, before and after, because of sanctions during Milosevic, there was no actual borrowing. At the end of 2000, external debt amounted to $11 billion and 700 million and was significantly reduced, in fact by several billion due to the Paris Club's resignation. But he grew by two and a half years, as I said earlier, to over 12 billion and 200 million dollars. We're not paying back our debts now. Past, i.e. In 2002, instead of a $343 million debt, we paid back only $43 million, and the difference was attributed to basics and normal, which is why we pay interest daily and the debt is increasing. According to European Bank experts, Serbia-Montenegro is among the top ten countries in the world. What's the worst part about all this? The worst thing is that the economy is still stagnating, there's no movement - so if we're in charge of at least feeling progress. The relevant economic policy yields poor results, no economic reforms can be talked about unless they lead to economic growth. Production in the first five months of this year was less than the same month last year and for January -- in May it is less than the same period last year by more than 3%. The external trade deficit keeps growing and seriously threatening to soon become a debt crisis. In 1998, the deficit was 1.991.000,000 and the coverage was then: imports - exports 58.8%. When sanctions are lifted instead of repairing the situation, it is rapidly getting worse. In 2001, the external trade deficit was 2,934,000 and the coverage of imports - exports was 39.3%; last 2002 the deficit exceeded $4 billion, i.e. in particular $4,055,000, and export coverage fell to 36%. Such a negative result has not been recorded by any Yugoslavia or Serbia in its history. For the first five months of this year, the external trade deficit is higher than last year's 22.3% and is $1.887.000,000. According to the country's experts, our size and economic power can provide normal development if they export about 50% of the production achieved. In 1990, we exported 40% of the production achieved, and past only 15% and unfortunately the participation continued to decrease. For the sake of comparison, I say that Slovenia currently exports about 60% of its production. In the external trade exchange, there is a growing trend in the unfavourable structure of exports of our products. The share of high-processing products is reduced where profits are higher and we are increasingly exporting low-grade products where profits are lower. Excessive liberalisation of imports, and now the reduction of customs duties due to harmonisation with Montenegro will further lead us into a difficult position. The enormously large external trade responsibility and deficit cannot be covered indefinitely by new responsibilities. And if we wanted to, the trustees wouldn't let us, because we won't be able to pay back our debts. Let us not forget that there is a debt crisis at the door of Serbia. We saw that last year, we could only get $43 million back from the 343. In this year, we get $467 million back, in the following year 719 million, in 2005, 852 etc., up until 2009, the annual debt payout is increasing to a billion and 630 million! All of what I'm talking about, these obligations are calculated on the basis of current duty on condition that they don't increase any dollar of new debts. Let's not fool ourselves that the foreign trade deficit will be long enough to settle for the purchase of foreign exchanges from our citizens. Citizens have poored and sold their last foreign exchange savings, so these sources will be drained. Did the state create a favourable environment for economic development? All that data says she didn't provide it. Serious changes are needed in relation to current economic policy. That's what SPS MPs kept pointing to. There's no real development if he's just based on borrowing. Foreign investors invest slightly because they probably don't trust our economic policy. Well, isn't that enough signal for economic policy to change? Who can even justify the situation that the external trade deficit and the duty of the mountains is in 2001, 2002 and for the first five months of this year, rather than the case in 1997 and 1998 when we were under the most severe sanctions of the UN Security Council. There is no clear way to find the right way to stimulate exports and borrowing. What the Government has done to encourage the organisation of reprocellins in the production chain to export more and products of higher stages of processing. That was necessary to do. The government seems to have forgotten the role of large enterprises in exports, as well as that they are strategic carriers of economic development. Let's look at Slovenia's experiences. When I talk about large enterprises and their importance in exports, I don't want to neglect the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, but craft workshops and small businesses cannot be export carriers. The regulation of debt with the London Club was obviously not timely and effective. The debt from the '60s and '70s is now about two and a half billion. It could have been much more convenient to regulate one and a half or two years ago than it is now - the write-off rate is constantly increasing. Once the debt could be regulated by 10% at the end of last year by 48%, but now that rate was written off grew to 47% and 53% would have to be returned. To bring the discussion to an end: in my presentation, I did not want to challenge the adoption of the proposed counter-guarantee law to give the European Bank a loan to rebuild the roads, but to point to the state of huge foreign debt, easy borrowing and to urgently take measures to change economic policy in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32268	The People's MP Petar Cvetkovic has the word, so let the MP Goran Cvetanovic be prepared. To point out, the DSS parliamentary group has two other registered speakers; the total time remaining to discuss in principle is 42 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32269	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to be relatively brief. What I must object at this time and at the very beginning, which is obviously an objection and most MPs, I do not think it is this "genial", no offense to Mr Mitrovica, to the idea that these three laws - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport Taxation, merges with the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the Republic Roads Directorate. No, literally, no connection between these three draft laws and at least this third one was to be discussed separately in relation to the previous two laws. It is already an established practice to play this restrictive Rules of Procedure in a certain way, and on the other hand it has already been seen and it is repeatedly repeated that the vision of democracy is this parliament and that the centre of power of decision is far beyond this parliament. We serve here to say something that no one will take or hear in this country, and the EU will certainly hear all of this. No one in this country, or the Republic government, will consider any objection other than the boast that usually goes with ignorance. There's also a lot of things that might be called "unhappiness." There are no government representatives at this time. These three laws connect only what the Government Proposer is the same for all three laws, Mr Djelic, otherwise, the matter of these laws is completely different and at this point I will speak most fully of the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee. It is precisely this point that basic analyses, explanations should be given, so they should appear in the Assembly of the two ministries; the minister of urban and construction and the minister of transport and telecommunications. Not enough of their contradictory statements by the media, with regard to the full state of play of the Road Directorate. There is a contradiction of the Directorate itself which gives completely different explanations than those of the two ministries which seem to have almost no inter-resorial co-operation with each other. Article 1 The law on the granting of counterguarantees of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the Republic of Serbia's Roads Directorate, the Republic of Serbia undertakes as a counterguarantee of Serbia-Montenegro's commitments as a guarantor for the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Republic Roads Directorate of 76m euros under a loan agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Republic Roads Directorate, concluded on July 31st 2002 for a project to restore the roads of the Republic of Serbia. We have heard a few words in the opening statement of Mr. Minister with one huge mistake, he says - the funds will be used for corridor 10 and that in central Serbia. This is completely incorrect because "Corridor 10" goes Saturday-Presevo, i.e. the Macedonian border, and the arms are those that can go towards central Serbia from this corridor or from Nis to the Bulgarian border or from Belgrade to Zagreb. I can't blame it, the minister, from a completely different deliquor, from the second ministry, is this law, he said only on the financial side of two sentences that the state of the road infrastructure is bad and that this loan is not significant, but is not insignificant, it is 76m euros, it will be used primarily for central Serbia, if I understand it correctly, and there is no Mr. Minister here to deny me or to give me a closer explanation about it. I have to point out, when it comes to corridor 10 that it's a story that's been retreating for years, more than 10-15 years, and that's what the previous government has been doing and this current one, but there's no consistent results or shifts. What's going to be the accent of my presentation is precisely on this -- "Corridor 10", and when I say so, I mean the road from Nis, or Doljevac to the Macedonian border. There's no indication it'll end in due time, and it doesn't seem to be then either. The country's specific geographical position has affected and affected the entire economic, traffic, cultural and other development of the country, and is reflected in the transit character of our highway travel network. A significant part of the European road network is on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with the most important corridor 10, which is the shortest link between Central Europe and the Middle East, with the lowest transport costs of all alternative routes. This corridor directly connects eight countries, indirectly six more and significant capitals, with a total length of around 2,400 km, of which Serbia belongs to a respectable part of 800 km or about 34% of the total length of the corridor. Corridor 10 has been taken very seriously in Europe, especially in the European Community, so it is still at the Third European Conference in Helsinki in June 1997, which is, after the sanctions, the valorised corridor 10 again with the main direction, as I said, in Serbia since the Sutoticed Macedonian border and the arms of Budapest towards Novi Sad and Belgrade and Nis towards Demotrovgrad, Sofia and Istanbul. Our great advantage is that at the moment of holding the Third European Conference in Helsinki, a full profile of the highway was built in a significant length on the main direction of corridor 10 through our country, from the state border towards Croatia to Belgrade in the length of 112 km and from Belgrade to Pečevac in the length of 263 km. In 1997, a 72.4km stake from Grabovnica to the Macedonian border was built until the 2004 Olympic Games in Gračko. There was a spatial plan from Nis to the state border to Macedonia -- a spatial infrastructure corridor plan was developed with accompanying content. However, we had significant remarks from Minister Šumarca, that the current plan is not consistent, that it is outdated, so it has been used for about two years. We've been informed in winter that the spatial plan for this section is over. The reconstruction of the travel network in Serbia certainly had to begin, so before the previous government invested little or insufficiently in restoring this infrastructure, and the basic accent needed to be thrown onto corridor 10; at the time of adoption in 2000, 60% of these highways and regional roads were mature for rehabilitation. The priority advantages of our 10-way freeway network required the least resolution of existing highways and the continuation of construction. Despite significant investments, I have data for 2001 and 2002: about 140m euros were invested in 2001, and in 2002 about 225m euros, i.e. for these two years 365m euros, by restoring short-stakes roads all over Serbia, without any plan or visible plan and programme. The full absence of the strategy, priority and rational investment in the abovementioned reconstruction and construction of corridor 10, has achieved minor effects of valorisation of those advantages. It is inadmissible and incomprehensible that most of the performance projects are not done in the attractive direction of Corridor 10, thus preventing potential investment. I'll remind you a little later, it's just about those loan requirements sent to the European Bank. From experts, through former to current authorities, everyone agreed, at least on the words, that corridor 10 is the biggest development opportunity for Serbia, which is geographically, as you know, on the east-west road. This is undoubtedly true and there is no dilemma about it. For years, the question is why Serbia does not take advantage of this development opportunity. While the former government has justified itself with zero sanctioned sanctions and so on, today's rule of incompetence and reluctantly conceals a well-tested recipe - for everything that is wrong and has not been done and after more than two years, it is the former regime's fault. What is certain at this point, Corridor 10 will not be completed in many years, and will certainly not be completed until next year, when there was a very significant chance for loans, or for donations to the Republic of Serbia. We are witnessing that on July 13th, the Commission of the Greek Foreign Ministry for the Monitoring and Implementation of the Greek Economic Reconstruction Plan in the Balkans (ESOB) rejected the Serbian Government's projects for the reconstruction of Corridor 10, which connects Greece and Austria. Greek Foreign Minister Andreas Lovergos, in charge of implementing this programme, announced, not in particular, that the Commission has decided to reject five projects at the current stage due to a lack of essential elements and that they are reconsidered in the immediate future, as technical assistance for preparation is provided by the European Agency for Reconstruction, whose headquarters is in Thessaloniki. As for Serbia's 10-related project specifically, the above-mentioned organisation's assistance will be provided by the Permanent Committee of Corridors 10, currently chaired by Greece. Despite the best will and pre-election and, then, the "every year" promises of the Republic government, a significant shift in the construction of this important corridor of 10, which could, as well as the fact that the minister himself, as well as G-17+, Labus, and the entire republican government, which could significantly withdraw Serbia's development, particularly parts of southern Serbia, from Velika Grabovnica to the Macedonian border, have withdrawn the development and acceleration of the economic growth of a significant number of business branches, where I quote the statement by Mr. Minister Šumarca -- "there was an opportunity to employ around 120,000 people, by building and part of the highway". It doesn't have to be true that there are so many, a significant number of people, and for significant economic activities the shift could have been achieved. The nelados, ignorance or poor work of the Republic Directorate for Ways and Resort Ministries and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, from 2000 to today, has not taken any solution in the past two and a half years, i.e. no work has been taken to indicate that there is a serious intention to build a very important corridor, which is particularly interested in northern Greece, i.e. Greece, in connection with the European Community and because of the 2004 Olympic Games. We didn't take that chance. This traffic runs in alternative directions, although this route is the shortest, most profitable, economical, precisely because of poor work and the Republic Government, the Ministry and the Republic Road Directorate. This bill also had to follow a normal analysis, particularly about: what are the shares, i.e. what are these roads; what is the infrastructure of the roads mature to restore reconstruction, i.e. for construction; to do a financial analysis of how much debt and in general the state of Serbia, as already stated here by Mr Srdjan Petrovic. We're facing a debt crisis. So what is the debt of the Serbian state? Then, what debt regarding these activities, precisely for building and restoring infrastructure, or roads? Is, and it is, this loan is according to some economic criteria, but is this economy, this state of Serbia able to return the same, regardless of whether it is not significant at its height?- I'm sorry. So these analyses are needed, both economically and on the condition of the roads in Serbia, given that the loan refers to this section, not to the railways or to the waterways. Only after that, with an analysis to get one conclusion, a recommendation from the competent ministries and the government on what to do. So, we came to the situation that the Director of the Roads Directorate, the other day, declared that just some other road section is a priority for the government, this Directorate and the Competent Ministry, relative to the road route, that is, this corridor 10 that literally connects the West with Eastern Europe and which, not for years, but centuries, is the main route. This is how we came up with one extension, and I'm not defending the previous, or the current republican government. The previous ones did not invest anything, and I will remind you, there is no coherent development of Serbia if there is no even development of all its parts. That previous government, feel free to laugh at those who are more beautiful, that previous government is, literally, for it Serbia stopped at the payment ramp in Nis, those southern charging ramps. Also, this Republic government has no strategy, no desire to help and do anything. What was most important, this corridor 10 where substantial funds could be collected from donations, and I will remind you, Greece has reserved 235m euros for this purpose. As I just read, some projects have been rejected, precisely because of, or incompetence, or the lack of work of competent ministries or the Republic government. The same situation continues: neither the economy is reviving itself, nor this important corridor 10 is being produced, so that, and I have no objection, but the alterative directions, will take on the eternal role of this corridor, and that part of Serbia will be lost very quickly to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32270	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, the MP Jovan Todorovic should be prepared; the SRS has four speakers reported, and the total time for discussion is 21 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32271	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thought Mr. Pera Cvetkovic was a man of his word. He said he'd be brief, concise and clear, and he said 20 minutes. Apparently, he deceived fellow MPs. It is likely that Mr. Djelic, in part, is competent to present the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and he is partly competent to talk about the draft law on amendments to the Transport Tax Act. Surely it is not for this third draft law, the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, on the loan of the Republic Roads Directorate. In any case, the National Assembly was to be present, and especially on this third point, i.e. under the third draft of the law, which I am going to talk about, Minister Marija Raseta - Vukosavljevic, Minister of Transport, and probably because of these statements and because of the appropriate competent place, it was necessary for the Director of the Republic Road Directorate, Mr Tihomir Timothyjevic, to be present today among us. The bill says it is necessary to be a law of urgency, and above all, because tenders are already called for the implementation of projects financed from this European Bank's refurbishment and development credit at the final stage. After all, since we know mostly that all the laws that are adopted are in effect on the eighth day, and this is where it is required to be immediately after the proposed law is passed, because it is necessary to access the very restoration of the travel network of the Republic of Serbia. This year's budget of the Republic Road Directorate is 18 billion dinars. So six billion refers to loans, eight billion come from the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget, while four billion are direct revenues from the Directorate of Taxes, Tolls and other compensations. In order to complete corridor ten, it is necessary to secure about two billion dollars, because it needs to be completed, somewhere, another 430 kilometers. The question arises: on what routes does the Government intend to invest these financial resources? Who's going to do the work on those roads? Whether it's public works or business again, like "Difens Road" performs such works. The European Investment Bank's 37m-euro emergency programme has already been invested in rehabilitating part of the road network. This amount, 86m euros, based on the loan agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Republic Roads Directorate, is insufficient to complete Corridor 10, but if the entire amount is invested in the worst share of the road passing through Serbia, i.e. An additional investment by the Greek government will take place through the 50km-long municipality of Leskovac. There will be a better connection between Leskovec, Vranja, Kumanov, Veles, Devgelija, Thessaloniki, i.e. the northern Greek cities with central Europe and the Mediterranean. Corridor 10 is a traditional road connecting Southeast Europe with Central Europe. In addition to connecting Serbia, corridor 10 is heading towards Nis towards Bulgaria, the second is going from Belgrade to Croatia and the third is going towards Hungary. Probably, that part of the trip would have already been at some final stage, but apparently, the current government has not made any contribution. According to all data, five Serbian government projects for the reconstruction of the "European Corridor 10" have been rejected, and above all, because the essential elements of the project have certain shortcomings. The Greek Foreign Ministry Commission, which is also interested in this project, rejected the projects. There is a tendency for these projects to be reconsidered in the immediate future, but there is also a need for a large contribution from the government and which it does not have. We have statements from Mr. Tihomir Timothyevich. That only 5,500 vehicles pass through that stock, so if we know that this is really the worst way, not only through Serbia, but through the whole Balkans, then we certainly know the reasons why such a frequency is small on that share. For this reason, for this reason, the government should make a contribution and that all the funds that are to be adopted by this bill should be invested in that 50km section of the road, which passes through the Gredic ravine despite Leskovec. I remind you, just in the presidential elections in all six municipalities of Jablani County and in all municipalities of the Pcinj County, Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj won the presidential election. Do not repeat the mistake that the Socialists made: they punished municipalities where Slobodan Milosevic did not win. If this government does it, you know, it's always moving from the South! We'll be on our way very soon, in a few months, everyone from the South and this government will fall. We warn Minister Djelic to keep an eye on where he invests this money, otherwise, all these unions will and how to exploit those poles they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32272	The right to replicate MP Petar Cvetkovic, as he was mentioned in the presentation of MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32273	Mr. Cvetanović, this is a topic we could talk about not for two days, but much longer. I tried to be as concise as possible and it did take 20 minutes. In those 20 minutes, I failed to mention the registration of the company "Difens Road" in Vranje; the machines that were doing the reconstruction, or a new layer on the highway towards Nis; I could not mention, nor could I ask Mr. Minister as a representative of the government about the ties of the government's construction operation and the loans coming from abroad. There's a lot of questions left, there's still time, I've been too confused, so I haven't been able to ask all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32274	As there was three minutes left in the morning session until the end of the working hours for the Assembly, I would only read one notice, which is; that the session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be held in the session session of the National Assembly on the ground floor. We'd like to finish this morning's session. The first to be reported for the debate in the afternoon is MP Jovan Todorovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic. Thank you. [[After break - 15.55]] Please insert your identification cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We've got a quorum to work with. We can get started. The first to be declared by the word is MP Jovan Todorovic, let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32276	Ladies and gentlemen fellow MPs, no MPs, no ministers, no TV transmissions, no understanding of the proposals the opposition is making in the form of an amendment. Looks like the election's close. Let me put into a few sentences my opinion on the proposed laws that are on the agenda today, with me having to, as well as the predecessors, say that it is completely illogical to merge the law on counter-guarantee with the tax law and the Tax Administration Act, but what is there. First of all, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, I would like to remind you all that the SPS has just proposed that the press be exempt from the sales tax, and that when the Transport Tax Act was adopted, it was not possible for the Secretary-General to understand or the parliamentary majority in this assembly. Now the question must be raised here - what has changed significantly in the meantime and has led the promoter to release the 20% sales tax just printed and to lose 600 million dinars in the budget, as explained in the explanation? I have the impression that this decision has been influenced by Montgomery and that this is one of the ruling majority's procedures that, in some ways, a little bit willful for Mr. Montgomery, and that the media is preparing not to be too critical towards the authorities in the election campaign. There is no other way I can explain it, because if it were the real interests or the real understanding of the government for the state of the country's citizens, then they would suggest that the sales tax be abolished, on the electricity delivered, and especially after the 15% purchase. If we compare the situation in the environment, then we'll see that there is no such rate of sales tax anywhere in the world when it comes to electricity. That's what I'll talk about when I explain the amendment to that subject. Why is it not proposed to exempt the sales tax of items belonging to children, especially children's clothing, baby food, etc.; and we know that we had a big debate about when we managed to free the sales tax on edible oil and, say, animal fat. It all seems to me that this is one step that really needs to cloud that story that the government is controlling the media and that in this way the media would approve or weaken their criticism. When it comes to amending the Tax Administration Act, I must say that Article 186 and today, as it was a year ago, when it was discussed, as regards the SPS, and I believe most of you fellow MPs, are extremely controversial. First, it is controversial to prescribe such an obligation that property values above 10 or 20 million are reported in a special way. What makes you say that? Because there are several items in that property that are, objectively speaking, already recorded. Take, for example, land. We can talk about the fact that we don't have cadastrian books to the end built, but the land records, when it comes to both physical and legal persons, are fully known. Take property, houses, cottages, garages, all reported through applications when we applied property tax, and most of us, I think that Milka, too, we get the tax administration's solutions to pay the property tax. If someone tells me today that it is a non-legislative property that is not built in accordance with the Law on the Construction of Objects, it is also a kind of delusion, because in the meantime we have passed a Construction Act that will allow such objects to be legalised and recorded as property of an individual or an entrepreneur or a legal person. Take an example of action. All actions achieved at any stage of privatisation, since 1990 until today, have been registered in the Action Register and know exactly who owns these actions. Why is it that someone who owns or shares in a company should report all of this in particular? The shares shall be recorded in all possible documents when registering companies with limited liability or when changing the ownership of those shares. I'm sure trade courts have a clear and up-to-date record of who owns this stake. The savings in commercial or commercial banks are recorded. We pay taxes on the income of citizens based on the income from the interest we make. So there's definitely clear records. And cash -- that would be out of your mind?- I'm sorry. I ask you, fellow MPs, who among you would report the cash at home in a pillow, straw or somewhere else hidden, to any tax authority or any authority in this country, for two reasons - for the threat of that cash: if unauthorized or uncontrollable, there is such data; and another reason is purely fiscal: because if it is legal income, then it is already taxed, or through personal income from businesses, fees, through any other basis for cash. What was particularly surprising to me, we are now erasing art from the obligation to report it, and I think we are creating an opportunity for those who, eventually, possess illegally acquired cash to invest that money right in the works of art. The third question that I have is the question of judgment. My subjective assessment of how much property I have is worth -- one is my estimate if I want to sell that property, and the other is if someone wants to buy it from me. In these changes, the tax authority is said to be able to carry out an assessment, which means that the previous assessment is subjective. Finally, the ultimate reason for these changes in the law is precisely the disagreement between Ministers Djelic and Vlahovic. Vlahovic thinks that such an obligation to report assets would have a fatal effect on the privatisation process and process, Mr Djelic is considering fiscally and only considering how to get as much tax in the Republic budget as possible. Who knows, maybe it's a good thing that these potential buyers of our businesses are scared, because we have a situation where our companies are sold for nothing. For those of you who think I'm wrong, I'm going to remind you of several companies that are privatised under earlier laws, in which they are mainly workers in these companies and which are certainly the most successful companies at this point in the Republic of Serbia. Take the "Apathian brewery", take the "Soko stork", "Tiger"Pirot, "Hemofarm" Vršac, take many other companies. That is why it may be good that these investors are afraid of this situation, but it is not good for a general picture that is sent through such changes to investors, as well as to our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32277	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, let MP Dusan Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32278	A few months ago from this assembly pay phone, we, to assure Mr. Djelic that the finances are stable, announced that the government must intervene with some law and change its tax policy. Of course, then we said that this future change would be something worse. Here's proof in terms of these two draft laws. Not to enter the material reasons why the budget doesn't have the resources, and there won't be any by the end of the year in that planned amount and why the state won't be able to fulfill all its functions. When we talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I would draw attention to some of the provisions that only confirm that initial position - that destruction is at work and that it goes so far to one member, even, predicting a solution to the withdrawal of the taxpayer of the allocated PIB number. The FIB number is a regular record number that comes to that famous mathematics and it's a simple record. Since the Tax Administration cannot charge or recalibrate, it may be a more appropriate term, they have even gone so far as to ask for authority to subtract a number, and subtracting a number means temporary closure of a taxpayer's company. That's not all, it goes on and on, so by changing members of the 68th IRS, the IRS is so supplied with powers that it can prey on anything and everything. Of course, one cosmetic change - the name of the Payments Act is thrown out. If they're already doing it, let them do it with article 95. The law. They forgot that's where the change should be made. It is similar with the members of 96 and 97, where forced payment goes also to the taxpayer, i.e. the debtor of the taxpayer, according to a reduced procedure, the tax procedure, past the court decision and any court proceedings. Something like that's not allowed. An intervention against a third party who is not in a tax-law relationship with the Tax Administration is possible only through a judicial judicial decision, and by no means by a tax authority. Unfortunately, if someone doesn't pay, they're threatening to shut him down. That money jag is manifested that way. Of course, something that probably doesn't exist on the globe, that's the change in Article 135, where the tax authority in the pre-criminal procedure gets jurisdiction from the Ministry of the Interior. It is absolutely inadmissible, forbidden, unconstitutional, because the possibility and the right to deprive someone of liberty, and the detention, informative conversation, detention, it is exclusively the right of the official persons of the MUP. No other official has that authority, so let him be a representative of an inspection body. Something like that is simply illegal. As far as famous member 186 is concerned. - You know what? After the law on one-time extra-profit tax, then this special registration from Article 186 is not surprising and there is no purpose, God knows what, to make some other records, but to get a catalogue of people who have, catalogue individuals, owners of capital that they have, where the tax authority can always come and look for as much as it needs. As for the amendments to the Transport Tax Act, it is not good for the IRS to determine what a monograph is. There's the Publishing Act, the Publications Act. It's a matter that needs to be regulated there. At the very end - this won't help either, be sure. This will only contribute to closing as many legal entities as possible. If that's the goal, then probably that goal will be achieved, and if it's not the goal, you've already achieved it in fact; because today in Serbia, all those who deal with the economy are struggling with only one problem -- which job to do after this openness and this chaos, which step to jump over, that something should not be met, because the motive for any economic activity has been lost. In this way, a message is sent, and it specifically takes something to make this motive go away for a relatively long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32279	The word has been given by MP Dusan Cvetkovic. Let the MP Milos Lukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32280	I must say that in southern Serbia, especially in Leskovac, the procedure for providing counter-guarantee to the Republic Roads Directorate has caused a storm of dissatisfaction, precisely because the law is put into practice when all machinery is withdrawn from the highway, when the director of the Republic Directorate gives a newspaper statement that building corridor 10 is not absolutely in Serbia's interest, is not in the plan of the Republic government, so that a group of MEPs from the Jablani County also had a press conference Monday, with a desire to point out to the Republic Government that what is currently being done, according to the south of Serbia, is not correct and in some way retaliatory to southern Serbia. Milka, if you can't shut up, put water in your mouth, put water in your mouth, and then you can shut up. Here are several reasons why, as a representative of the Socialists of southern Serbia, I will be against the vote of this counter-guarantee law. First, when a legislative proposal was reached before this congregation home by emergency procedure, which was concluded about a year ago (about twenty days less) then this must cause a certain suspicion. In addition to all the objective reasons for the one-time delay in this legislative proposal, whether there have been some calculations by the Serbian government, the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate for the Ways of the Republic of Serbia, surely we cannot respond as MPs, and whoever can do so does not want or raises reasons that are totally unacceptable as an objective and realistic explanation. Those to whom this is clear, which are MPs of the ruling DOS, will certainly vote yes, but I hope that the MPs of southern Serbia will not have the courage and the heart to lift two fingers for the adoption of this counterguarantee. Another reason why this counter-guarantee does not deserve the voice of the citizens of southern Serbia, who sent me to this assembly home with their votes, is the fact that, despite all promises that at the level of the Serbia-Montenegro community, as well as at the level of Serbia, they will do a study that will set the sustainability threshold on the total level of borrowing with the possibilities of real repayment of total loans. Because this government has begun intensive borrowing with a grace period that goes back to a time when it will not be in power, and that is one of the important reasons why every borrowing must be considered very seriously. The third reason, I'd say, is so inconclusive that the law that's been waiting for a year has to come into effect the day after the announcement in the Official Messenger, which is more like a prank than an objective reason. There are still many reasons why Serbian lawmakers from the south must be against adopting this "guarantee", because it looks like, you remember, that bell and that church, when they listed ten reasons why the bell doesn't ring, and the main reason is there's no bell. Therefore, we from southern Serbia, because in these 76m euros there is no southern Serbia anywhere, we cannot be in favour of the adoption of this counter-guarantee. That is the case with this counter-guarantee, and for it can be voted on by those on the road direction of corridor 10a from Nis towards the Bulgarian border. They, in the direction of Belgrade-Novi Sad-Subotica-Hungarian border, towards 10b, and those along the Ibar highway, those who, according to what the Director of the Republic Road Directorate declares, can expect to rehabilitate the shares of the road Shabac - Loznica, Usce-Biljanovac, Mataruška Banja - Usće, in this year, not to count further. In this 76m-euro loan, another fellow MP, Serbia seems to end up in Nis. So, for two and a half years, he's been waiting to set up only the final asphalt layer, what the Socialists did in their time. So, a 22.5km section of highway waiting to get some sleep and spread the asphalt from Pečevac to Grabovnica. That's what was very often announced, that it would end, but it never came to that. I think what he has in his hands -- I'm interested in what the government of Serbia has offered, and last November 17th, it adopted the Regulation laying down a spatial plan for the Niš infrastructure corridor -- the borders of the Republic of Macedonia, which offered the Serbian government that what it adopted in November last year, is now almost completely thrown under its feet. It's time someone told us today, when it comes to counterguarantee. Is it possible that the only reason that the December elections failed last year was because the presidential candidate, Mr. Zivkovic, and the DOS went to the opposition in Leskovic, which is the only reason it is seen as an enclave in Kosovo. What could have changed the government's overall position and, in practice, made it impossible for what was written in the spatial plan, which is: that building corridor 10 traffic stations should practically reduce the negative tendencies of demographic movements in southern Serbia, to reduce population migration from these parts, to reduce Serbia's metropolision process, etc. What is it that the government right now, and for what reasons, it must do all that would allow southern Serbia to somehow survive and fit into the flows of the rest of the Republic, that it throws it under its feet this time?- I'm sorry. In the end, I have to say, if he gives up on this, and MPs and Leskovac will ask for it, and we'll ask for a meeting with the resolution minister, so let's see what it is that's got him doing something like this. We must say, and it stands very well here, that the deadlines adopted by the government in November last year are practically not respected and will not be respected, but some 2018 will end. - 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32281	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Milos Lukic; and after him shall be prepared the messenger of the people, Djordje Mamula; and the SS shall have 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32282	I will try in several sentences to refer to the Government's proposal on these three regulations put on the agenda, and where the debate is united regardless of all the diversity of matter they regulate. If we remember how the finance minister was now, in the beginning -- he briefly convinced what this was about, he wasn't convincing enough and he didn't get the applause he got at first. You remember the thunderous applause he got at the beginning of his term. This should seriously concern both the government and this ministry, because the fact that the people are not satisfied with the work of the finance ministry and the fact is that the Law to the Obor administration did not liven up and did not give those effects that were widely discussed at the end of last year. I will remind only that we of the Soviet Union's adoption of this law have made a series of objections, and the basic objection was that too many powers were given to the Ministry of Finance, the Minister and the Republic of the Public Revenue Authority to regulate matter by sublaws, which is covered by this law. What's the point? The point is that the minister was busy with other things, and a large number of sublegal acts he was supposed to bring, he and his ministry, were not brought in. Many of the services have not functioned to this day. You know that story about the IRS -- it'll come to life in a few months. But what happened? In the transitional and final provisions, powers have been abolished and certain laws have been put out of force until then. A new sublegal act to bring. The financial police and the tax police have lost their authority, and to this day, people have not received solutions to do their job. At that time, it must have been much more instructed to continue working until these sublegal acts were passed. Maybe someone who's more involved in this matter could calculate what the effects are and how much damage this country has not done, and what these services haven't collected public revenue. However, our assessment that the first half of 2003 will pass in some preparations for the implementation of this law has not come true. The deadline continues and will be extended safely for months to come. At the time, we used some numbers: that 7,000 people work in the Republic Public Revenue Administration; 7,000 in the PDO; 7,000 in the Financial Police and that all these people should be taken care of. However, out of those twenty thousand people, one quarter of them may be working on these government jobs, and the other three quarters receive salaries that are not for underestimation, cost this economy, and do not do their job. Now you're going with one threat that whoever has the property of over 20 million dinars will be subject to rigorous control, etc. - one member of the law, I wouldn't quote, says it shouldn't be done on a political basis. However, announcements that are easily heard and which girls from these services are heading exactly in the direction of threatening political inexperiences: that first there will be such controls, that they will first determine the value of the assets, etc. With these amendments and additions to the Tax Administration Act, we have one detail where we are said to be obliged to report assets worth more than 20 million, but if in the control process it happens not to be true, ex post controls will be carried out, etc. and threatens with dragons' punishments. I can claim from this place, that if, for any company and any property, whether it's a legal or physical person, we bring in two of the most valued artists in this country, they won't agree. Therefore, if you want someone as a political inexperience or someone who resents you to do evil, you will carry out an assessment of his property and it certainly will not agree with the one he and his professional services reported, and you can take away a large portion of his property, you can inflict a lot of harassment on him. Perhaps, in the end, a man will end up in front of the judicial authorities and prove he is right, but in any case, a threat that is very indicative: nevertheless, within these points of the agenda, the minister should submit a brief report on the application of these rules in the present period. We have to admit that the Tax Administration Act didn't give effect. It would be much better to confess to someone in power than to make it appear that this is an unprincipled criticism of the opposition. The only explanation for extending the application deadline is also more politically than essential. I don't think it really makes sense to the late prime minister that we've all respected, to say that the reason for extending the deadline is the tragic killing of the prime minister and all that's been happening. I don't think that's an excuse for not applying certain regulations and delaying their application. Also, the claim that it is not a study of the origin of the property does not stand because it is an investigation of the origin of the property. It's just that it's one procedure we've seen in the 1960s. We've seen him in the last decade. He didn't give any big effects. We also had a tax on extraprofits that fell, and these are those topics that the minister should say and explain to us why the law on extraprofit tax wasn't applied to the end, but simply, without any legal basis, giving up on its application. When it comes to controlling natural persons - okay: that property that belongs to natural persons is their property and it has one lasting value, however, I would point out that we place both actions and shares here, and yet it is one variable category. If you own shares in one company, they may be worth a certain number this year, however, it may happen in only a month or two, due to changes in customs, tax policy, due to elemental disasters, due to circumstances on the market and other reasons, that the value of these actions falls. You now report this property, and actually after a few months it's much smaller. Therefore, if someone was the founder of a company with five or ten thousand dollars, and in the meantime they did so, they are subject to other regulations that follow the relevant services and which should take care of the taxation of these and incomes and assets. Only reporting is very problematic. It is also very difficult to believe that confidentiality and privacy will be preserved. I don't think there's much to comment on. When it comes to the tax identification number, it really shouldn't be an official secret, but in practice, each of us who deals with a particular job can express one belief that we have a lot of problems if we need to find out about a company that needs to be sued, with which to work, etc., because there is a very difficult tax number and data in that company. Speaking of which, I must say, one of my subjective grades, that this period for us, especially the first half of 2003, is characterized by a large number of phantom companies. Anyone who legally wants to register a company knows it's impossible to have a phantom company. It's impossible that there are companies where you don't know the address, the owner, etc.; that's what's happening and that's what's been talked about in public. That's what people are public speaking about who are supposed to be suppressing this: ministers, people from the Republic Public Revenue Administration, from the police. This is absolutely wrong, and if other institutions were some of the currents of the previous regime, surely this regime must accept responsibility for the existence of these phantom companies, because it is impossible for these companies to exist without the knowledge of the authorities. When it comes to the application of the Transport Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act, also, one phenomenon that we saw at the beginning of this year, that very ignorant and foolishly implemented charges via the former PDO, or through the National Bank. Very often we have the opportunity to have a few hundred dinars or a few thousand dinars blocking the company and to this day this mechanism has not been established. Let's say, if you have a court ruling, the court delivers this solution on official duty and you're blocked so you can't have the means, no matter what funds you have in your account! We also have companies, I can say an example of "Cosmet Insurance" -- maybe one of you owns a policy of that insurance, which actively carries out its activity on the territory of this country, and there are a lot of people with these policies, but when the charge comes, that company is nowhere to be found. Her address is 43 Kosovo Street. There is no one there, and it means that this country does not protect the citizens of Serbia and, regardless of all attempts and judicial convictions, it is impossible to find this firm and collect damage, and it is known that when it comes to auto responsibility that insurance is responsible. Also, when it comes to borrowing, i.e. a counter-guarantee of 76m euros, it is something that is succesively repeated and there is one great danger that our citizens, from day to day, are increasingly in charge of this way. Recently, the Federal Assembly adopted, in just half an hour, nine legislative rules on various responsibilities -- that says that each citizen of Serbia will be in charge of a certain amount that is difficult to repay in view of the social situation of our citizens. Maybe we should stop with this borrowing, look at some internal possibilities, reserves, maybe shake up a little bit and wake up our own economy, and then this country could go into public income-gathering. We can't collect public revenues most of the time if we don't create them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32283	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Mamula, to prepare MP Dragan Ljubojevic; the remaining DSS time for discussion is 24 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32284	The draft law amending the Transport Tax Act is late, so the question is why has the Ministry of Finance waited so long to appear before the Assembly with this proposal. One of the reasons that is stated in the argument is that this bill will make more investment in this country, so it was very important that the minister, by reason, stated how much has been invested so far and how much expectations are expected of this law that should certainly be adopted. When it comes to investment, it should be borne in mind that domestic banks that are liquid, allocate their money from the central bank, put on foreign exchange savings to such a degree that there has been an outflow of mandatory cash reserves in the central bank, so now the governor is obliged to increase the mandatory reserve, so that domestic banks, domestic investors and are not in the mood to invest money, let alone foreign ones. But in further reasons, the minister says this law only creates normative assumptions for investment, but there are no other assumptions. I don't know if one of the reasons and inflation are, since with this sales tax and existing inflation, there's been a pretty big burden on citizens' purchasing power. According to Mr. Zivkovic, the prime minister of the government, inflation is 4%, according to a statement by Minister of Trade Milosavljevic 7%, and according to Mrs. Kori Udovicki 13%. So, the same government, three opinions on inflation, even if we add a 29% "Employment Review" in the country, according to the latest number of "Employment Review". But what are the effects of this release: it is said on page 7, "on the basis of the release of daily and occasional press, a 600,000 dinar budget revenue reduction is expected". So we've been waiting a year for the effect to be 600,000 dinars. Otherwise, books, magazines, daily and occasional presses were so burdened that otherwise small circulations of books, which are rarely purchased, could not even be obtained to a greater extent, starting with schools and libraries. Is this tax reduction going to contribute - we'll see? However, it is known that the signal from abroad has arrived, that it is necessary to reduce the tax on the turnover of newspapers and magazines and at times when the very clear conflict of authorities and newspapers is. The second law I would like to speak of, which is given in the form of the proposal, is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Last time, the minister promised to amend the law by the new year, since some amendments were withdrawn. He, of course, did not keep his promise, did not amend the Law in that section relating to tax crimes, and therefore they look what they look like and I don't think anyone can be charged with fair proceedings. But it's not trouble that the minister doesn't have enough knowledge of this area, it seems he doesn't have anyone to ask. So the problems that arose with the November Law are now deepening last year. In Article 16, the finance minister defends the view that, in fact, in Article 135(3), "without the right to bring a taxpayer" should be replaced by the words "with the right to bring him in forcibly". Last time he accepted the amendment that the IRS couldn't carry a firearm, and now without a firearm, they'd have the authority to bring him in. In April of this year, a law on ministries under which the Ministry of Finance does not have the authority of internal affairs. If the Ministry of Finance does not have the authority of the internal affairs authorities, then it cannot even act as an internal affairs authority, which is still contained in Article 135 against the law. The MUP has the powers of police, the Security Information Agency has the authority of internal affairs authorities, and if the Ministry of Finance now has the authority of internal affairs, and perhaps the Ministry of Culture, given what the culture minister is saying, it could be completed by the police state. But what's going on? The finance minister, since there is no elemental knowledge in this area, would like the finance ministry to now have the powers of the interior ministry. Does this mean that the finance minister has no confidence in the MUP, so now he would like to have those powers. Otherwise, Article 135(3) is contradictory because it states in that article that when it comes to the rights of citizens, therefore: "In order to detect tax crimes and their perpetrators, the tax police in a pre-active procedure can act as an internal affairs body" - they cannot act; "and it is authorised that, in accordance with the law and in collaboration with these authorities, they take demand actions" - they cannot take demand actions because they are not qualified first, and I don't think the minister even knows what demand operations are. In addition, it is said that it cannot take a number of other actions, i.e. it can do a lot of things, "except for restrictions on movement". If he can't limit his movement, he can't force himself to bring him in. I therefore believe that this Article 16 should not be accepted. In addition, Article 186, which is amended as proposed for an amendment, said Article 19, "The taxpayer, the natural person and the entrepreneur, is required to submit to the Tax Administration, within 10 months of the date of application of this law, an application for the registration of the total property in the country and abroad, if its value is greater than 20,000,000 dinars." So, so far, the obligation has been six months. When the law comes into force, a new 10-month deadline begins, so next May. This is very important because, among other things, it is said that the property, in the sense of Article 1, does not make up art objects. So, those who now have that 20 million-dollar property can come up with artistic objects, be freed from reporting, make money flow into works of art, preserve it and sell it again after a while. So this member is designed to save 20 million assets for certain circles, because it is not clear why measures are not being taken now, if within six months those who have the property did not report that property. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32285	Thank you. Second call, Dr. Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32286	Dear fellow Members of the People, let me, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group in this second announcement, say something more about the set of laws we are discussing today. In fact, since I was not in a position to directly hear Mr Djelic, I have carefully read his presentation and unfortunately, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I can say that these bill proposals, at least these two, on sales tax and tax procedures and tax administration, aside from that technical piece, to say compliance with other laws which are subject to these laws, there are many policies in other provisions through the provisions which are part of these laws, and so are the explanations. Here, first of all, I will say a few sentences about the tax procedure law and the tax administration, that is one member whose extension is proposed. The member is tied to this deadline for reporting assets of more than 20 million dinars, and that deadline, as you know, expired on 30 June and is now proposed for a few months to extend it. I must say that today I heard for the first time one of the explanations why this deadline is extending, and so far in the press there have been, by colleagues, Mr. Minister that the formal reason for extending this deadline is that the taxpayers are not familiar enough with their obligations; so it is necessary to specify certain provisions of the law, so that the printing of forms and so on is necessary, that a certain rule is to be drawn up! Today, we have heard, believe or not, that one of the reasons is that the reason for proposing an extension of the application is the tragic death of Mr Djindjic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Operation Sabbe. How does these two things have to do with this, is that the only Mr. Djelic knows?- I'm sorry. Namely, this is about reporting property, and the property is not something that can be accurately determined, at least here in Belgrade, enough to walk around and see representative objects, owned by individuals and seen that it could be determined if it had been wanted before, or those people who owned those properties, that they wanted to have been able to report that property. The essential reasons, in fact, for extending this deadline are that there was not a sufficient number of taxpayers, far, far fewer than what was announced. If you remember the discussion at the time of the adoption of this law, the minister has constantly operated on concepts -- a huge number of citizens, a huge number of citizens, a huge number of citizens! From the daily press, we learned that by June 12, only two people reported their assets that they value more than 20 million. Here, today we had a chance to hear Mr. Minister mention 200 taxpayers. Why is he saying this? For the simple reason that at least the press operates on terms and numbers that there are between 40,000 and 200,000 taxpayers with an asset greater than 320,000 euros, and when translated that is about 20 million dinars. Then you can understand the situation of the disaster and the fiasco of this action when, according to the Minister's words, only about 200 people have reported themselves. And why is that? I must say that in our opinion, our MPs, the main reason is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia lost credibility in the public, because one story, and it behaves differently; that this credibility is objectively lost, at the time of the adoption and application of the Law on a single extraprofit, because and then there were stories about several billion marks that would, like, get through that route, so then you saw when the official data came that this sum was 10 to 15 times smaller and that it was just far away from what the minister was saying. Of course, we were denied in this respected home and the answer to the question - are all people equal in this Serbia, were all those who owned the property bonds, or were they paying taxes on a one-time extra income, and here we mentioned whether the people who owned the house in Schiller paid extra profit? We asked, of course, the minister doesn't have as many times before, when he comes, we'll ask him, I think we should answer that, because if the minister is called on for transparency, if there is equality and equality, even if it's legal, then we should hear it from the minister whether it's factual or not. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at least in this part of the collection of funds in the budget, has shown one inconsistencies and the previous year, but it has gone a long way beyond that. You remember that story about the group G-17, the flour and the 1.543,000,000 dinars that were simply forgiven, the question is whether some of these people are owners of assets that exceed 20 million dinars, and they had to be subject to this law. Namely, two negative goals are in non-implementation of this law: it does not meet the objective of raising funds from the budget, and a bad business image has been created that has turned down many investors. In addition to this thesis, I must quote one of the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vlahovic, who, on the subject of the Extraprofit Act and on this law we are discussing today, said the following thing - early in the year, of course, commenting on the economic activity which, you know, is disastrous, that there is a business risk in place because of this decline in production. In addition, unfortunately, the killings of Mr Djindjic, the poor image of the business environment, according to the minister, also contributes to demagogue statements such as those concerning an investigation into the origin of property wrapped up in the battle against economic crime. All attempts to examine the origin of property in Serbia, including the Extraprofit Act, had weak effects or experienced a complete fiasco. When I hear the announcements of such laws, investors take away gas because they won't invest in a country where, in two or three years' time, someone will be looking into the origins of everything and everything. This is what the second minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks about this law, but also about this measure, and also about the Single Extra Profit Act. I think it's bad, because colleagues who spoke before me have confirmed and proved how bad it is to delete art objects from this law as part of an asset that goes into the value of 20 million. And, reading what the minister said, I must say that his reasoning is too thin, not to say anything. When it comes to the second law, the amendments and additions to the Transport Tax Act, there is a few edgecellence policies. In fact, this proposal on the release of taxes on daily and periodical press is not the government's intention or confirmation that there is, wants to meet people who work in this activity, but rather the government's desire to try to find a common language with the media that were at one point undisciplined after the suspension of the state of emergency and who began openly and critically to speak about everything the government has done both in an emergency and in an emergency. The proposed measure is a direct consequence of the main editor-in-chief's talks with the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and that is the fact of the situation. The government is making a political move in the run-up -- proposing a pair of ejcellence political measures so that the press, which is highly shaped in public opinion, will have as a good talker, co-workers and allies in the upcoming elections. I must say that we, as a parliamentary group of SPS, have proposed two amendments to this law: one is that the obligation to pay sales taxes should be exclusive equipment for babies, baby food, shoes and clothing, and when it comes to agricultural products, such as butter and cheese. I am saying this because the census of the Serbian population, done in 2002, when it comes to babies and children, shows a disastrous situation in Serbia. Serbia is, unfortunately, in a minus phase, and related to demographic policy, there is no strategy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and we simply felt that there was something to be done in the area. This law, i.e. sales tax, is good, I must say, which came out to meet people who print books, different publications, and what is tax-free. I must say, we SPS MPs have been looking for this since last law change. At the very end, I must point out that the serious problem of this government, and also of this country, will be the fulfillment of all the commitments in the budget. In fact, the government is increasingly reaching for political measures, this proposal will make the budget smaller by 600 million dinars -- and if we remember that a few months ago 700 million dinars were taken for the needs of the public service RTS, that 252.600,000 were taken for the purpose of implementing the War Crimes Act. If we mention several hundred million dollars, when translated into several billion dinars, which will bring Serbia's budget in line with this action plan and so on. Then you can see the dubiosis we're in. (President: Time.) ) We are fully convinced that the government will not be able to fulfil all obligations, and unfortunately, the Czech public will pay. Then it is not surprising to see the government reaching for more and more political measures. Why does the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia propose that pensioners give up their pensions to use the money for other purposes. The money will not be, and what little remains of the government obviously wants to focus on other purposes, because pensioners are now not as important as they were in 2000 when they asked them to, that children and grandchildren vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32287	The word has the People's MP Dragan Ljubojevic, let the People's MP Golub Rajic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the old practice has been repeated that representatives of the government or not present at the National Assembly meetings, or come, are chugging out what they have, being picked up, going further to make the citizens of Serbia happy. In this, in particular, the case on the agenda is a package of these tax laws in which, with the will and desire of Siniša Mitrovica, the law on counter-garnation has nothing to do with the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act. Minister Bozidar Djelic, an expert in the area of finance and economy, who is known to have made many Eastern European countries happy, Eastern European peoples and known for being banned from entering all countries where he has performed state functions, participated in some governments, was an adviser to some ministers, showed these laws what he wants and what he wants for both the Serbian people and the Serbian state and the Serbian economy. Both one law and another, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and the Transport Tax Act, for the third time, suffer changes, changes and additions. This says that this government and this minister have absolutely no vision or concept of tax policy reform in us. They act from case to case, when something happens in the field of tax policy, then they come up with new ways, models and methods, primarily to collect taxes from taxpayers in Serbia. We are aware that the state has to pay taxes from its taxpayers, from citizens, from business entities to finance, or to collect taxes, but not only to care, how and how they will charge taxes. First of all, since this ministry is called not only the Ministry of Finance, but the Ministry of Finance and Economy, it should also create conditions, that citizens and economic operators have the opportunity to pay those taxes. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, these amendments and additions to the Law deal primarily with the means of forced tax collection, the extension of the jurisdiction of the tax police, and thus we reach that famous member 135. Laws, i.e. Article 16. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, where the minister gives himself the right to have his body, as part of his ministry, tax police, receive the authority to force those who have committed a tax offence. As far as I know, such jurisdiction has only the MUP, or BIA and no other authority in this country should have had such jurisdiction, we should not have allowed any state authority, because if we make a precedent here and let Minister Djelic bring those who may have committed a criminal act in the field of tax policy, let's say Minister Lecic that he may be able to bring in, or some of his authorities, some agency in the wake of his ministry, some insubordination media, editors, journalists, and then he will remember some Ministry of Agriculture, and in some other ministry, that some authorities within these ministries have the same powers. Also interesting is the amendment of article 186. My predecessors spoke of the exemption of art items from this 20 million figure, but it is important to another change that says that, in accordance with Article 60(2) of this Law, the Tax Administration can assess the value of the assets shown in the property registration application and deliver the tax liability of the assessment solution. So far, as an imperative solution, it has been that the IRS is practically checking all applications, and here it leaves the possibility of a minister, or someone in the IRS, to assess whether or not they will assess someone's assets, so that we will come into a situation where those who are favorites of the regime can file a tax application, write a far smaller amount of 20 million, and that someone in the IRS will assess that it is quite all right and will not carry out the assessment of that application, and in other cases it will do so. It had to remain as an imperative solution, for the IRS to carry out an assessment of every application.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32289	The People's MP Golub Rajic has the word, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32290	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act and the Proposal for a Law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the Republic Roads Directorate. So three very different topics, and the discussion is united, which doesn't make much sense and can't be considered correct. Since the beginning of this year, the new Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, under which the Tax Administration manages the tax procedure for all taxpayers, and after six months of an emergency procedure, we are considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration, so that the tax procedure and administration are done, as the explanation puts it, as simple and more efficient as possible, both from the point of view of the taxpayer and the taxpayer. This is not the first case that, after the adoption of one law, we are soon to make changes and additions, although the harmonisation of this law with the system laws is necessary, especially with the Law on Publishing Law on mobile things entered in the register. These amendments extend the deadline for the submission of the property registration application and regulate the powers of the Tax Administration in the procedure following the submissions, extend the powers of the tax inspector during the tax control process, as well as the tax police in the pre-taste procedure. Article 2 paragraphs 3 and 4 should be deleted because the proposal for a new item 3 that deprives the taxpayer of a tax identification number is contrary to Article 29 of the same law and directly affects human rights violations. The death of the taxpayer is the cause of the prevention of the reconciliation of obligations, the reporting of data exchanges, or the provision of information at the request of the Tax Administration. Article 29(3) has already regulated these issues, and any repressive measures proposed here should be deleted. Also, in Article 7. Proposal or Article 93. The law should be more precisely regulated by the way in which the payment and return of the cash is made in the sale of movable items, i.e. immovableity. It is necessary to shorten the time limit within which the taxpayer must be reimbursed the funds achieved by the sale in excess of the amount of the tax liability. Article 16 should be deleted, as the proposed amendments to Article 135 of the applicable Law offends the dignity of the debtors, and excessive powers are given to the tax authorities which can be produced in bad practice. Tax reform and discipline cannot be implemented through permanent amendments to the Law and by extending the deadlines set for the regulation of taxpayers' obligations without (Article 19) establishing the reasons why the measures did not produce certain results. The draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act is adopted because of the adoption of the Financial Lising Act, in order to avoid double taxation and in the function of encouraging publishing - the exemption from paying taxes on books, magazines and press, which the Socialists have already proposed. But if that's enough, it's still exclusive textbooks, children's clothes and other things. We propose that taxes be released on butter and cheeses, in order to ensure lower prices for these products whose consumption in the diet of the population takes a significant place and spends a large part of the family budget in the very difficult social and economic situation of a large part of the population. Also, sales taxes require the release of baby equipment, baby food, shoes and clothing, also due to family budget discharges, but also to stimulate the increase of birthrights under extremely narrowed child care conditions. After granting a counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia on the task of Belgrade and the EPS at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as loans to cities, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad, the Government of the Republic of Serbia by emergency procedure, again at an emergency session, proposes a bill on the granting of counter-guarantee to Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the Republic Roads Directorate. The fact is, we're in bad shape, especially in Timoko region, and we need huge funds to get rid of it. This isn't about any gift or donation, and it's not about trust, it's about classical financial, commercial debt. True, this is from 1% on the annual level of regular, and 2% on the annual level of tight interest. This is once again proof that the government is making irresponsible moves to take new loans, not to mention war damage caused by NATO aggression. We've almost formed a new state or a state community. The question is how long it will last and how it will be when we repay the loan in 2006 or a few years later. What does that mean? This government is in debt with grace periodes and debts will be paid back by another -- is that good or is that correct? The Socialists believe it is better to use our internal reserve and budget opportunities and all taxes introduced. Another question arises - what about our funds in foreign banks, are they completely unfreeze and when will they be able to use them? The SPS MPs can't accept these laws. We have tried to improve the amendments at least a little bit, although our amendments, as they have so far, have not been accepted, but it is likely that the government will propose them for some month to amend and supplement these laws. Finally, to say that neither the adoption and adoption of these laws in the Serbian Parliament will contribute to Serbia's stability, but rather, the situation is becoming more complex, and debts with interest will bring back some other governments and new parliaments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32291	The word is a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, followed by a folk envoy, Zivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32292	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as many of you as you are in the O.R., are truly more than humiliating to the representative of any political party that should speak of these important tax laws, that a debate is taking place in this atmosphere. Members of the ruling majority do not know where the minister went, neither does the head of the parliamentary group nor his deputy, and all the questions we would ask will be answered. It's illusory that we talk more like this about something Djelic serves us. It is not laws that concern not every citizen, but rather, whether someone is employed, whether it works in business, non-economics, because last year, if memory serves me, and serves me, thank God, still well, on October 19, 2002, Bozidar Djelic said about the Assembly's speech: yes, we have certain taxpayers who remind me of Kafka and do not know where their case is, and therefore we have to adopt a new package of tax laws, this tax procedure and administration, to amend the Transport Tax Act, the corporate tax, and that this year we will have an extremely low rate of inflation, much higher employment, and that this year we will apply, in the right sense of words, his unique sales tax, which (in his) is the most just because we do not need to tax taxpayers by various archivers. Well, if we were living in the same arches, Bozidar Djelic wouldn't be so arrogant, Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic would not behave like this, the ruling majority would not behave like that and have much more hearing for people who are coming in with bills they can't pay. The accounts have been taxed, and those services that hit the most, and they've been mutilated like that, so no pockets and standard of our population. Bozidar Djelic is one of the ministers who very much likes to present some data for the purpose of comparatively, etc., but he is mostly talking in superlative about what the European Union serves him and the rates of movement of their social product and standards, etc., and he would be much better at it, both to you gentlemen, and to you, Mr Mitrovica, and to Pajtić and everyone who sit here, to look at our reality and what citizens are surviving today!- I'm sorry. We have one thing, I'd say, the technological precision of some categories in these amendments and additions to the law, but we don't have a basic thing that should change in the Transport Tax Act. In order to make real changes and to supplement that law, you had to, because we didn't even submit the amendment in that sense, because we know that you don't accept in advance anything from the SRS, to abolish the tax on services, such as electricity, because kilowatts of electricity after a new collection is 4.5 cents for those who are on average, or 10 cents for those who, God forbid, enter that red zone invented by Cori Udovici. So it's impossible for the poor citizens to remain at such high tax rates anyway. On the other hand, agriculture, autonomous activity, all that is needed to create some really real income, are still burdened with high tax rates. How will you now in the state where you have an authority that has been introduced, and here will now tell Mrs. Komic to finish, and I have only just reached this parapolitan authority of the Tax Administration, meaning that you are making tax payments in this anti-constitutional way and that Djelic is playing that poor man, Dusan Mihajlovic, so that instead of Mihajlovic, he is extorting evidence?- I'm sorry. How are you going to catch those who are evasing taxes when you haven't settled your ranks?- I'm sorry. Please don't give us any more arguments like this and laws like this and counter-guarantee like this, because last week, and I mean you DOS, with this country of yours from Montenegro, have ratified one again in a series of agreements, and here this one is coming now. He was ratified last year in that former federal assembly, and now the counter-guarantee comes to us from 76m euros. Last week, every Serbian resident is in charge of 70 euros again and so who knows how many times!- I'm sorry. (President: five minutes. ) Don't put that balance on our necks, because in the future Serbia will be ruled by Serbian radicals and we will have to pay back your debts and do everything we didn't want to do - because we know how to behave domestically and to distribute from the revenues achieved as necessary and how normal and household government works.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32293	There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Before concluding a joint principled search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 89 want to speak. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He doesn't want to. I am concluding a joint principled search on: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act; and - Proposal for a Law on the granting of counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Loan of the Republic Roads Directorate. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Bojan Pajtic, Veroljub Arsic, Branislav Blažić, Slobodan Janjic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Stevan Kesejić, Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta; together Marko Čulibrk and Joca Arsić; together Jovan Todorovic and Ljubomir Mucic; together Dusan Cvetković and Rade Bajic; together Rajko Baralić and Ljubomir Mucic; and Djordje Mamula. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The word has been issued by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32294	Dear Mrs Comic, honourable MPs, given the dynamics of our session and the interest of the MPs to conclude our sessions, I propose that on the basis of Article 137. Rules of Procedure, the debate in particular takes up to three minutes. I'm asking the Parliament to make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32295	I would like to put a vote on a proposal for a discussion in particular on the draft law to be conducted for a maximum of three minutes. For 76, against 40, the abstentions were not voted 59, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. Members of the 2nd amendment are jointly composed of mid-term MPs Marko Culibrk and Joca Arsic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32296	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as the chairman said, Marko Culibrk and I, on behalf of our parliamentary group SPS - Slobodan Milosevic, submitted an amendment to Article 2 with a proposal to delete Article 3 and Article 4. I will remind you that in Article 26 of the former Law, and now the proposal in Article 2(2) is proposed to change and to read: "PIB is a unique and unique number of natural persons, entrepreneurs and legal persons for all public revenues and is maintained until the tax payer's status has ceased. After Article 3, a new item 4 is added: If the taxpayer does not report all subsequent changes in the data in the registration application or does not submit the documents and provides the information required by the Taxation Authority within five days of the date of the change of the data, or the date of receipt of the request for the submission of the documents and information, the Tax Administration shall, by way of a solution, confiscate the taxable person assigned to the FIB until the date of fulfilment of the obligation laid down in Article 25. 1) and (3) of this law and delivers a copy of the solution to the bank. So far, sections 4 and 5 become pages 5 and 6." - Of course, since a new attitude is being introduced. Colibrok and I have suggested that paragraphs 3 and 4 be deleted in Article 2. So these two cited members are proposed to be deleted, on the grounds that by proposing this new attitude 3 that the tax payer is subtracted from the allocated FIB, contrary to what is already mentioned several times, by Article 29 of the same Act. Directly affecting human rights violations, for example, the death of a taxpayer is the cause of prevention to settle obligations. A change of data shall be reported, i.e. the provision of information at the request of the Tax Administration. Article 29(3) has already regulated these issues. So, the law has already been regulated and there is no point in putting this proposal back in place and being inserted as Article 2 and (3), respectively, in the proposed Article 2. If this happens what I was talking about, and the taxpayer owes the tax and in the meantime the death of the debtors occurs, the parent does not report that change, so that change has not been made as stated and requested in this article, his PIB will be deleted - so what happens to the debt?- I'm sorry. Is that how the state is going to be damaged? The debt remains and remains a debt for the taxpayer. Is that going to calm the heirs, whether it'll settle someone else, it doesn't matter how important it is that... So we didn't adopt three minutes, Zeljo, but it's five, I'm really sorry, I'm not gonna use all five... I just want to underline once again, a few of my colleagues have already talked about this, this norm that is provided for in this amendment and by supplementing Article 2 is completely unnecessary and is regulated by Article 29. The law and it's perfectly logical to accept. And I find it strange that none of the authorities, nor the government, nor the committees have accepted this amendment; it hurts nothing, it's totally fine and nothing will change in the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32297	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32298	Mrs Micic, ladies and gentlemen, I am really protesting that the minister, Mr Djelic, is not here, so that old practice does not happen again, before the end of this year, to be amended, based on amendments submitted by individual parliamentary groups, and particularly by the SPS parliamentary group on a proposal and by one and another law, first of all, one system law, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Otherwise, we have submitted this amendment, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, in which in a more precise way the FIB is regulated, or the tax identification number, and we have proposed, and in December, that, in addition to the natural and legal persons and entrepreneurs, they should have their tax number by which they are recognised both in the Tax Administration and in the business of a jury account. This was not accepted at the time, and now changes are being made to this law where the tax identification number is being introduced for entrepreneurs, or taxpayers who had their own codes before. The second thing that is very important here is that the fact that the tax identification number is kept until the end of the business means the one that has achieved that number and deleted, that with the change of seat, that is, the taxpayer retains this number until the end of the taxpayer's status. I am saying this all for the reasons why we have proposed to delete this item 4 which is added to this occasion and reads as follows: "If the taxpayer does not report any subsequent changes in the data and reports in the registration application, i.e. does not submit the documents and provide the information required by the Tax Administration within five days of the date of the change of the data, i.e. from the date of receipt of the request for the submission of the documentation and information, the Presiding Administration shall, by way of a solution, confiscate the tax payer assigned to the FIB until the fulfilment of the obligation of the 'Article 25 point'. 1) and (3) of this law." They are right colleagues who have spoken here, the death of a taxpayer, or a natural person as a taxpayer, can never allow him to respect the right that is prescribed for him by this member. We have a Article 29 that regulates that the home service of each local self-government is required within five days to provide the IRS with all data on the status change, i.e. changes in the taxpayer, and even in the event of death of a taxpayer. Secondly, what we heard from Minister Djelic on the Finance Committee, when we discussed in the principle debate, natural persons as taxpayers are in fact getting a tax identification number which is the same as the home number. You can't take away someone's home number that he acquired not by becoming a taxpayer, he got the birth number the moment he was born. The birth certificate was received in the municipality where he was born. Whether the activity is carried out in the municipality where he was born, where he received an identification number, or performed in another municipality, which means that with the status changes of taxpayers, he cannot be denied the tax number, and in the event of the termination of a business or any other activity, he loses that number. What, then, do you take away his activity? He's losing his taxpayer status?- I'm sorry. From that point of view, it is acceptable for the taxpayer if he does not submit the documents at the request of the Tax Administration, and from that point of view cannot be denied this number, he has criminality. It is even foreseen that the financial police become a parapolitan institution that can bring in a taxpayer. I think it is indeed from the point of view of the legal rules and this regulatory position which is proposed here is unacceptable and I appeal to the MPs to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32299	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32300	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Djelic, Minister of Finance, takes care of deadlines in his work. Even those deadlines, if one of the taxpayers overcharges the price, 0.2% a day. Here, I'm already experiencing, I don't know which way, that I have to explain my amendment, when the amendment was called to me by the President of the Parliament -- I find out that he was rejected by the government. I don't know why, nor did anyone explain it to me, nor did Mr. Minister find it appropriate to be here, so that here, together with us, he either refuses or accepts the amendments, which just confirms to me that when it comes to finance and tax policy, something really isn't right. One of these sets of laws that, right now at this point, confirms to me that the budget deficit is growing from day to day. This is also related to this Article 4. Proposal for a law to which I have submitted an amendment, i.e. on Article 67 of the Basic Tax Administration Act and the Tax Procedure. In that article, the tax can be charged, I asked to remain point 4) which reads: "in work, material or services, in accordance with the tax law and on based regulations". The proposer asked this bill to delete this point 4. It seems illogical to give so much authority to the IRS and the IRS, that even citizens can be brought to the hearing, that they can prey on their assets in an account, that they can take away their property, and the taxpayer can't settle his tax obligations on a regular basis, but with interest, etc. It seems to me that Mr. Minister has remixed the pots here, that he lost his compass because he acts like it's a sin not to pay the tax. It should be clear to Mr. Secretary that sin is not to report taxes. It's a crime, and one particular commitment to the state. But don't pay it if you don't have the funds, or let me say in this part the money and the effect you would pay for is not a crime. You don't, so what now?- I'm sorry. The state doesn't have the money to pay off its obligations to the citizens! It is a sign in some normal governments that the government should resign. Don't we?- I'm sorry. With us, this relationship is a taxpayer - a state mainly in one direction - that the taxpayer has every obligation to pay, and the state has no obligation to meet its share of the payment. So this Article 4 itself is in favour of the state's goal not to charge taxes anymore, but to get as much money as possible! This part confirms only one part of the boast you've had here so far, because I can see that two and a half years since you came to power, it's been enough for you to get through the tax regulations of apartments for you, villas, houses in Dedinj and around Dedinj! Now you've settled well! It's just that item in the law doesn't suit you anymore. You've made up your mind about movable property, and now you need your money, so now you've decided to charge taxes exclusively in cash. If the minister were there, at least to accept this amendment, I don't think he would mind, because even in much more developed tax systems, than our, and tax laws, one of this kind of tax pay is possible. However, it is happening in our Assembly and it is possible that, as you can see, the minister when it comes to his law is not in the O.R. That's what's going on, it's the fourth or fifth law, and I see that anything is possible with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32301	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32302	Mrs. Micic, the SPS Parliament Club will support this amendment, given that we have proposed the same amendment when this law is passed. And then we sharply criticised that the tax can be charged in labour, materials and services, in accordance with the tax law, and according to it based on regulations, and the only thing that is very important in this tax procedure and tax administration law, and what we can support is that all that is regulated by pawn law and where the state has to enable what it takes to ensure tax collection is that through this pawned law one of the priorities of the state in charge, taking into account all the effects that were negative in the previous period on the basis of the charge, that according to certain taxpayers have extremely high assets, and that they actually paid the most irregularly on the basis of pro-prosecution obligations. For these reasons, the SPS Parliament Club will support this amendment as will support all provisions of this law relating to the registration of charges through the right of publishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32303	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Ljubomir Mucic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32304	Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Mucic and I wanted this amendment to be more precise, because we think that the proposed solution is not particularly fair in relation to those who should in this way, as regulated by Article 7, settles their tax obligations, and we have suggested that Article 7 be changed and that it reads: "Occupied money and income from the sale of movable goods and immovableity of the Tax Administration immediately, and no later than the next working day be paid to the corresponding payment account of public revenue. If sales result in a higher price than the amount of the tax liability, the difference shall be returned to the taxpayer within three days and the interest shall be calculated in favour of the taxpayer at the end of the same period, in accordance with Article 75 of this Act. If a new tax liability, which has not been paid, has arrived within the time limit laid down in the previous position, will be settled from the remaining difference achieved by the sale of movable goods, i.e. immovableity at a higher price." Therefore, this is our proposal because the Amendment to Article 7 does not specify these deadlines to the end, so it turns out that the cash or money seized by the sale of immovable property can, for example, be paid at the end of 15 days or any other period, and thus the taxpayer whose tax liability is thus reconciled would be damaged. So that's one moment. The second moment is a matter of interest. If you in this way settle the obligation over that amount at the moment of confiscation of the money, then according to the Government's proposal, that is, the Ministry of Tax Administration is obliged to grant you interest at the end of 30 days on your funds paid. We actually think that we should simply respect the deadlines and that we should actually have one, and I would say, a correct relationship with whoever's in that way, and as it's supposed to settle his obligation here, and it's not fair that, on the one hand, the state charges the malts every minute of late in paying the commitments, and that here, in fact, it makes such a combination that at least a month has time to use someone's assets without paying any interest. And one more thing. When surplus income is made on the basis of the sale of immovable property on the basis of the seized money, why immediately this surplus value, i.e. the amount charged, would not be recorded in favour of that taxpayer on the basis of the next obligations it has here, but there are also foreseen some deadlines which essentially go to the expense of the taxpayer - and we wanted to actually support the essence of the proposed amendment. the proposed member, and to make more precise arrangements for each other's obligations in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32305	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Micic, so we have submitted amendments mainly to the amendments to those members who regulate deadlines so that it does not happen and that in a few months we have new amendments to these laws and this law to extend certain deadlines, or abolished deadlines. I was already talking in the opening part about the famous article 69. - at the end of December last year, we proposed that blocking the jury accounts and the collection of seized cash from a jury of the taxpayers should not be determined within five days, given the ability of taxpayers, that surely after that deadline and the blockade, once it has passed, the taxpayers will pay and receive funds on their jury accounts and the tax administration will not be able to make an emergency payment, which proved to be true, given that there has now been a change in that member. Also, through the amendment to Article 93 of the Basic Law, we have proposed that the Tax Administration, meaning all seized money and incomes derived from things seized, is paying immediately to the corresponding payment account of public revenue, and no later than the next day, so as not to leave the possibility of the Tax Administration for abuses and late payment of these revenues to the accounts - and we know what is the situation in the collection of public revenues and what is the situation in the register of the Republic budget. We also continued in recital 2 that the 30-day period for the return of more funds on the basis of the sale of the seized item was reduced to three days and that the taxpayer, after the sale of a certain item, would receive all the extra funds within three days, to be paid back to him and then to be charged interest in accordance with Article 75 of this Act. Because there must be a mutual relationship and co-operation and the same principles and relations between the Tax Administration and the taxpayer. So, that way we wouldn't consider all those repressions that are proposed by these laws and later amendments. Finally, attitude 3 is also important and is related to the reduction of the time limit for the return of those funds. Given that paragraph 3 provides that, in the case of, within 30 days, if a new tax liability occurs, the tax liability will have priority over the return of the taxpayer on the basis of the sale of this asset, we have proposed a new position 3. so that, within three days, if there are no new tax obligations or income, which are not subject to forced payment, that part of the remaining assets be returned to the taxpayer, provided that, within a period of three days, no new tax liability has been reached to the taxpayer which is not paid and that it will be settled from the remaining difference achieved by the sale of the movable property, i.e. i. immobility at a higher price.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32307	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. He's not there. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32308	Dear colleagues, Article 7 shall be intervened in Article 93. The law, pardon, Article 7 of Article 93 requires that a 30-day period which has been set as a time limit for sale, if there has been a sale of seized movables, and a higher price than the amount of the tax liability is achieved, the difference shall be returned to the taxpayer within 30 days, and the interest shall be calculated in favour of the taxpayer at the end of that period in accordance with Article 75 of this Act, that this period be reduced to ten days. This was our amendment, and when the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration were passed last year, because we think it is wrong for the state to take care only of its own interest, or of its own budget and when it is necessary to get the money into the budget, then these deadlines are, for example, immediately, when the taxpayer's account provides the funds, the payer carries out the tax order by the end of the working day, and at the latest within 24 hours of the receipt of the order, but when it is necessary for the taxpayer to return what is his, or what is left after the payment of the claim, there is a 30-day deadline. We believe that there is no reason for this, that it can be ensured efficiency, there is no rational reason, but that it intends to retain these funds and turn to the account of the one to whom they should return, or to the expense of the taxpayer. It is illogical for the taxpayer to charge interest if the taxpayer is one day late to settle tax obligations at a rate of 0.02% a day, and that the taxpayer can wait 30 days without payment of interest when returning the money. We have, therefore, already resented the legislator and tried to amend it with an amendment. That didn't work out then, here, again, we're turning our attention to a minister who, of course, isn't here and is not interested in amendments, we don't have a government response, but it's not bad to think about this, because when we're passing tax laws, we have to, first of all, think about the taxpayer, because if he's not there, there's no state budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32309	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32310	Ladies and gentlemen, at the very least, it is incorrect and rude that there is no Minister of Finance here or anyone from the Ministry so that he can listen to the MPs and follow our statements and possibly help some of his comments and suggestions to make this debate as good as possible. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 8 refers, in fact, to Article 96(1) of the basic Tax Administration Act and to the tax procedure which reads: "Current payment from the taxpayer's cash claims shall be made on the basis of the decision of Article 92(2) of this Act". To remind you: this article 92 speaks of forced collection, i.e. that the Tax Administration can, on the basis of the solution, make a forced collection of cash claims, non-money, then confiscate funds, sales, etc. Thus, it refers to the possibilities available to the Tax Administration if the taxpayer fails to make a timely payment of his obligations. Paragraph 2 reads: "The decision of Article 1 requires the debtor of the taxpayer to settle his debt with the payment account of the public income on the maturity of the claim". This now refers to the third party - the taxpayer's debtor. The tax administration's claim is now being transferred to the taxpayer's debtor and Article 92 also states that the decision on forced collection is being delivered to the debtor, but also to his debtor. Article 3 of the Basic Law states: "If the debtor does not make the payment, by maturity, the IRS will appeal to the competent court for the payment of the financial claim." This third position is just deleted by amending and supplementing the law, and a new position is added instead, which reads: "If the debtor referred to in Article 2 of this Article fails to pay, by maturity, the Tax Administration shall make a forced payment from the taxpayer's debt account, in accordance with Article 95 of this Act." This is a very large and problematic provision, here the fact that the taxpayer's debt and obligation is transferred to his debtor and now the taxpayer's debtor becomes obliged to pay the taxpayer's taxpayer's obligation to the tax administration. Also, this member allows the IRS to make a forced payment from taxpayers. We in the SRS think it's inadmissible, that it can't be done that way, that there has to be a judicial dispute here, in fact, we're trying to keep the solution contained in the basic law. It cannot be applied without a court dispute and a court case, such a measure of forced collection on the taxpayer's debtor. So, I repeat, it's about a third person, not a direct taxpayer, but his debtor. Let me just remind you that in practice this is technically inconclusive, that in practice, as far as I've been informed by the tax administrations, and the forced collection from the taxpayer is practically not done, because it's a very delicate and difficult job, that the IRS is avoiding it, and that we're not talking about a mandatory charge from taxpayers. I would ask the Proposer, if he were to follow all this at all, to consider this amendment, to accept it, so as not to make complications in the implementation of this law, in the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32311	Is there another application for a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP, submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32312	Ladies and gentlemen of the national emissaries, President of the SRS Prof. Vojislav Seselj warned the entire government in November last year, and especially Bozidar Djelic, what adverse consequences this law on the tax procedure and the tax administration will produce, and then said that the establishment of the Tax Administration as one special state body will absolutely lead nothing and there is absolutely no justification in our positive legal, until then, regulations, and especially because of the fact that the tax administration is being followed by the tax police that we have already established here, although the amendment took away the possibility that tax police officers are carrying weapons, it really has the role of a parapolic authority and thus behaves. We wanted to delete, in the name of the SRS parliamentary group, the possibility of such arrogant behaviour of the Tax Administration, for the simple reason that the way in which the tax base is defined is extremely repressive, because the method Djelic introduced by this law is something that does not exist everywhere in Europe, which you so often call upon because of the fact that so-called. The "indicative method" of establishing a tax base can be interpreted one way or another, depending on who is a favorite and who is not a favorite of the government. We asked to delete Article 9 which amends Article 97 of Article 3 of the existing Law which says: "If the debtor from Article 2 of this Article does not make the payment, by maturity, the Tax Administration shall make the necessary payment from the non-financial claim of the taxpayer, in accordance with Article. 99.-111 of this law." Then why do we need trade courts and why do we even choose, tomorrow is the agenda point, the individual judges in trade courts, and what will the courts do to you in the first place if the IRS is going to do what the court has to do to end a lawsuit, after obtaining an executive verdict?- I'm sorry. We do not see at all the reason for the existence of courts in Serbia, and otherwise their every purpose is lost because the courts are working on the order of the current government, the minister of justice and the power of the DOS oligarchy, and we can only imagine that it will look like a forced payment by the Tax Administration, or the perpetrator of the tax police, which will behave in accordance with this law. You can't stop tax evasion like this. As counterpart Arsic said, it is indeed a sin not to report, and as far as possible evasion is concerned, once again to return to that member from earlier, Article 7 on which the steel Janjic, who is not here, had an amendment, when already the minister in the assembly room in 40 minutes today dares to threaten certain taxpayers with criminal charges, we will have to warn him once more that he and how he is threatening to report for the fact that this law also contains something that has long since been deleted by the amendment of the SRS, which is, the payment of the interest of 0.02% on the unpaid tax, which, by amending our parliamentary group in April 2001, was deleted. The government then provided us with the answer, as well as the Legislative Committee and the Financial Committee in charge, said that the amendment to the SRS was accepted, that this is contrary, such a way of charging interest with the Bonds Act and that the daily interest will be harmonised with the rise in prices at a small or cost of life. As the minister then told us that inflation was planned for this year only 9%, when it would continue to implement such an anti-zaconic provision. I warn you that it is an illegal provision, both you and the minister, and that you, with interest, will have to return the money from the taxpayers, because that possibility has been erased. Let's find a tax system base law where there is an opportunity in any member to charge a interest of 0.02%, and then according to this amended Article 9, the tax administration is coming and to confiscate the immovableity and act in a way that is absolutely impossible to authorise it to behave like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32313	Is there anyone else registered for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary, Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32314	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when adopting these tax laws, tax rates and procedures in the tax administration, the SRS parliamentary group said these laws were not good and that Minister Djelic should coordinate the potential of taxpayers with the possibility of paying those tax obligations. However, Minister Djelic then jumped right into the drama and defended himself, went out on every amendment to the SRS -- he was very tough and convinced us that these were the best laws. But he's gone, he's not sitting here, I just don't think the changes he's making right now are serious. In fact, the SRS parliamentary group believes that these amendments in Article 11 proposed by the applicant to remove these organisations that carry out commissions of jobs, and related to the tax administration that it had previously entrusted them, are not sufficient. We believe that Article 11 relating to Article 104 of this Law must have an even more precise solution - to sell moving things through oral public competition. or by direct contract between the buyer and the Tax Administration, if the taxpayer agrees, if the matter is subject to rapid corruption, or there is a risk of a significant reduction in the value of that thing. To explain why the SRS believes that the taxpayer would necessarily have to be aware of that - of what the Tax Administration and the buyer achieve in public competition, he must be agreed and must agree. Here's an example: if the IRS, or its authority, were to determine that Lutra did not settle its tax obligations, what would happen? The finance minister would have to arrest the interior minister. I don't think that's right and we Serbian radicals are principled. We want everyone to do their job: to make sure that the MPs comply with the law, if necessary, in order for the taxpayer to settle his obligations, that the MUP, in accordance with its jurisdiction, extort this code. Well, then, if the minister puts himself in handcuffs, he should, but it should be a principle for other citizens as well. For these reasons, we believe that this amendment would have to be accepted, because in other things, unless such a rigid measure occurs, it must be done to take away movable things, that the Ministry of Finance and Economy is also not competent. It may happen that, for example, they take some things that are subject to rapid corruption or there is a danger of a significant reduction in the value of that thing. For example, they confiscate several of the heroines and they calculate and then simply, the taxpayer, and the state itself, lose hundreds or thousands of pounds of very high-quality meat intended for export to Italy. I therefore believe that the parliamentary majority should bear in mind, when voting on this amendment, that it is in the interest of both the Government and the Ministers, as well as the citizens to have this amendment of the SRS accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32315	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the beginning of this House, the SRS has been pointing to the numerous lacks of legislation this parliament has been making. It was in practice and it turned out that we were far from right. In fact, you can see that it is increasingly common for the government and this parliament to have to debate, and the government to propose amendments and amendments to certain laws because they cannot be implemented in practice. So whenever we get away from the Constitution, everything is insecure. As a result, the SRS considers that Article 12 of this proposal should be deleted, for reasons of being excessive and serious powers, if the tax enforcement officer is now to be placed in the role of one authority which is to make an extremely important decision. Imagine, when one immovableity worth 50 or 100 million dinars is to be assessed and you do not have the right, although the Constitution also provides for a standard that every citizen has the right to appeal, and a natural and legal person, in particular, to any decision of the state authority and to any solution, and to that conclusion by the tax enforcer. You don't have the right to appeal here, and you have no right to object to the conclusion when it comes to the tax enforcer. Imagine how he will now determine the value of a commodity, or immovableity worth 50 million or 100 million dinars? We've left it to him, and he's going to determine that, especially when it comes to politics, he's going to estimate the estate worth 50 million at 10 million. Can you imagine the legal consequences?- I'm sorry. That is why we believe that this bill, especially this provision, is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-08-0.u32317	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This would be the end of today’s work. We will continue tomorrow by discussing the amendment to Article 14 submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Stanko Kovacevic, Juhas Atila and Petar Misic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Pores Procedure and the Tax Administration (Substance in Details) was submitted to Article 14 of the amendment by Parliament of the People, Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
