ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33881	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 167 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Natasa Milojevic, Ratimir Svirčević and Bojan Kostreš, Miomir Tadic, Marijan Risticevic and Marko Petrovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, called Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33882	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there must be no delay in discussing the confidence of the Government. We want the confirmation of this Parliament's confidence in what the government has done in the past two and a half years to be as soon as possible, to make Parliament's work as efficient as possible and therefore based on Article 81. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia work on this agenda on Friday, October 31st, and on Monday, November 3rd, to be as effective as possible in the work, and I propose to my colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia to withdraw their proposal on trust with the Government of Serbia, precisely because of efficiency, precisely because of the senselessness that there are two proposals before parliament on confidence in the government. So to be as fast and efficient as possible, we work on October 31st and November 3rd.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33883	Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Dejan Michael, I would like to put to the vote a motion that the Assembly sits tomorrow, Friday, as well as Monday. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this motion by voting. For 138, against seven abstentions, they didn't vote 43, a total of 190. I find that the National Assembly has decided that we will be sitting on Friday and Monday. I give my word to MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33884	It is a little illogical that the position calls on the opposition to withdraw the government's motion for resolution. I have a concrete proposal on how to shorten this debate and end it already today, which is that the Serbian government ends the agony, resigns and calls for extraordinary elections to be discussed. It is the best way for citizens of Serbia to welcome the opportunity to live in a better and more responsible state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33885	The word is by MP Stevan G. Guduric, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 90 paragraph 3, it is said that time can be increased for debate, but I suggest, since we have been talking here for almost three years about why the government should leave or why it shouldn't have come, and on the street last year, and now they're talking to them again, so that they should leave, that the time for the debate is zero, that we should vote and end this agony in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33887	The imperative norm in the Rules of Procedure is that the debate lasts at least five hours. Therefore, your proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure and therefore cannot be put to the vote. According to the Businessman, there is a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33888	Dear fellow Members, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure to advertise Article 28, which regulates what is the authority of the President of the National Assembly. Among other things, the president of the National Assembly holds the chair of the National Assembly sessions. As you know, we have been here for the past few days to hold a debate on the motion to resolve the president of the National Assembly and the flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, and we have not been in a position to vote on it and we are unable to do so, because the Administrative Committee has not yet declared whether the chairman, Gordana Komic, has broken the Rules of Procedure or not. I believe that the elemental feeling for democracy requires Mrs. Micic to have one of his vice-presidents resign until we come to the situation to vote on the motion for her resolution, because we really do not know at this time whether Mrs. Micic enjoys the trust of this assembly and whether she is the president of the National Assembly or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33889	People's MPs, it's true that we had a debate and that's because I put it on the agenda. For example, in a previous meeting, President Dragan Tomic had such three initiatives, so he never put them on the agenda. Secondly, I insisted that this be discussed. On the occasion of the vote, the chairman has been authorised to set a voting day. You have the position of the Administrative Board. You're also a lawyer and you have the opinion of the Administrative Board. I ask that the Members of Parliament be given the position of the Administrative Committee on this matter. In the end, since we've learned a lot here in these two and a half years, I think this is a chance to learn a little bit of patience. There's gonna be a vote, anyway. Does anyone else sign up for a word about the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) We move to item 2 of the agenda: – I have already asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a proposal for a vote of non-trust. Here you go. You have to be careful.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33890	I reported on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group that, in accordance with Article 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest we work twice as hard on this agenda point. Ten hours. Since the government has prepared itself in these two and a half years, they have come to us for the first time, and will surely use their right to speak indefinitely, it would be their turn for MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to have the opportunity to speak as much as possible. I've proposed ten hours, and I'm asking the Assembly to come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33891	I am putting on the vote by MP Zarko Obradovic to discuss this item of the agenda for ten hours. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. For 177, against six, abstentioned six, did not vote 12, a total of 201. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to discuss this item of the agenda for ten hours. We're going to work on a set agenda. You have received a motion for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by 23 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, on the basis of Article 93. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 198 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal was submitted to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to deliver a list of registered MPs for the word. I'm opening a search. I ask, does the proposing representative, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, want an opening statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33892	Dear fellow MPs, ministers, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a proposal on 10 September to vote for mistrust with the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a date that's seven days before the election. Not knowing when Natasa Micic, who serves as president of the state, would, of course, counter-constitutionally call the elections, we submitted this proposal, and the case was to deal with this period when the election campaign is being conducted, but our goal was to prove to the Serbian government and the Serbian public that this government is not pulling those moves forward, which lead to reforms that can bring something good to us and that it is time for the government to overstep a little. However, we have learned that these days the committees of the National Assembly have been considering some reports of individual ministries, I don't know what number, and that the government's intention to use this session and this item of the agenda to file a report on its work, so I wanted to tell you in advance that it's good that you're prepared to file a report on your work. However, it could have been requested by the Assembly on its own initiative, it could have been done by some committee, at least by the Rules of Procedure, but then it would have to be another part of the agenda. At this session, you won't be able to file reports, you'll be able to answer the charges we're making to you. It's the same situation as when a school teacher calls a student to answer, so he can't really choose what he's going to say, but his teacher is asking him for exactly what he doesn't know. So, now we're going to question you, and you're going to answer, and you're going to go ahead and file a report and we're going to discuss a report on your work, unless the vote ends your term, which I doubt. The government was elected at a session held on 18 March 2003. At that time, Zoran Zivkovic was elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, elected vice-presidents and ministers, whom Zoran Zivkovic proposed as prime minister. That is what Mr Pajtic said, and as Mr Zivkovic said in his exposé at that time, the government of full political continuity and partial continuity regarding the human composition, compared to the previous government, whose president was Zoran Djindjic. The government of the Republic of Serbia is a continuation of DOS policy, which is devastating for the basic national, political, economic and social interests of the people. By conducting an alleged internal and foreign policy, the government has so endangered the elemental interests, that it rightly raises the question of how, where and where this government ends its mandate. There are no areas of social life in which progress has been made or levels preserved before October 5, 2000. The government, in accordance with the Constitution, as an executive authority, is obliged to run the politics of the Republic of Serbia, enforces the laws and other provisions of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution, cannot mean that we are forced to suffer the bad and devastating results of the government of Zoran Zivkovic. I ask my colleagues for some attention and silence, because I think the topic deserves attention, and in addition, bear in mind that we have had a lengthy and comprehensive discussion of Mrs. Micic's motion for resolution, that I have spent a lot of time with my throat, and that I have been on the myths that the SRS organises throughout Serbia every day, so that we can convince the citizens of Serbia that it is necessary to go to elections and choose the president of the state. The government of the Republic of Serbia, according to us proposings, must vote mistrust, in order to make a decision on its resolution, or Zoran Zivkovic, to remove vice-presidents and ministers from office, so as to leave the post, positions and the possibility of executive power being exercised by those who would at least have a basic respect for the citizens of Serbia. All the reasons why this government's mistrust must be voted out can be systematicized in several groups. These are: national, political, economic and social. First of all, the government continues to spread false expectations that the possible stronger link between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro within the existing state union, and daily concrete works show an even greater distance between them. Two, this government has no position, nor any programme to protect our interests in Kosovo and Metohija. You've got the resolution, you've got the Declaration. On three occasions, we discussed this and it is the basis for all negotiations with the international community. You did engage in a debate with the Shiptars, not with the international community. Let us remember that these two large issues for the DOS were still completely peripheral in 2000, because they were then sufficient only to change the regime in Serbia, i.e. to get DOS to power, so these problems will be solved on their own. This government, with promises like this, experienced fate as well as those six and a half billion dollars, which in September 2000 only waited at the border to enter our country. If the old regime goes, and DOS's power comes, here's the money, here's our donation, here's our industrial growth. If any responsible government had actually received as many donations as you have received, we would not have recorded the decline in industrial production, but industrial production would have been on the rise and at least 15%. These are some data, some accounts of those who understand and what I could read in professional magazines. Of those promises, of course, there was nothing. DOS thought one thing, the other said the other, and the third radio. The devastating results covered up or justified mostly by political heritage. After three years, you no longer have the right to rely on any political or economic heritage. It's gone back in time. You've had enough time to change a lot, fix the best, as you promised. Unfortunately, the situation is getting worse and worse and we are just listening to the echo of Serbian citizens, what they want, have referred this proposal to resolve this government. A new reality was imposed, as if DOS had never promised anything, and that what was required of it was a simple illusion. It turns out that the transition carried out by Mr. Zivkovic's government is painful, that the people complain more than they hurt and the more they complain, the government responds to even more difficult and harmful measures. Then, the government will be remembered for continuing to deliver Serbs to the UN tribunal to prove co-operation and to take loans or grants. We have warned you in time that co-operation with The Hague tribunal is not an unconditional delivery of all those requested by the UN tribunal, that the end of their request and the end of that list is gone, and these days, dear gentlemen, you have assured yourselves that when these four indictments arrived, for two police generals and two army generals. Then Mr. Zivkovic sent Mr. Mihajlovic secretly to negotiate with Mrs. Karl del Ponte, to sort of exclude the police general, Sreten Lukic, because he was cooperative both before October 5th and after October 5th. Regardless of the fact, co-operative or not, we Serbian worked against the handover of Sreten Lukic to The Hague tribunal, as we are absolutely against the generals of the military being delivered to The Hague tribunal, because after the generals, gentlemen, the colonels, the colonels, the majors, are already around 70 in The Hague. After them and all those volunteers, all those soldiers and police officers who defended Kosovo and Metohija. I hope that now, if you did not understand it in 2000, if you did not understand when you delivered Milosevic, when you delivered Sljivancanin, Radic, it was finally clear that there is no end to that list. It is particularly hypocritical of the government to organise a protest rally of members of police forces in downtown Belgrade, seeking and supporting Sreten Lukic not to deliver himself to The Hague, while police are at the same time forming a ring in Kostunica and Topcider, seeking General Mladic. There was no way to reach Ban's hill from a number of police forces. The way you arrested and took Colonel Sljivancan to The Hague is something history will record and that neither Sava nor Dunav can wash. This is the government where the National Assembly accounts. That's another reason why we're asking for this government's replacement. It's a government whose ministers don't have time to stop by the National Assembly. It is our honor and pleasure to see you here today. I don't know if you're in complete composition, I suppose it is today, that you didn't have more to do than come to hear what those who chose you and those who didn't choose you, but represent the citizens of Serbia here in parliament think of you. Of course, nothing is ugly that we will convey the citizens' opinion of you and all the results of this government. All governments are replaceable, all have some mandate, many leave before the end of their term, with it simply, we all have to make peace and responsibility should not run away. It is also the government whose Minister Goran Pitic took an oath only after three months of his duties, of course, in continuity. It is as much on the soul of this government as on the soul of the National Assembly President Mrs. Micic, but here we have this indifference, that three months in the Serbian Parliament Mr. Goran Pitic here represents Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be minister until he has sworn an oath before the MPs of the National Assembly. This is another DOS government in continuity that doesn't have a program, or any vision of the direction and the goal to which it seeks. Minister Djelic himself said, "This is a government that, I think, has a programme." It "thinks it has a programme" in the government's political functioning means it is incapable of acting independently without tutors and foreign officials. Instead of keeping accounts daily, the government invents news that draws attention from the growing and unresolved problems that burden every citizen of Serbia's daily life. There are no more groups, no more layers of the population of this country, which are not in any way endangered. This government is recognizable by general destruction, defeated and conceited experts who do not possess even the elemental knowledge, which I will at least prove to you, as experts and the expert work of the government are concerned later. Then, the government is a gravestone of Serbia's economy and economy, as during this government the largest unemployment, 970,000 unemployed, 21,650 companies ahead of bankruptcy, with a total of 468,000 employees, who can also expect to lose their jobs in a very short period of time. This is the government that recorded the largest foreign trade deficit, from January 1st 2001 to July 2003, it amounts to 9,658,000,000 dinars. The decline in industrial production was recorded for the first six months only this year 3.6%, by the end of the year it will be 5.5%, compared to the catastrophic year 2002. This is the government that's been conducting mob privatisation, enormous and uncontrolled borrowing, because since 5 October 2000, we've been in charge of the new $2.2 billion, all for consumption. That's what's worst, to be in debt and invest, to help develop the economy and record some industrial growth, promises to pay those debts back. This way we're just going into an ever-increasing debt crisis, which I don't know if one, two, three generations behind us will make it out of. These and other results of universal destruction suggest that this government is destroying both the future of this people and the state, and this must be prevented from being in vain later on and the thought of a job bordering Sisife's work. That's why, first of all, this government has to fall. This is the only government in Serbia's history that needs to entertain and burden the public with its affairs in the absence of any positive result. Every day in the black chronicles newspapers, some of the government's ministers are inescapable. Here, I promise I won't talk about your affairs at all, I won't touch it all, because the citizens had the opportunity not to think about what they're going to eat tomorrow, to have fun about all those affairs that came from the government itself or some camps against the government. But anyway, it's a big black stain of this government, because it failed to deal with those ministers who were subject to abuse of their functions for private purposes for personal gain, for the personal privileges of their own or their close relatives, and for conflict of interest and not to speak. A serious and effective fight against organised crime couldn't have been imagined unless this government collapsed. Ministers, Mr. President, Serbian citizens do not know who killed Zoran Djindjic, a report that Zarko Korac made for the government has not been published, the public has the right to know who killed Zoran Zivkovic. You can't convince us that you want to do the same... If I've made a lapus, it's because of the noise that's in the O.R., but I'm asking you not to lead the conversation until I expose the exposés, and you, Mr. Prime Minister, then give your word, that's what the Rules of Procedure lets you do. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: If I don't get killed by then.) Nobody's gonna kill you. I promise I won't, either. I haven't hurt an ant in my life. So it is inconceivable, above all, for the DOS majority and for this parliament, and this is an obstacle to the recent DOS majority, that it has not accepted the SRS proposal to form a committee of inquiry that would investigate all the circumstances related to the murder of Zoran Djindjic, and the proposal was that each parliamentary group should take one member and whether there is any commission that would be more impartial than that commission, which would be able to come to the truth. I am convinced that it does not exist, and I am convinced that what Mr. Korać did is not nearly as well done, as this commission would have done, and we would have put an end to how it happened in this country that a prime minister was killed at the entrance to the government. This is the government that has been striked, demonstrated and organised roadblocks across Serbia. For three years it has been going on, it culminated there in downtown Belgrade, trade unions are looking for a partner to negotiate and highlight some political requirements, which, of course, we cannot support, but we must tell them that for their rights we fought here in parliament when those laws were passed that hit them the most, which is the Labour Act and the Privatisation Act. We, politicians, MPs in parliament or citizens in the elections will be shot down by the government, and we support all other union requirements, because they, of course, have the right to do so. Usual polls suggest that more than 70% of Serbian citizens believe that all the troubles that hit them stem from the government of Zoran Zivkovic and want this government to go into oblivion. The voice of the people The National Assembly must respect and therefore this proposal may be the last chance for Serbia, and if the government does not hear, the Assembly must hear. If the government wanted to listen to what the people thought, it would long have called extraordinary parliamentary elections, a little different mix of cards, a slightly different composition of this parliament would have been, perhaps forcing us to some post-election coalitions, a programme coalition, perhaps to clear up the political scene, perhaps in parliament would have left only those political parties that deserve it, which are also numerous and which have their own infrastructure, which have a clearly defined programme. So many political parties that you have brought here into parliament, and yet to their leaders and members you have given some positions that are absolutely not theirs, that is what disqualifies you completely. I believe that the people did not want it by choosing the DOS in 2000; I do not condemn, respect the will of the people, all these three years in parliament we have respected the parliamentary majority and only in the name of our voters and in the interest of the citizens of Serbia we expose and present all the shortcomings of this government, which is why we exist. The government had no ear for it, held fast to its positions, and by force nothing can be kept and the most painless is that in the elections, when there is a change of power, when there is a dissatisfaction of the people, all of this is amortised and we allow the people to use their basic constitutional right to choose. Only Serbian citizens seem to have no right to choose, first the president of the state and then their representatives for parliament, then they think they should, and then the new parliament would choose a new government, where some of these existing ministers might be found, but it would have to be some other policy that would gain the confidence of most MPs. Multiplication of the administration to a number of agencies for everything and unwarranted budget spending is what this government will be remembered for. We're not a rich country, we're a very poor country, we have a constant decline in gross national income in the last 15 years, it goes on for the last three years and we have no right to multiply the administration and to pay out of the pockets of taxpayers some imaginary agencies. We don't even know how many of these agencies we've established anymore, or what they're serving, but that you've made your promise -- that you'll be thrifty and you'll have a thrifty budget, you'll prove it. If we just multiply the administration, and the production is constantly dropping, then I really don't know what everyone can expect from the Serbian state budget, what can educational workers expect, and health workers and civil servants, etc. This government will also be remembered for not being able to apply its laws, bad translation of radical examples from a direct environment, so it has to constantly demand a postponement of application or changes, returning to its pre-existing positions. You know how many amendments we have made, how many laws that could not be implemented in practice, and one of them is the Law on Planning and Construction, which is completely inapplicable. Here, go into any municipality, ask the officers if they know what they're supposed to do under that law, and everyone will tell you - we don't know. Citizens of Serbia, completely confused and confused, left at the mercy of local authorities to prescribe what amount of legalisation will be per square metre, which is what we had to solve here, rather than leaving some sublaws and local self-government. This is the government that will be remembered and which in Serbia's history will be on the side where the first communist governments, which have mass closed down, were found to have been a huge mistake after a few months. In Serbia's modern history, no government has so massively violated human rights in all fields of activity. You arrested 12,500 people in Sabela action, and after a while you let them go and nothing happened to anyone. You obviously don't know what one day is in prison. Some of you will have a chance to get acquainted with that. One day in prison is like a year on the loose, and all the things families suffer, what children suffer because someone is unjustly arrested, detained, and not to talk about it. The damages this country will have to pay to many who have been, without any need, and for no reason whatsoever, arrested. All the media is completely under control, and it's a terrible control of this government. A large number of means of intelligence and abuse have been used to create and place lies about political opponents. This government, through the media, judges and clearly dictates future judgments, in this government all arrests, all persecute, all punish. We're witnesses, since you're not stripping yourself of the television, saying and accusing you of running processes, presenting evidence, giving sentences. I must remind you, gentlemen. As an illustration, as an example of how the media is not being abused, and especially not by the state. I don't think it might be the best example, but since I had the honor of being a guest ten days ago on one RTS show, I told the gentlemen from RTS, you know, I'm on your TV for the first time. It's not like I like to take pictures, but I'm saying that because I've been Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for two and a half years, and I've never gone to that RTS as a minister. It's the same situation with Studio B, with BK TV and with Pink. You, on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and every day, whatever channel I turn around, believe me, one of you sits in front of TV cameras, and you just turn around talking one thing and doing the other. The government has misused the state of emergency to deal with political opponents, and when private criminal charges against individual members of the government followed, it immediately established immunity for its members and thus admitted that it was the government of ordinary slanderers. The case is Mr. Covic. My colleagues will explain the case, how you and why you established immunity to Mr Covic in the case and in the case of Covic against Dr Vojislav Seselj and vice versa. In the area of education and health, the situation is incomparably more difficult than it has ever been. I don't think I have to convince anyone, here, you have a health and pharmaceutical strike, and they know what they're looking for, they're looking for what you promised them. On the other hand, citizens are also looking for health care and there is not much to talk about. In the area of education, believe me, we could talk for hours and hours, and go back to the debate when we passed the Fundamental Education Act, but paintably to convey what we only hear from parents, who are humiliated and offended, because when their children come from school to later educate them, to preserve what is fundamentally respected in this country. If someone established the statehood of our country, if anyone fought for it, then it was St. Sava, and you in the first-grader completely threw him and Vuk Karadzic out. It's not an accident. It's not cartoons, it's intent. The fact that Mr. Minister of Education shares propaganda material in a primary school in Belgrade, the material of a sect of Jehovah’s Witnesses, whose member he is, is unforgivable. That's why the prime minister is reacting at the moment, fenced by such a minister and asked for his shift. That's why, if for no other reason, the prime minister here had to resign, unless he was able to control what certain ministries were doing, and that's what the government has to do, it's in her job description and it's written in the Government Act. There is a huge amount of material, evidence, and in the course of the debate, we will document and discuss it later. In this first address, I just want to state the basic reasons why this government has to be shot down in parliament. On the price of electricity, which hurts every citizen of Serbia, who is so raised as to bring about the existence of the average family, I don't think there's much to be said, I think you've raised the price of electricity ten times. That's what you're forced to do, of course, because you're preparing for the privatisation of the power system. You've been conditioned that this price must be high, and as much as it affects the total cost of each household, each of you does. I don't know if they pay you in those residences, whether the state pays for electricity or you pay for it yourself, but I guess you have a family, so sometimes someone complains and says it's unsustainable. If in the 21st century, dear gentlemen, we have to go back to the wood, and if I had to get up at six o'clock this morning to order wood, to keep my children warm, and I'm a people's messenger, so what do you think the people do, a common people waiting to receive a salary, or what those who are unemployed and who don't even have to buy wood? I didn't buy them either, I cut up the forest in Cosmai, some of the previous generations. I don't want to cause regret. I'm not sorry, away from that, but this morning on the bus, on my way to the Assembly, a woman swears out loud. In slippers and skirts at this temperature, and it appears to be a refugee, cursing the system, cursing Serbia, cursing this power, cursing what it cannot do, which it cannot earn for its children. People get away and comment on a broken record. There's more and more of them talking to themselves. That's where and where we, dear gentlemen, are going. The reforms of the banking and tax systems have also failed, there is material about it, and Mr. Djelic is not here, but we will prove it. And not only what we as politicians, although there are experts among us in this area, but what others who deal with this problem, who are the most prominent experts in this area, think. Let's see what Mr. Djelic's counterarguments are. About the Law on Planning and Construction, which is completely inapplicable, Mr. Schumarac, we're going to have one this small-scale discussion here. You're not gonna make it, I'm sure, that you're defending that law here again, and you're gonna have to defend it, because I'm going to give you a glow of information that's a complete failure, and that's one of the robberies you've prepared, and you're not going to make it. Because of this government and the National Assembly, the majority must forge the results of the vote. You simply, not us, but your majority who support you, forced us to. You and Mrs. Micic forced her to do it, and you made her mumble, even though the woman sees well, I can see she doesn't wear glasses. So he can see from his place what each of us is doing, who uses and abuses the card here. However, Serbia has no president either, and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia decisions no state body has the intention to execute. Everything since May 22nd here has been completely illegal. All the laws we've passed have been passed by an illegal majority. The Labour Act, as we have brought it, knows the general public thanks to Mr. Novakovic, who today did not, who voted from Thessaloniki, sitting in a hotel while drinking coffee. The lustration law, how the governor was elected and not to speak, and it shook up a lot of this political scene. It is clear to all of us that there were no 125 here in the National Assembly, let alone 126 MPs, who voted on it. But Mrs. Cory Widowly likes being governor. Mr. Djelic also likes her to be governor. Mr. Zivkovic approves of all this and therefore would have to resign as well. I know it's all your footage that came from, I don't know where it came from. I hear the president of Bolivia, Mrs. Korri Udovicki's uncle, had to flee Bolivia, so now I don't know where Kori Udovicki will run when she has to run away. You can't go to Bolivia either. I would like to remind you that this is the third proposal of the SRS parliamentary group, which is in line with the Constitution, and I would like to remind you of that because you have brought out in public a lie that you have made it possible for us and that this is the democratic progress and manifestation of your democracy, that we are discussing you. This is our constitutional authority. We can question you every month, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister, because you have been elected by this National Assembly, whether or not the MPs who ask for it voted for you. It is quite logical that your resignations are sought by those who did not vote for you, but as you can see, those who once supported you join us. So, total legitimacy and such is growing more and more. The first proposal was since 13 March 2002. I wish you'd let us discuss your trust then. It was then removed from the agenda of the First Session of the National Assembly in 2002, which took place on 27 March 2002. The event remained recorded after an unconventional procedure, that the proposal stemming from the Constitution was unconstitutional, using the excuse that it was a waste of time; the formal initiative, although it is absolutely in line with the Constitution, and with the law and the Rules of Procedure; that it is not fruitful; that it does not deserve the SRS to discuss its proposal, because it did not vote for the Government, and a series of ordinary phrases that prove the mental picture of DOS representatives and the understanding of democracy by DOS. It was then proven that apart from the familiar situation, when it comes to the conflict between Chad and the law, that the advantage of course always has Chad, although I now hear that Mr. Solana no longer admits it. He asks who this Chad is, who you once sent to negotiate with him and has made it a condition for Chad to leave the government, even if this government survives. The government, whose vote of mistrust is being tabled, has only confirmed that it is truly dangerous and fatal if the people and the state are led by a government headed by Zoran Zivkovic. It's tied up, and this part of the exposure is related only to some basic elements, so thesis. There may be fifteen of them that I've brought out, which in the debate, of course, will be further supported, and now I'd like to return you to transition theory, so maybe some of you who aren't referred to and taught. About the transition economy and our reform, and we are society in transition and we need reforms, but reforms that need to lead to positive results. The crisis is coming together and more and more of a surface of consciousness, of course under the assumption that the new government has not solved these dilemmas, the transition-related dilemmas and reforms. It is also about a variety of definitions and an even more diverse understanding of the economy and reforms. At the same time, it is not difficult to spot the lack of a programme with clear objectives, of which there is no deviation, fluctuations, stychical application of instruments and measures of economic policy, non-compliance with the principle of constitutionality, legality and others, and all with inappropriately strong pressure that this is about clear and comprehensive reforms. This, above all, at the expense of this economic part of the government, Mr Vlahovic, Pitic and Mr Djelic and, of course, always at the expense of the prime minister. As for the economy, as a basis for economic order and reform, the only obstacle to progressive change is old power. That's what you keep saying whenever someone asks you - why it's not better, why you didn't keep your promises, and you say it's the old government's fault, not realizing that you're the old government. In the context of modern changes, often called a peaceful October revolution or coup, as they taught us with all the elements, we cannot ignore the fact that the transition effect has left behind for almost three years. There are some partial but insufficient changes. However, the negative effects in industry, privatisation, politics, political organisation, ideology and ethics dominate, the untapped use of production potentials, factories, people, capital, etc. We were in Bora yesterday. We don't even know what's in Bora. We don't know what the reserves are, as far as copper ore is concerned, because we don't want to say it out loud, because we want Bor to go into exile, that someone else will take it. Holbrooke was coming to Bor right after the October 5th coup to measure Bor, and there's copper and there's gold, there's silver, it just needs someone to start using it properly. As far as the economy, transition and fate of our reforms are concerned, the current economic situation and the state of reform in the country should be assessed first and foremost. The current economic and social situation is burdened by the abundance of epicenters of the deep crisis. Our economic reality is congested by the tendencies of accelerated deterioration and chaos. Economic activity unfavourable, production and export in qualitative decline. The growth of the pay deficit towards abroad, the indifference of business entities increases, unemployment approaches millions, while the percentage of those who can normally live from their work decreases and speeds up, or breaks to a percentage of 10% of the population. The cell of those measures of economic policy carried out is doing more damage than good. The long-term measures have dropped, and the short-term ones are without targets, completely contradictory to each other, to the Stythian and to the unreal. Don't, Mr. Zivkovic, write, you don't understand, but Mr. Vlahovic and Pitic can write what I say now. Mr. Pitic is, among other things, a theorist, so he'll understand what I'm talking about. The elements of the economic and political crisis are increasing, while the country is at the same time hardening in the last place in Europe according to almost all regular indicators. Believe me, I wasn't having a hard time preparing all this as an exposé. I've had to read a lot of books, a lot of pages of professional economic journals, so I can argue here, and I believe that most of them, I see by reaction, don't understand, but if they understand those to whom this is directed, it makes sense that this is the way I'm talking about it. Those plastic examples from practice will come in later. There is no theoretical analysis and experience of practices that can justify the unsustainable political marketing of authorities, the whole of phrases and spills, declarative populist definitions and campaigns that Serbia is on track. The fact that Serbia is on a good path you can no longer explain, and that slogan you had to somehow change or say -- we thought we'd succeed, but here we admit that we can't, we're calling elections, so somebody else might, we just want good to our people. That would free you from a lot of responsibility and abolize you from responsibility. What about promised, announced and completely imminent reforms and qualitative changes? The new government has shown all its inability to achieve economic and social reforms, to improve the socio-economic position of citizens, increase employment, speed up the investment cycle, and not only speed up, you have completely stopped it, and by privatising the problems of the economy and development. Unfortunately, privatisation does not show and there is no indication that we will benefit from it. Privatization yes, but the way you conduct it can't give the effects that even you expected, and about our expectations, as far as the effects of privatisation are concerned, and not to mention. Overcoming political miles and individuals in it have demonstrated only the unseen and unheard ability and will for manipulation and affairs, with an attempt to preserve power at all costs. The abundance of promises, without any justification or help, not only become cosmic humor, but accumulate the problem. Instead of reforming the flowering subjectivism of individuals in and around the government. The DOS politburo and the authorities of individuals affirm the essence of governance that opens up a new phase of manipulation and primitiveness. To begin with, DOS has kept its name, although it is not opposition, party leaders remain in their seats, although they have been elected to state positions and each party "insulates" its people in management, economy, education, diplomacy and it is of course deserved, by who knows what arches and your internal agreements, and each party and almost every leader is identified with democracy, reforms, influence in the world, country in general. Without them, everything will stop, everything will fail, everything will go back to the way it was, and that is what you fear the public of Serbia. If we leave everything goes back to the way it was, retrograde forces come and after us flood. The public scene is full of affairs of all kinds and today's coalition partners are using all the means and all the ammunition that each other is wrong, accusing each other, and there is no recovery of the economy and standards. As you play like those medieval palaces, the people have no bread to eat. With DOS leadership, which has turned into a kind of politburo, plenum work, with its speciality of horns in a bag and the desire to control everything, there are no gentlemen of stable life, no rule of law, no reforms and no democratic processes. Every reconstruction of the Serbian government has become pointless because it is not an asset that implies any economic impact or political and socio-development stability. Is this about a new invention or an exclusion from the game, a mastering strategy, instead of the efficiency of governance? There's a big difference between these two notions, whether you have a strategy and whether that strategy is effective. The story of reform and change continues. There are a number of attempts on the scene, but also an illusion in efforts to show and show a turn towards getting out of the crisis. We didn't have a number of official versions of reviving industrial production, improving agriculture, and we didn't have any laws here in Parliament relating to agriculture, the growth of social products, increasing exports, retaining a real drop in personal income, purchasing the power of pensions, social giving, unemployment or employment, as you will, stopping the drop in living standards and others, is not based on exact indicators and government estimates of the results achieved. At the same time, mistakes contained in reform quasisystem changes are covered up. Society is in a devastating and difficult cramp, imposed as an imperative, and avoiding reforms is a form of governance. Now related to the government's own experts and the government's expert section, which was estimated to be zero on the expert political basis. From economic policy, I'm just going to quote something, someone who, in my deep opinion, is absolutely right when he talks about experts, because citizens need to know, and those who don't do science, what makes someone an expert. Not that he calls himself an expert or someone who's not competent says he's an expert, but scientific works and what's behind him. In this economic policy, it writes, among other things, that certain research projects are being done for the needs of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad. Almost everything is realised by the Economic Institute, whom Minister Pitic was the director. These projects include hired beginners who are barely able to do so, says this writer. In one situation, he says, they couldn't get around the Faculty of Economics, but he's also the head of an unoccupied professor's colleague, while the head of the entire project was Dr Nebojsa Savic. Professor Kovacevic refused to participate in a research project for the ministry's needs, however, because he could not accept Nebojsa Savik as his boss. Calmly, but without twisting, Professor Kovacevic also reminds of his earlier statement on Dr Goran Pitic, who dealt with world economic history rather than international economic relations. So, esteemed presidents, perhaps you, Mr. Pitic, and you are an expert in world economic history, but for international economic relations, in the opinion of this respected professor and your colleague, you are not, which is, you will admit, a criterion for that. So, I don't dispute that you're an expert in some area, but not in this area you're in. This is an illustration of what an expert is. For Dr Miroljub Labus, the former minister of economic relations with abroad in the federal government and its vice president, he says he has one broad economic education, but he taught the political economy at law school, i.e. the basics of the economy, and there is no work in this area. So he didn't deal with any problems he accepted at the federal ministry either. I wouldn't go any further, it's very interesting this article. Among other things, Mr Kovacevic asks both the morals of Labus and Dinkic, who have agreed to be ministers of the problem they have never dealt with in their life. Pitic, as far as I know, only at a counseling session in Petrovac, six or seven years ago, had work from that area, which went so unnoticed, no one took it seriously. There were no serious studies when they conducted the liberalisation, or who was called from the profession in the area. So this is a small illustration and a reflection of what an expert is, not arguing that maybe one of the government's members is for something and an expert. For what you pretend to be experts, you didn't and you didn't prove yourself working in it. The assessment of the results of economic policy cannot, in our opinion, be a simple set of assessments of the possible positive effects of the ministries, although I have worked very hard to find something positive and to present it. It was my desire to make some kind of comparison, put what's good, what's bad in two hours. I almost didn't find what's right, except you're really well-trained. Economic growth is modest, there is no significant inflow of foreign direct investment. Companies are not restructured, unemployment is high, and the grey economy, the debt to the world is large, private sector, to which you rely, is slowly progressing. We have already said what we had about the external trade deficit, and Serbia is still a poor country, with no particularly favourable prospects in the medium term. The leader of the Balkans will certainly not become a few more decades, although you promise that we could do it for a year, two, three. We don't have to lie to the people. We have to tell him - the transition is in progress, the transition will take maybe 20 years. It must be good to last for many years, because much less pain, slowly solve problems. You are aware that you only get one mandate and that in all countries that are in transition, the first government must leave quickly, hasten to do a lot of things, and the damage will be very difficult, whoever after you can make up for it. This is the government that has been most praised and at the same time most challenged. What have Serbian citizens experienced from this authority so far? First, the creation of an illusion of a new favourable economic moment and a better future, anarchic and unprofessional management of the area of finance. I'm sorry that Mr. Djelic isn't here, so I won't, until he shows up, talk about everything I think about him and about the economy and agriculture that's completely failing, and since there's a complete robbery of villages, who knows which way. An unfavourable criticism of the government's impact, due to the maintenance of extremely unfavourable key economic tendencies, is an attempt to save at least something, that as a society and economy at least stay on our feet, that we finally start the necessary reforms, sustaining and deepening the problems, directly talks about the ability of the ruling political and managerial elite and so on. An experiment of new authority, but this is only in your vocabulary, not in action. The new government is in a difficult crisis of inter-coalization relations, this is clear as soon as this point is found on the agenda, conflict of group interests, action inability to implement adopted, savagement of subjectivism and arbitraryness in a series of complex social issues and problems. It is as if representatives of the new government are racing into inaccuracy and arbitraryness in their behaviour and functioning. It is urgent to establish a new economic policy which is not dependent on the relationship of forces in the new government, so we must have a clear course, clear objectives, a national strategy, which will represent optimal economic, social and developmental definition, which stems from our reality and strategic interests in relation to the modern flows of market and other basics of modern and developed societies, negative experiences of post-socialism countries, but above all from widespread requirements for wider reform procedures. At the same time, in ways of implementing economic policy measures, they must avoid arbitraryness and willfulness, unprofessional intensity and exclusion, mastering practices to impose so-called "experience" instead of expertise. a self-reclamer experiment. The story of the so-called transition recession; how it is possible to talk about the transition recession, when the transition is not even in the announcements and projects. An attempt to justify non-existent arguments is part of the work, and the failure to deliver pre-election and any later promises, a new drop in a limited volume of production anyway. The government found that the economy operates with 25% capacity, in conditions of uncontrollable growth of the balance of payments deficits, a decline in industrial production, anarchy of diversifying prices, monopoly products and services, etc. In the first months of this year, unfavourable economic results are so dramatic that all black thoughts and worst pessimists have been defeated. If anyone was pessimistic about this government and its effect, then it was us, the Serbian radicals. Believe me, we're surprised too. Self-proclaimed experts from the ranks of authorities are personifying investments. In the sphere of economic policy, a social layer is formed that rises above regular institutions. There is a general failure in the work, with concrete "results and effects" in certain areas of economic policy, which are inexorable, and this is obvious if they look objectively and carefully at the naked figures without political cheerleading. First, there is no overall annual or long-term economic policy, there is a set of parameters, i.e. a desire that corresponds to opportunities and needs. Furthermore, the existence of a booming grey economy, of bribery, of corruption, as one of its current parts continues. The growth of social gross product is a synthetic indicator of the performance or failure of economic policy, and we know how we stand with the social gross product. Many economic reasons suggest that the results achieved by economic policy for the last two and a half, almost three years, represent the absence of a vision of the future for next year, the years to come, as in 2003 it is 5% lower, for 2004, there will be another minus 5% for 2005. The decline in production becomes the main real impact of the new government. It is only with increased production, by reviving our industrial enterprises that we can say that it begins the process of affirming the economic foundations of privatisation, and there is no word about reviving production, no indication of how we are going to get there. The trend in industrial production, the current level of production in Serbia for seven months this year only points to the elemental state, the decline in production compared to the first seven months of last year is 3.1%, this year's July production is less than 20.2% compared to the average production level achieved between 1996 and 1998, so before the bombing. The assessment of the Federal Bureau of Statistics concludes that industrial production was higher in 2002 by 2% compared to 2001, compared to 1998 by 12.8%. In January 2003, industrial production decreased by 21.1% compared to December last year. Where are the excuses for that and what's all this about? The statements -- "that the state of economy and the course of dinars are stable" -- which you say on a daily basis, fall into too many pink statements by responsible politicians, as you should be, which do not correspond to reality. Unfavourable results in the economy, especially in production and export, after two years of government change, two and a half, almost two-thirds of the mandates, cannot be justified by accusations of earlier or earlier regimes, where some have been involving the last 10 years and some over the last 60 years. The depth of the economic crisis in which the new government has brought us also shows the mutual internal debts of businesses and other business entities. There was no regulation of each other's internal debts in the right way. There has been an identification of cash flows in Serbia with a will. Some legislative changes, such as the abolition of the PDO and the transition of payment traffic to banks, cannot solve this problem because it is an expression of the state of economy and the absence of adequate economic policy measures. There is a confusion in payment traffic between business-production entities starting on 3 January 2003 and threatening to bring complete chaos and increase mutual internal debt. We estimate, from the Serbian Radical Party, that this, otherwise "necessary revolution" in our payments, will bring huge losses of dozens of billions. The trade with abroad deserves special attention because the balance of payments deficit in 2000 amounted to $1,300,000, representing 13% of the social product or 43% of the country's current foreign exchange inflow, Serbia's external trade deficit in 2001, exceeding 2.5 billion US dollars. The Federal Bureau estimates that the foreign trade deficit in 2002 is $3.8 billion and that's a record for us. But that fact itself is alarming enough, not just for us today, but for future generations. According to other data, the deficit exceeded $4 billion, the deficit in last year's world trade is $4.45 billion, representing an increase of 37.9%. Let us mention that there is no agreement on how to iron, as Mr Djelic said, this one for our conditions of a very high external trade deficit. The monopoly on oil imports should certainly be talked about. It is one of the most controversial moves of the Serbian government, but that will be explained to us by Mr Djelic and Mr Prime Minister. Now what hurts most is everything, which is the economic policy of unemployment and social decay. What is common to all aspects of economic policy in the last two and a half years is about the conclusion that it is projected and implemented or at least seen by concrete empirical results in a catastrophic impact on social policy and social development. If you can deny me, I'd like you to convince me otherwise, but this is a data that's visible to the naked eye and we don't need any research or data from the Bureau of Statistics, which deals with it. The fall in standards is obvious and empirical and consequently demonstrated, regardless of the ambition of statistics to prove otherwise by the change in content and quantity that contains the cost basket, which for you is an indicator, which contains some 60 products, but there is neither the price of utility nor the price of electricity, nor clothing, nor books, there is much to be had. It is clear to economists, however, that a good part of the citizens is already statistically dead. The state budget and social funds gather with us two-thirds of the national income, so the government is asked -- how long will the state budget and social funds occupy two-thirds of the national income? The state has continued many functions from that era of communism, related to police, military, education, science, health and culture, justice and diplomacy, social and pension funds, para-state institutions, I mean, above all, commercial chambers. Therefore, it dominates the state distribution of products, state distribution instead of partial or significant market rationalisation. Those who receive salaries and other revenue from Serbia's budget must know that due to their policy of strict respect for budgetary discipline, regardless of strikes and pressures, there will be no payment outside the budget framework, it is said. It is now obvious that long-term and short-term measures have fallen, as well as the application of appropriate instruments and economic policy methods in this area. Economic policy has produced high social differences with broad social implications. It also resulted in social tensions, with specific public dissatisfactions, numerous strikes, civil disobediences and a series of other forms of individual, group and wider reaction, public dissatisfaction. Unemployment rate growth, unwarranted layoffs, undermining, unwarranted, low employee earnings, symbolic social benefits, do not let any of the social assistance have to survive, pension payout problems and others prove the absence of social policy. In the area of pay, the policy of collective bargaining has been abandoned, little now to comment on what we have done and what most through the Labour Law have brought. There is no genuine collective bargaining, there is no social dialogue in which it shows its function as regulation of the labour market, so that the modern form of state-of-the-Birocrat farce around this institute is dominated in practice. It's important for the unemployed to be at home when they call him from the Labour Markets Office to check whether he's here or not, that's how it works out under our Labour Law. Social hopelessness, decomposition, all of this has contributed to the false collective bargaining between the unions, where the government has granted them the role without any official and real opportunities. It's at the expense of those unions of yours that you chose as representative unions, although we never understood what that meant. Minimum earnings in 2003 - 4.350 dinars. The deal was reached by the Minister of Labour and Employment with the top three representatives, we do not know which union, with the Union of Employers of Serbia, and on the fate of the work and life of those employees who receive minimum earnings, and on 15 January 2003, it was around 36,000, according to the ministry's data. It is surprising that collective bargaining is not supported. Collective bargaining, not with those trade unions that the state has inaugurated for the representative institutions of developed economies and the basis for regulating labour-capital relations, not just developed economies and high technical -- technological basic production. Under the conditions of implementing the existing Labour Law and announcements and amendments to the Employment Act, trade unions have been expelled from economic, social and equal scenes in those enterprises that are privatised in Serbia. The example is former SARTID or as US STEEL Serbia is now called, that's right. Economic policy in this area has suffered a complete collapse on us. Despite the fluctuations, the tendency of a continuous fall does not stop. The poverty is achieved at an accelerated pace, decomposition ends, and official statistics insist on proving impossible, according to realistic indicators and life, the standard is growing and there are no other changes in the redistribution of wealth. Now, if any of you can explain to me how it's growing the standard of living, I'll vote first for this government to survive, but it simply can't be proved either by empirical, or by exact data. It is about phenomena that, by bribery, corruption and other illegal transactions, create a new layer of owners of all kinds of capital. A new layer that is increasingly being built and imposed as the ruling, economic power in Serbia, here, I'm telling you now -- I'm not going to deal with the names of those ten people who become owners of total capital in the country. You have listed them, you have called each other, who has a godfather's bond, who has what he has bought, who has made it possible for him to buy, who was the minister of the tender commission, whether Vlahovic, whether Djelic, what is related to him, is the one who took the "Broedyard", who is really behind the capital that is reportedly being brought from abroad, whose capital is the one in the country, and who privatises everything and takes it, I will not mention that Markovic from the Surcin anymore, I am sick of these names and nicknames, all in this country have become known by their nicknames, even the Serbian Government ministers have some nicknames and those close to people who are not really compared to the political scene. But let's get back to the social threat in recent years and not everyone felt the same way. In addition to the economic wealth of one layer in the area of the irregular economy and the distribution itself, it provided certain activities and employees in them with the highest non-economic position in the longer term. It was good to be employed in production, let's say, electricity, gas and water, but it was always like that, then in financial intervention, that's the innovation, because it was maintained very high levels and the regular dynamics of paying off net wages, which is not the case with other actions. This is just one or two business activities. While 450,000 workers have been actively receiving salaries for several months, 1.2 million workers work in non-leading companies, 500,000 workers work in companies for which a proposal to launch bankruptcy proceedings has been submitted, etc. Companies that regularly pay monthly earnings in continuity from one year came down to a percentage of 4.4%. Where are the measures that will stop or prevent this, where are the tax breaks, where are the investments and more favourable conditions for economic development and for strengthening the small economy you rely on, which you think will employ the largest number of those who have lost their jobs? Eight to ten percent of the population is considered rich, and the rest are still rapidly impoverished and approaching all the despairs of total poverty and with no prospects for improvement, and worst of all, when citizens are left without perspective, and that is the policy of the new world order, then citizens go into lethargy and you count on it. You count on this and these presidential elections, i.e. that you will completely demotize the citizens to come out, which I don't think you will succeed, because here today in Kragujevac at 1700 hours at a rally that will hold the SRS with its presidential candidate Tomislav Nikolic we will explain to the citizens that everything depends on them and that they should not fall into the lethargy in which you want to introduce them. It is an amazing rate (mitting at 17.00 in Kragujevac) of increasing unemployment this year. The government has achieved almost impossible, turning Serbia's economic policy measures into a state of inability to employ a working-able population. Given the current stage of the application of the Privatisation Act, it is clear that monetary rather than production capital is given absolute advantage. The establishment of the low starting price of auction privatisation is based on principle - first lay off workers or one major part-employed; Mr. Vlahovic, that's right. The decline in income is evident, the poverty zone is growing, significant revenue from smuggling and that part of the grey economy that is manifesting itself more and more, is getting smaller. The delay in pensions, social aids and other promised payments from this area of economic policy is toying with the patience of Serbian citizens. Real resources for naked existence are increasingly uncertain and smaller. The poorest layers of society are becoming increasingly endangered. Social uncertainty also stems from the inability of the regular and real functioning of the social security system. Everything, and here I mean all kinds of social protection, child protection, the protection of people with disabilities and fighters and others. The failure of the functioning of the existing pension system and the disability insurance system, i.e. social policy in general, as well as other active measures - and these active, of course, under the name of the alleged, because some measures exist, but in order to be active, they have to lead to something - economic policies in this area that have completely cancelled. Positive newspapers don't see each other in this sphere in due course. There is no successful transition, no radical and economic reforms without a successful reform of social policy, but also a very successful economic policy in this area. To make it radically better, citizens will have to vote for the SRS. You radically better can't do it at all. The increase in the cost of life continues its unsustainable quest to drop real purchasing power. There is, Mr. Zivkovic, for as long as you've done badly, you'll make your arguments after I've put it all out. You'll have to plan to stay in parliament all day. The average January net earnings in Serbia amounted to 9,478 dinars, with about 18% lower than in December 2002. A salary less than average was received in January of this year by only 54% of employees, with less and less family employed by two saying that statistics must recognise the norm of standards. If anyone can live off this 11,000, I'm ready to take a training course on how to do it. In view of the fact that utility costs, i.e. the real cost of life, are not subject to statistical monitoring, conditions are created for the statistically hidden poverty and inflation of the price of goods. For the heating of apartments in January, it was necessary to cut 1.18 earnings if remote heating is used, i.e. 1.35 salaries for the use of five kilowatt-hour thermoaccumulators. The average January consumer basket of 16.938 dinars required 1.79 average salaries or 2.34 pensions. I think this data itself says everything, that they are indisputable. I didn't make them up, I was just following up on what statistics say and it's talking about who can and what who can't. Unfortunately, how many who can't do anything anymore and who can't even live naked. Various forms of generous solutions, such as your 24 personal income or certain compensation for each year's service, have proved to be humiliating, inefficient and offensively low, and we warned you about these laws here. Problems culminated with war fighters, home status for carefree children, old, disabled and others. They're closing the so-called. People's cuisine, more and more of those who need these folk cuisines. There is no consistent social policy or promised new life. The social position of most of the layers is getting worse, pensioners, children, social support carriers in this particular front, as if the measure of social tolerance shifts towards total poverty, i.e. to madness, and yet under the allegations. The social bomb's been timed, and it's about to explode. We are entering a period that will characterize the expected increase in social movements, strikes and other manifestations of mass dissatisfaction in all cities. Here's Kragujevac ahead, so today we're going to bring this information to the Kragujevci and explain why they have to go to the elections and why this government has to fall, if not here in parliament, and then in the elections. In the context of unresolved problems in the social sector and helping according to the principle of solidarity, social policy is affirmed which cannot without respecting the fact that today, this is data from 9 March 2003, in our country lives more than 350,000 refugees and 235,000 displaced persons, and you, we remember, promised immediately in 2000, as soon as you came to power, all of them will return from Kosovo and Metohija to their hearths. All it has to do is drop the previous regime. This social sector has remained out of the sight of state intervention. To address this area of the social sector, we can no longer count on the more noticeable involvement of humanitarian organisations or donations by governments of certain countries and you know it very well. While there was a donation to these humanitarian needs, something could have been done on this issue, the donation is becoming less and less, so budgets will absolutely not be enough to solve this problem. As for the union, as a promoter of the economic policy of social tensions, there are multiple centralities, divisions, envys and disputes over a small number of memberships, and you have contributed to that as well. Minister Milovanovic, as a former union official, is not there for Milovanovic, the trade unions have almost passed or are now passing all the googogues of party secessions, personal leadership ambitions and membership games. We have some trade unions becoming political parties and it also becomes a nonsensical non-recorded in trade union practice in the world. Union co-operation as if it does not exist, but it is a function of trying to portray other cetrals as liars, and that only they represent authentic union interests of employees and unemployed. That's what you coordinate very well, trying to make one relevant, and the other very marginal and to argue with each other, because then it's easier for you to communicate with them and to respond to their demands by not giving up. So, instead of co-operation that is of interest to membership, it comes to the untruths and negations of rival unions and their activities. The latest trade union vigils, those around the Labour Act, the Employment Act, the Tax Laws, changes in the privatisation rules, as well as the increase in earnings, i.e. the application of established rules and norms, demonstrated the true essence of common mobas, inappropriate practice on international meridians, and especially in those foreign trade union leaders who try to make such methods up to the promises of material and financial assistance, paid residents and seminars abroad, the scholarship of union leaders' children, some, of course, to our union reality and social reality. You would have to, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, run such a policy that will respect union representatives and that you will see unions as equal partners, to give up buying individual union leaders and stop politicising unions in Serbia. Yesterday, we received an appeal here, and it is an appeal to the MPs of the National Assembly to participate in a protest for the rescue of Serbia's employment and economy, and to say this: (it is the Union of Independent Unions of Serbia) "The People's MPs, these days before the Assembly and the Government, will stand the workers of Serbia and their representatives. It's very important to them what your decisions will be. Choose whether you will join them or ignore them. "Here, on behalf of the SRS, which is also the proposer of this request for a vote of no confidence to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, once again, we support the union protest of all trade union organisations and all that concerning the improvement of labour conditions and the profit of trade unions, but we support and think of workers and when important laws are passed that are treated, above all, them, such as employment laws, pension and disability insurance, the Labour Act, the Privatisation Act, etc. It is, above all, our role within each union, and these are workers who are different political definitions. We don't want as politicians to interfere with their union protests, but here I am from this place saying and I believe that I share the opinion of all the MPs, for what is in line with the union protest has our support. For that political part, let them leave us to the politicians, and we will be able to bring it to an end. Now, as far as this Labour Act is concerned, who we were against and who was voted in such a magical way here. I believe in the merits of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the force that you then had, and by stealing votes here in the National Assembly, because if it hadn't been for this theft by the Dossovic majority and if Mr. Novakovic's card had not been misused, it would not have been possible for these trade unionmen to demonstrate in Belgrade today and yesterday. Many unions in Serbia protested the draft labour law. At the time, you had no ear for them, and now you're seeing them in the Assembly to allegedly talk to them, and you have a police environment so that you don't accidentally have hair falling off your head while you're talking to union leaders. The question arises as to why the provisions of this legislative act, which disproves all employees in Serbia, standards that top and all employees can treat only as non-employees or as a technological surplus. Because those who buy or invest allegedly in Serbia, and intend only to get cheap labour, need as many unemployed as possible, because it then knocks down the labour price. They need a cheap rental workforce, and in this country they won't be able to live off their work, and we'll be in a situation very soon that many who are jobless rob shop windows to get to those basic provisions of life. Arm yourself with patience, what to do to you, I've been listening to you for three years, losing my temper, and now it's time to say everything we think we should tell you, although a little voice is betraying me, but I'll hold on. The basic question is whether this project of the Labour Act, which we adopted, has a reform character at all. When we say reform, it's supposed to mean something better, and we're going ahead. He's reforming only in the sense that he's turned everything upside down. A set of all the norms of this law offers to dominate the impact of capital on labour, which is a practice that has been overcome for more than a hundred years in developed countries of the world. It was left to employers to interpret the reasons for themselves, remember that Article 102. Labour law, canceling work contracts. He can say you have blue eyes, I don't like you, you get fired tomorrow, or you get fired right away. It is certain that the provisions of this law will bring nothing new in the inflow of foreign investment. That's what's already happened. This law does not allow the achievement of any pre-election and current promises either. It is widely estimated that the Labour Act is another delusion of the new government. Here's an example of Hungary, ladies and gentlemen, who is more than instructive to us. In the last decade during the transition to the Hungarian economy, $20 billion of foreign capital has arrived. That's the exact information. That money was spent buying factories that were later closed, so 600,000 workers were out of work. And that's what we warned you about when we discussed this law. The law created an army of labourable living work, which went to the street without a source of income and without offering a new regime of work. Chances for relatively fast employment of professionals and workers, especially young people, are becoming increasingly utopia. I pass the American embassy every day. The ranks are getting bigger, and I remember those promises of yours, so there's a need to keep young, capable, educated people, a lot of young people going abroad. When we come to power, it'll all stop. Those who have left will return because they will see that they have a perspective here. We'll even import labor. This government at first, which is now government, has promised us, and of course there is nothing. There's something worse. They're introducing us some more visas, such as the Hungarians. You were almost in Hungary, you signed some new visa regime with Hungary. And there's something else: we won't. It's a lot harder to get those evictive visas and visas at all, because they know what the situation is here, so if you don't have one or two kids, if you don't have a big salary, if you don't have any real estate, they won't let you go on a tourist visit abroad, let alone live somewhere else. We want the staff to be kept in Serbia, but also on how to deal with young people and scientists, when we talk about the Ministry of Science and Mr Domazette. As far as this labour law is concerned, there was a letter sent to Mr. Milovanovic from Canada. He says, "On behalf of the 260,000 members of the Union of Canadian auto-industrial workers, I am writing a protest about a serious violation of labour rights. We are informed by our member that the practice of violating trade union freedoms and rights in Serbia continues after 5 October 2000, especially in the company IMT Novi Belgrade, where your minister, misusing his position, kicked out of the company of 12 union activists, "Independence", which is inadmissible for us. We want you to know that trade union freedoms and rights are included in the IOR international conventions and are part of the human rights corps and members of the IOR and the United Nations should respect this right. The Union is harshly opposed to this behaviour and the anti-worker, anti-sindical attitude of your government and we are giving full support to our colleagues from this border union in IMT. It's the Metal Union. We are obliged and obliged to take certain steps on behalf of the protection of our members and to inform the United Nations, the IOR, the Council of Europe, as well as the governments of the countries from which you expect assistance and donations. We ask your government to consider this anti-work behaviour and oblige your subordinates to respect international labour rights. "With respect, the president and the one from Canada, this union that I have already cited. We have also come up with data that this ministry has received 500 euros from the German government to stand down for each year with the metals fired, and that the metals have received 100 euros, so the question is where is the money. Also, 350 euros say the tractor receives a personal minister via Mirko Žeželj, one of the directors of IMT. That's the data from these unions. Whether they're true or not will prove themselves. What still resents Minister Milovanovic, is so long as he comes to us, because I know you've prepared all the reports of what you've been doing and how you've been doing, but let him prepare in advance how and how and how the money bought a salary in the carlovakia street for the construction of a 70,000-euro house, when one poor unionist was and came as such at the office of Minister for Labour and Employment, and how this, at the expense of the IMT 1,000-metre-squared space, issued to his brother-in-law. I'm giving him his homework in advance and have him prepare to respond to these charges. Let's see a little bit what a grey economy is, that you've fought so hard and what the results of the fight against the gray economy are, although the grey economy is following the phenomenon and the most developed countries of the world, and we all agreed when you took measures against the gray economy, the world's most modern flows. It is particularly reflected in the economies that have been affected by the crisis, such as our economy, our war economies, and that was our economy, and the practice in which legal flows of the economy are degraded. In common with all the activities of the gray economy, there is something wrong with either the activities themselves or the information about them. More specifically, the present, but also the present shadow economy extends from naive smuggling into all its multiplicity, against which you have fought most and which you have, as the most important, to speculative keeping of goods, to false declarations so-called. new products, which only packaging has been changed and are those cigarettes, remember, up to very dangerous underground shops. We list in them a kind of heterogeneous purchase of white, and there are rich and black slaves, as well as the purchase of human organs, the purchase of children. We've got a gray economy everywhere. They're buying in the shadow of old and new types of weapons, which gives high financial effects, and you've been shaken by some affair about it. They are organized by specialised groups, the entire governments of individual countries or prominent individuals. Buying new technology, buying certain businesses, choking entire industries as a reality show us the economy in the shadows as an instrument in modern forms of competitive struggle. Under the notion of a gray economy, ladies and gentlemen, in the broadest sense, any illegal economic activity aimed at acquiring benefits in its own name and in its own account, and to the detriment of other individuals, economic operators or state. The grey economy covers all those activities that create a new additional value, but are not registered in the official account of the social product because they are not properly declared or not paid a corresponding tax. On the other hand, it involves criminal activities, e.g. corruption, fraud, racketeering, and corruption has, above all, in the government and state bodies, and then beyond the government, what has shaken you to corruption in the government. Prepare answers to these specific questions that MPs, who will discuss, will certainly refer to you, but here I am, on behalf of the promoter, not individually but globally. Avoiding tax payments is just one of the kinds of gray economy, and Mr Djelic has made an effort not to allegedly avoid paying taxes, and what results will we have yet to see, but there are a number of other ways of doing business that are placed in the gray economy and at the top of the gray economy are drug trafficking, weapons, money laundering or debt collection using force. There are immediately bribes and smuggling, and by bribery and abuse you are known throughout Europe. Everyone knows how much money they have to give, and even at the International Trade Court in Paris, disputes about the purchase of certain businesses, and they're really going to sue you for what they get, and if they get, and they get, because private capital has protection in the world and they won't let them be played, then the full privatisation you've been running will be a good basis for some new government to make an audit and to see what's sold out and sold out in accordance with the law, and what's illegal and who's the privatisation and how much benefits, because it's gentlemen's a gray economy. No one paid a tax out of it. He just put the money in his pocket, and he didn't pay his taxes. Given those burazeric, godfatherly, regional, country and other phenomena and forms, other organisational forms of gray economy, transition processes have also shown a number of their original forms here, because we are the specifics of many things. The gray economy of privatisation, the grey economy of foreign investment, we're just going to find out how much you've won and how much you've shown. The grey economy of foreign loans, the gray economy and so on. Money laundering. It's those Seattle and Marshall Islands. You're not talking about that gray economy. When you talk about the gray economy, you talk about those poor people who sell their goods on cardboard boxes or who sold on some gigs what they bought in Panchev from Romanians or Chinese, and then resell a little, so they can get to some dinars so they can feed the kids. We don't want to talk about that gray economy. We're going to talk about this gray economy that I just cited. In many segments of the repressive measures of the police regime and the judicial system, they also showed no expected effects, that the grey economy is translated into frameworks of legal activity or maintained at an adequate and acceptable level. The announcements and appearances of numerous impromptu and hasty initiatives and initiatives, repression and strict sanctions in the laws are rarely becoming the original power to strengthen the gray economy. How did our privatisation become an input and impulse of the gray economy? Privatisation, as our current reality and phenomenon, promotes the gray economy, and how? First of all, the behavior of company managers that are the subject of privatisation in order to make companies as cheap as possible and for a known buyer sold. Next, getting a privatisation commission. The Deloj and the shower, which took part in all of this, I have even, reading now a book about transition, read that this law firm where this lawyer, Lazarevic, who is being sold for some lawyer and who The Hague is forcing to be a lawyer of Vojislav Seselj, is also related to the privatisation of a very important firm, and as hired by Deloj and Tuša, with whom Minister Mihajlovic has connections. Sell your souls, that's the way it is. Using a variety of credits to buy firms under conditions that are non-economical and advantageous or use of inflation and devaluation benefits, buy-in of low-price enterprises and potentially later resales at a higher cost, spill-over capital of companies to foreign parent companies, various forms of money transfer to foreign banks, various use of non-privatised enterprises for personal purposes in the privatisation process, deliberately impoverishing enterprises that should be subject to the determination of the value of capital, for the purpose of preparing sales to known customers, etc. This is what I'm telling you so far, because I know we'll come to power after you, and I want to tell you in time that we know exactly what we're going to do, that we absolutely understand what you've been doing, and that we won't have to do much in drawers, files to rebel, that we know what economic policy is, that we've followed you well, that we're also doing science. So, dear gentlemen, you who have to pack your bags and buy plane tickets in time take away what you have, although we already have enough copies of everything that exists in the drawers. Did you see how we ruined Mr. Micunovic in the campaign, so he didn't know that our man was in charge of his campaign, so he put the Russian flag instead of the Serbian flag, as if the president of Russia was elected. We have our own people everywhere who provide us with the data, and you know that, as far as the data is concerned, about who's doing what's illegal in this country, he's got the biggest data and he's got Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Believe me, there's absolutely no telling what you're doing in The Hague. We and today get the most information and information from him. You won't believe it, but it's really true. I think tomorrow at 3:00 p.m. there's going to be a transfer of the status conference that Dr. Vojislav Seselj had a chance to plead at yesterday. He had two hours to talk. I recommend you take a look at that, you'll hear a lot of things, especially about Mr. Mihajlovic. A new way of privatising in the form of an accelerated auction sale of enterprises will also represent a new impulse of the strength of the grey economy factors and the emergence of money laundering. This is also a new way and method of redistributing national assets and wealth. This Mr. Vlahovic also knows when he proposed and defended this model of auction production and participated in many auctions. What are those measures supposed to be to curb the gray economy? First of all, the process of turning the grey economy into a legal, official; then, successful neutralisation of the causes and many forms of this negative phenomenon; intensiveing economic reforms; neutralising the possibilities of imports or the impact of international gray economy flows and implementing such a system and privatisation process, in which there will be no possible breach of the resources and policies of the grey economy. The intensities of that Excise Act, which you said would lead to the repression of the gray economy, as part of the tax reform, have been applied since 1 April 2001, which is yours allegedly a great credit and a good move from this government. In addition to financial resources intended for the Republic of Serbia's budget, this law should aim, according to the motionors, i.e. Governments, and the neutralisation of the grey economy in the sale of primarily oil, tobacco processing, ethyl alcohol, alcoholic beverages, refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, coffees, salts for food and luxury products and others. It is a special consumption tax that will be adjusted three months to a small growth rate. Let's just take an example of the gray economy that fills the news columns. If Zagreb's "National" hadn't started with that series of texts on the tobacco mafia in Montenegro, Serbia and other republics of the former SFRY, our public wouldn't know anything about the proportions of businesses that took place in the field of gray economy, where cigarette smuggling has reached a situation that measures hundreds of millions of dollars, and we know who is the biggest mobster and tobacco smuggler - Stanko Subotic Cane. He knows who he was with and he is in a relationship with, and there's nothing I can do to help you, and we've published a book on that. You laugh. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] You know, it wasn't easy for me to get ready for this discussion. Believe me, I've worked hard. I've read a lot. I've also had a hard time standing behind this pay phone for two and a half hours, but I've decided to endure, because we Serbian radicals decided on October 5th to endure and maintain this DOS and DOS-manley power of yours and to bring you down from power and because we promised our President Vojislav Seselj on February 23rd, when he went to The Hague, that we would finish what he started. He kept putting his finger in your eye. At least now she crashed behind this pay phone, believe me, I wouldn't take that job away. Don't feel sorry for me. I didn't ask for pity, I expect admiration and respect. Just one brief review, I'll soon finish now, on the results of applying the latest privatisation package, not to enter the whole law. The results of privatisation, this is a general assessment, and you can see that even trade unions are now asking for this law to no longer be applied, are not satisfactory, and the relevant data are as follows: in 2001, the year was actually lost from the aspect of the privatisation of state and social property, as the basics of reform transformation; in December 2001, tender sales of three cements - Beocin, Popovac and Kosjerić were successfully completed. And there was an affair, and I believe those who are from Beocin, Popovec, will talk about it. I don't want to save you that time. In 2002, 23 companies were offered in the tender, of which 12 transactions were completed. About 12,000 employees were employed in these companies. The tender price was around 196m euros, plus investments of around 282m and for social programmes of about 82m euros. Last year's auctions offered 256 companies, of which 221 companies were sold. The number of employees was around 17,000, the bookkeeping price was around 87m euros, and a price of about 76m euros was reached. Minister Vlahovic announced that this year, three thousand companies are expected to be privatised, about 120 per month, that was in "Politica" on January 25th 2003, so let's see if that's the case, Mr. Minister will tell us. Here, of course, is a place to highlight and evaluate the famous Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz, related to privatisation. "Although those who insisted on privatisation proudly pointed out a high percentage of state-owned enterprises that had crossed into private hands, it was a suspicious achievement. After all, it is easy to simply distribute state property, especially to your friends and friends, and the likelihood that this will happen is so much greater if the politicians who handle privatisation can get a return result, directly or indirectly, as a contribution to the campaign. "This "return score" I guess you know what it means. It means bribery or corruption or percentage. It can be concluded that privatisation in our country has not achieved its economic and social mission, but has allowed the self-will of the state, political groups and individuals to unsuspected proportions. It starts chasing those domestic and foreign individuals and groups that have or can come into possession of the money. It's those criminal groups that had that illegal money, which was supposed to be put into legal flows somehow. There are also vague credit lines as a dominant form of business plan for the purchase of a company, where personal IDs are more important than legitimacy and legality, and we are not talking about market value or value of capital. There is no doubt that these potential customers want auctions to sell off companies for depravity, the mass offering begins for so-called. the liquidation value, the preceding liquidation of enterprises through selective application of the bankruptcy legal provisions, in order for workers to be fired, to make claims to suppliers on the field of settlements, and the same companies to sell out independently of value and size. Parastate bodies such as agencies, councils, commissions, advisors, experts and others, and we warned you all about that when you set them up, instead of false acceleration of privatisation creating a new creation out of this necessary big social work. At present, an accent is put on the sale of a number of companies with the provisions of the Labour Act, which offer the possibility of uncontrollable layoffs of workers, the financing of public auctions, the acting of competition and a number of other methods from the field of the gray economy. The auction sale is becoming a specific form of settlement. There is an increase in sales involving only one potential buyer buying the company. For example, "Charlie" from the Fireman and dozens of others. Let's just see how the company "Health" Leskovac, which is proud not only of this region, but of all Serbia. They bought a brand. As you can see, they no longer advertise those baby soaps, they now advertise only those of their Henkel products. I don't speak for nothing. It's something the Serbian public can see. "Merima" Kruševac, well, the example is the same. [[Tossing that Henkel has nothing to do with "Health", but with "Merima".]] There's a brand being bought, that's what I was going to say. You can let me do a lapus after all this time, I don't think it's a big deal, but don't you, sir, defend your localist interests. This is just one example that confirms the rule. Then these companies, dear gentlemen, will close down and only their goods will be sold. It will also be in Leskovec, and it will be in Krševec. The gentleman from Krushevec will be able to confirm that. Mr. Minister, there's something going on on the streets of Belgrade, police say they're beating up trade unions outside the Skuština building. It's supposed to intervene. A financial adviser in the privatisation process "Health" has been selected by the company Nomura International PLS from Japan, which has an exceptional rating in business circles for the area. The company has hired an auditory house for financial business expertise, I believe this is read "KPMG" from the Netherlands, an adviser to the area of international law I know Russian well, I stutter English. [[Throwing it out of the bench.]] For an international law adviser to Divej, an LLP based in London and a domestic law adviser, an attorney's office, it's that Dražić, Lazarevic, Beatovic, who wants to sell to The Hague there, to take those tens of thousands of euros, no matter how much his protégé, allegedly a protégé, does not want to co-operate with him or contact him. We've reached this law firm, while the technical advisor's affairs are entrusted to GM Project from the Czech Republic. Probably in the flood of the labour community, someone will announce how much here and in similar cases sales costs are in the privatisation process, which are first reconciled from the funds achieved from the sale of capital, so when you pay all of these, we told you when the Privatisation Act was passed, what remains and why so many intermediaries? That everyone takes a little bit to put in their pocket and sell themselves out, and only once is they sold what's sold and entered the state budget. After they can, of course, sell, new owners, but the state has nothing left. Why are the funds achieved by selling capital the budgetary component for preambitious budget filling? What is the fate of privatisation in Serbia? There will certainly be further decomposition and redistribution of wealth and power in the deeper crisis. If, therefore, in Serbia, the phenomenon of privatisation in Hungary, we have already said which, some of these best factories are even closed, workers have stayed on the street, and how to avoid the foreign ways of privatisation in the experience of Russia and other post-socialism countries, Djelic could tell us, as he can no longer go to Russia and Poland. There is also a new ideologies of the privatisation process, which is trying to create an image that has no improvisation, error, sale through political, personal, godfather ties, etc., no bribes, no corruption and other universalities. Only if you agreed not to talk about each other, but as soon as two or three people know something, it's over, the whole of Serbia finds out. It worries and gives birth to new dilemmas and fears. As for the conditionality of the transition to foreign countries, to international financial institutions and to all other grounds, since you will surely speak of what you inherited, let me remind you of what you inherited. The foreign debt of Yugoslavia between 1965 and 1970 in millions of dinars, here, just the first year, 1965, say, net debt in millions 1,045, 1970, 1.858. In addition to the increase in unemployment, the closure for our opportunities for significant capacities of the extractive industry, metallurgy and the like, in addition to social and political mixes in the years 1968 and 1971, which no doubt had to be affected by economic development problems, increased difficulties with the balance of payments referred to the least resistance line to the increasingly significant taking of foreign credits. That was still in Broz's day. Furthermore, what happens is, between 1971 and 1973, the external net debt increases by 1.3 times from $2.699 million to $3.980 million. During the observed period from 1971 to 1976, debt increased on average about $930 million a year. The non-selective reach for external debts marked the period from 1976 to 1981, and Tito was besembled in 1980, to Tito. The total net debt for the period 1977 to 1981 was $11.800m. The annual commitments of Yugoslavia on the basis of borrowing in the period from 1984 to 1990, here, only in 1984, are in dollars, five billion 390 million, I am talking about Yugoslavia, the one that once existed; in 1990 four billion 920 million, in the period from 1983 to 1990, the SFRY paid in almost foreign creditors a substantial sum of over 30 billion dollars, which was a major challenge in proving it can be an orderly salary. Compare your debt returns with this period from 1984 to 1990, as far as debts are concerned, even this period before that, I mean the repayment of debts, because we are no longer able to provide interest on a regular basis, and the debts will only wait for us there from 2007 onwards. These years, there have been major changes in the instruments and debt and debt collection policy from developing countries, notably the IMF, which is given a key role in resolving the country's acute debt problem. Working together with the World Bank and governments, or the banks of Western countries, the IMF becomes some kind of debt-relation agent -- trusts and comes forward on behalf of creditors with its conditionality policy, we all know that. Debts are reprogrammed in principle - case by case, with the direct involvement of the IMF in the context, mostly, of the institutions of the Paris Club. As a result of its external debt and depth of the internal crisis, socialism practice and "his economy", Yugoslavia agreed then on the dynamics of using foreign funds under the annual stand-by arrangement, which in the late 1980s and early 1990s turned into half-year, three months, and at the end of the month's insight into settlement and conditionality control. So much for working with the IMF. There has been a break-up, unfortunately, SFRY; unfortunately, unfortunately, we have fallen apart, the SFRY, but I am sorry for that Knin, where 90% of Serbs lived and was more Serbian than Belgrade, which has 70% of Serbs, that you gave up Serbian Krajina, that you gave up the interests of Republika Srpska, but that the Slovenes went away and the happy way, and that the Croats went and the happy way, but the fact that our territories have kept it, we cannot forget it, and we have to insist on it constantly being ours, because one day it will be again, will give God, ours. Once again at some negotiating table, when the world's strengths are affected, Serbia will get that place in the society of European peoples that it belongs to it, many in the world will know that it appreciates what it should appreciate in Serbia, so that radicals do not question whether it will one day be ours again, the question is just how much time and years it will take to convince the international public that it is necessary for Serbia to get some new borders. Thus, the collapse of the SFRY also raised the issue of the balance of debts and obligations to creditors based on foreign borrowing. The delays in this part of the de-negotiated balance sheet among countries that were created by the secession of the SFRY agree on the possibility of consolidation and reorganisation of external debt, as preconditions for the normalisation of membership in international financial organisations. The SRJ's commitments, which have not been paid and accumulated since September 1992, have worsened the negotiating position for borrowing at international level. The state since 30 June 1998, the National Bank of Yugoslavia's newsletter, long-term commitments to abroad, amounted to 5.6 billion marks and 492 million marks in the short term. We've indicated an unauthorized behavior by which we write off various amounts, and we haven't identified the truth regarding the height of our debt, its structure, such as tight interest, height and long-term. We have a total debt per principal and a total debt of regular interest, so the total debt of tight interest, which is what hurts you the most, which is 12 billion 79 million. It's our external debt with all these interest rates, regular, tight, etc. Compare that debt with that debt that old Yugoslavia, the great Yugoslavia, how much further you owe us, and we don't know why, unless it's for asphalting, but you don't take credit for it. To touch, in addition to this economic part, just one more topic, which is Kosovo and Metohija, and it's really very short, because it's a very painful topic, which we've absorbed through two declarations and a regular resolution here, in terms of what this government should be in terms of resolving the status issues of Kosovo and Metohija, or whether we should engage in resolving the status of Kosovo and Metohija or not, and here we all have unanimously said that this is not the time to resolve the status of Kosovo, and you've gone again to talk to the Shiptars in Vienna, and it's clear that this Vienna should lead to this and will make you come to the need to negotiate with the Shiptars, and they just want to regulate their status. To remind you once again of your promises made in 2000, and regarding Kosovo and Metohija, and to remind you of what has happened in Kosovo and Metohija since 2000. Two hundred thousand people fled to terror, 1.167 killed, 1,136 kidnapped, 50,000 houses burned, no murderers caught, 200,000 new residents in Serbia, only 2% returnees, 700,000 long and short pipes in Kosovo and Metohija, the KLA was not disarmed, the Kosovo Protection Corps formed and the ANA was formed and welcomed by Mr Covic, the assistance we gave to Kosovo and Metohija only in seed corn. The budget is loaded with five billion dinars, and we have no idea where Covic spends that money. We had those three resolutions on May 4, May 30, this last one. We talked about the fact that personal security, the return of displaced, the minimum institutions have to be ensured, you don't insist enough in international circles on that. You welcomed Resolution 1244, and we didn't, we were against it, and why don't you now advocate that it be strictly implemented. It's a question for the Serbian government. Of course, what burdens you most, that's The Hague, I don't know how you're going with The Hague. You have avoided receiving these four indictments, Mr. Prime Minister, and Mr. Svilanovic did not hesitate to receive them, Mr. Mihajlovic will have to arrest them, but how he will arrest Mr. Lukic, how he will arrest General Lazarevic and how he will survive all of this and do so if he is Serbian-born. It's a question for this government, because it says how much you are the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people or are just an exposition of those who brought you into power. Thank you for listening to me. [[Applause to the SRS MPs.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33893	The Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33894	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I already thanked you once, but I will thank you once again for the opportunity for the Serbian government to talk about what has been done for the past 1,000 days. As you yourself heard from the promoter, in early September a request was made for this session and there was no dilemma that the Serbian government would accept it, because I must immediately admit that the worst job that the government has done in all these 1,000 days is exactly to talk about what it has done. Marketing Government is very bad, regardless of the observations of the other content. I'm sure it'll be a lesson that in another time this same government, when it gets a new mandate, better prepare for that part of its work. We've heard a lot of things. For a time, I had a concentration to follow what the promoter said. After that, that reading was a little hard for the motionor himself, and for me, so I couldn't quite catch everything there. I've put about 30 points that are asked as questions or as findings, which require commentary. Generally, what has been done for these 1,000 days, which has been initiated by a large number of citizens on October 5th, before that in the elections, and formally since the end of January 2001, it is that Serbia has become a normal state. A normal state is not an equally perfect state. The normal state isn't the same rich state. A normal state is a country that, with its government, with its citizens and with all institutions and with all individuals, manages in the 21st century more or less well. It happens to everyone, across Europe, it's not just happening in Europe, it's been happening to us for the last three years. What has been in Serbia since 1990 has been completely sick and abnormal. What's been going on since 1945 was on the verge of normal behavior. It is the greatest success of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It was a mandate given to us by citizens in the December 2000 elections. It's very difficult to accept for those who are not used to living normally. It is very difficult to accept from anyone who is not normal, by his guilt or by the guilt of others. It's hard to live by your day starting with the sun rising east, and no one convinces you that it's just because it's the government of national unity or I don't know what those governments were called, but that it's a natural phenomenon. It's perfectly normal in normal countries to have strikes. It is not normal for trade unions to have political demands and political parties to support unions when they have political demands. That's what's going on here. It's just part of the picture on our political scene. It is a twilight for those parties who have come from the position of an active political entity to support the unions. Those who think they're seriously involved in politics in this country should take over the political fight themselves, not to push the poor unions, and especially these ignorant ones who never had unions, or any other requirements until a year or two days ago, or until a few months ago, when they saw that they could no longer be in those business spaces that were assigned to them who knew when and who knows why. The stock remains in the park under the tents until the demands are met, the action that needs to be returned, I don't know, the mark of the revolution, was interrupted last night because the vine was gone and because it was a little cold. That's normal. That's what this government accepts. It's also normal that you have a little more police around this building or some other buildings, and it's normal and it happens everywhere in every country in the world. It is normal, unfortunately, that in Serbia not everyone is employed. It's normal, unfortunately, and that there are exactly a million people who are registered at the Bureau, I don't know how many of these millions are really looking for a job. We'll see how this law applies, but it's definitely a lot of data and it's not a million people. We have clear information that over 3,000 lawyers are sitting at the Bureau, and that 3,000 jobs have been vacant for lawyers. We have over 2,000 graduate economists at the Bureau, and there are about 1,800 empty spaces. We've got about 4,000 empty seats for KV traders, and they're 30,000 sitting on the desk and they won't take those jobs. We have clear data that 250,000 people without qualifications on the list of bureaus, and that last year about 30,000 needs for workers remained unfulfilled. We have a lot of information about the most veterinarians who are waiting for work on the Sava Veneto and Vračar, and we lack veterinarians all over Serbia. It's a reality and it's a normal Serbia. We have clear information that reforms are painful and that reforms are not popular. That's how it has to be. This government won't do makeup. We did not get from the citizens, and the government of Prime Minister Djindjic and that which is the logical continuation of that government, the mandate to rule, but to change. That's what we do. We are changing one Serbia on the verge of a clinical condition of death in normal Serbia, which is difficult, complicated, is not easy to live in the normal states of the 21st century, but now it is normal to live in this Serbia with all these difficulties. There are two kinds of reforms, I want to quote the late prime minister, unsuccessful and unpopular. We've defined ourselves as unpopular who are successful and who don't like a single number of people. Probably sometimes over 50% of people think it's hard and it hurts, that's true. Like any other therapy, this one must start to hurt, and sometimes stronger than the disease itself had pain intensity. All in order to remove the disease. It will be continued. That will be done by this government in its second term. That's what every next government will have to do, because it's the only way we can keep going our way into a normal country. The affairs are also, unfortunately, part of the normal state. Whether they are true or not, whether it is a projection of political opponents who want to come to power, which is the same legitimate, or is founded, that is correct, that is what must be proved in institutions. There should be a law on conflict of interest, but without that law there must be some rules that must be respected. Anyone who has committed abuse with the institutions of government and without that law will be out of power, and we will find a way to be convicted of it, and be sure of that. This applies to everyone, regardless of which parties, from which coalitions, no matter what they did on October 5th or what they're doing now. There's no dilemma. That's normal. It is also normal for citizens to say they have less money than they need. I have to find a secret, it's a global disease, and it's like that everywhere. In the American dream of wealth, 99 percent of people dream, but a few percent of people live. Unfortunately, it's here, too. The world isn't fair, but it's like that, and it's not the kind of government that made it that way. That's who he is. I hear remarks -- here, now there's everything. Yes, it's full of stores, it's all legal, you have a stamp, you have a origin of goods, but there's no money. We have to chase the money. We used to chase for sugar, for oil, for bread, for not knowing everything, for fuel, and now we have to chase for money. That's right. All over the world, from Switzerland to Albania and whatever other combination you want, it's true that money is being chased to raise your family's standard to a higher level. There's no dilemma. It's not just a case here, and it's not a DOS promise that someone will get free funerals or that everyone will work. No, I don't. Take what you call us for, our program, so look what it says there. Although it would be the first opposition to ask the authorities to implement the program. You were against it. Even those who were with us were against that program, but that's for another topic. Reforms can be interrupted, but it will have disastrous consequences for our country. I don't link reforms to the survival of the government. No, this Serbia will survive and that maybe this government will fall. She survived 500 years under the Ottoman Empire, 40 or 50 years under Communists, 10 to 12 years under the red and black coalition. She will survive and not be this government, but I assure you that no one, even if she wanted to, will be able to bring back the wheel of history. What's been accomplished in these three years, what's being funded, no one will be able to spoil, not even those who are now trying to bring down the government in this way. That's not gonna happen. The only thing that is dangerous is whether these reforms will continue at the pace and success that has been achieved in these 1,000 days or will be slowed down. It won't go any faster, not because we've been supermen, especially smart, the best experts in the world, but because this has been done so far, it's been possible to do so far. Find me in this debate, in any debate, one thing that could have been done, that has a general character, that hasn't been done in three years. One thing. We can also talk about how some ministers could have been changed. They've changed. Let me remind you, seven or eight ministers have come in and out of this government. Some of them resigned, so they ran away, some of them were forced to resign, so they were expelled, and that's the same mark of a normal state. What definitely measured is that stable economic growth was achieved. He's not huge, he's not 10 or 15 percent a year, because it's impossible. If we take an example, such as China, with stable major economic growth, we in a country that's been destroyed by a catastrophic government in the last 12 to 13 years, bombings, sanctions, we can't expect a miracle. The growth was higher than in any other country in the 90s. You can check that, not in our data, if you don't trust them, although the whole world trusts them, but in those data that seem to be relevant to you. But it's not this data related to 61st and 65th years. That part of the speech I didn't realize about the borrowing. What's clear is that inflation was reduced 20 times, that gross social product was $820, and now it's $2,570 per cap. With a little effort you can come up with that it's four times as much, that the salary was 35 and 40 euros, that today is close to 200 euros, that at the same time the consumer basket collected it with all the costs, and with communals, and with electricity, and with clothes and with all the living things, that it collected about 60 and a few percent, first of all because of the harmonisation of prices, those prices that were very low, but for which you couldn't buy anything. That's the data. That the foreign exchange inflow from tourism is catastrophic today, that it's $120 million, but it was $28 million. That through the privatisation, which you attacked, and which was evaluated by everyone who participated in it, whether they were from here or outside, whether they were just following it, whether they were assessing it, is the best privatisation system that has ever been applied. No matter what you give as an objection without a basis, there is a competent minister, he will explain to you for days everything you do not understand from that area and that is his obligation as minister to whom you have entrusted. To go back to some of those 35 questions I've been asked. First it was The Hague. As far as I know, the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, went to The Hague alone. For me, as an average citizen of Serbia, it is proof that this man has confessed to the court. I can't figure it out any other way. So any other interpretation would be unusual, and then why are you talking about The Hague today? And you cooperated with The Hague and sent two men there in '96, '97. The previous government, I don't know if you were or weren't in it at that moment, when you were going in and out, that ficus was introduced and carried out in various ways. But definitely The Hague is our reality that's not good. He's got his start and his own piece of work. The beginning of this Hague is not in the Security Council, but in the crazy decisions made on Santa's 90th, 91st. When someone had ambition and someone was loudly saying that a million Albanians would be expelled over the Curse in 24 hours. That's what you said. Serbian Radical Party. What did you do? You ran away. You have the ambition that Knin will be Serbian. You may have the ambition to be a serious party, but it won't happen, like all your other ambitions. I don't think it's your fault that it hasn't been accomplished, it would have been disastrous if it had been accomplished. That's no way to conduct politics in the 20th and 21st centuries. In Serbia, it was possible to live before these crazy ideas produced by The Hague court. It could have lived under Tito's communism much better than under your "nationalism". Unfortunately, what happened happened. There were war crimes, including in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, and both Serbs and Croats, Muslims and Albanians, not as peoples, but as individuals. All those who committed war crimes must respond. There's no dilemma. It's for everyone. That is why it is our obligation to work with The Hague, and from being a member of the United Nations, which is the same normal state, unlike your time, and because we have domestic law that we have to respect. The law also clearly defines a situation where the competent state authorities can, for reasons of protecting the state's interest, deny co-operation with The Hague tribunal. To delay it, to seek explanations, and we will ask for it for these four generals. The citizens are up there, there was another thesis. It's probably worse for some citizens. The largest number of these citizens are sitting in opposition benches in this House. It's worse for you, you've been riding, you thought it would last forever, and unfortunately every race and every dream has its wake. The awakening can be nice, depending on whether you have a clear conscience, and it can be as difficult as a nightmare, and it happened to you. One part of the citizens, who are not sitting in opposition benches, are affected by reforms more difficult than others. They're the ones who had a vision of working somewhere, they had a work book, they had a stamp in it, it was written that they were employees. They used to go to work, no matter what they did there, not with their own guilt, but with the guilt of the state and the guilt of their management. For years, they went to work like that, for years they received small or no salaries, for years they were convinced they were doing something. They lived off the gray economy, which they had to fully develop to survive. Maybe it's worse for them now. To those whose companies have gone bankrupt, it's probably worse, but it's only emotional. They now have higher incomes at the bureau than they had salaries. Unfortunately, it is also not good, but unfortunately it is also normal Serbia. Nine thousand people are at the employment bureau, but the trend of increasing the number of unemployed did not unfortunately come with DOS authorities, it came early. You had 2,250,000 employees in 1996, and today it's 1,800,000. In the last three years, a hundred and a few thousand people have been raised by a number of unemployed, or a reduced number of employees, and that is the reality of the transition, but that is, if you compare it to any other country data in transition, something that is normal. It's not nice, it's not good, but it's normal for this period and it's the only way we can create clean conditions, clean terrain for the citizens of a new economy. The economy that existed, which is mentioned here as industrial capacities that are not employed, will never be employed. These industrial capacities that are unemployed today, probably not just today but also the last 10-12 years, will never be employed, or because they were designed for a market that we never had, which is five times bigger than this is ours, you know. Developmentists, or because this technology is so outdated, especially in the field of electronics, that huge investments are needed to produce it, and the question is where it could be placed tomorrow, and that is why we can't look at the economy by whether we can employ economic capacity. No, the economy is seen as if you can sell something, so that you can make what you can sell, not produce it, so you can ask yourself, what do we do now? It's a small change that is unfortunately historic and that's what the DOS government's fluid is. There are no more curtains behind which we are hiding, and these are transparent, no more Podkin villages. No, we are obliged to tell citizens the truth, and we are talking at great risk of being unpopular, with a high risk of really gathering 50,000 workers here, and that's normal in a normal country, to gather 50,000 workers. The stories of refugees. We've heard an earthquake story about a messenger being on a bus and seeing a woman she's estimated to be a refugee because she's badly dressed, talking about her relationship with refugees, not mine, talking and transferring refugees to us. Refugees aren't DOS regime fluids. The refugees are the problem we face and the problem we solve. There is no citizen who came as a refugee from October 5th to this day on this territory and there are 600,000 refugees who came here by loudly, some of you secretly calling for Belgrade to protect them, inviting Belgrade children or children from Serbia to defend what someone was selling. Knin, I remember that August 4, 1995. That was, to remind you, nine years before DOS took power in this country. There were bad movies of American B production at the same time that tractor columns came to this country. Don't tell us that. It's our job to make it possible for them to live normally. We gave them IDs and all the opportunities to live normally in this country, and you didn't give them any ID. We can't give them a house and a job because there's no home. It's not a question of our will, it's not. If you want to look a little bit at what this government is doing, the eyes the citizens are looking at, then you'll see that the government's foreign policy is based on exactly what refugees are doing back where they came from or that at least they can own their assets that stayed there. The same goes for Croatia and the same goes for Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija, together we were here when the Declaration was adopted, and we said we wouldn't talk about the guilty and the responsible, but then don't put it back on and call us for it. What has this government damaged the situation in Kosovo and Metohija? With what? By talking to you? We will talk again to both Albanians and the international community. It's the only way to do something. Another way we saw it, and that other way led to the killing of several thousand Serbs, that over 200,000 were expelled or fled from Kosovo and Metohija, and this authority will not be the way you used to reuse it. We were with Serbs from Kosovo whenever it was necessary and when it was difficult. There weren't many pleasant events, but every time it was hard we're here and we're here and that's the priority of our foreign policy. We now have, unlike any previous government, perhaps from Tito's time, the possibility of actively participating in resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems. The problem is not easy, it is not easy to solve, but we managed to recover what Milosevic threw out of his hands, and that is the possibility that we can solve that part of the problem. Not just us, but we'll be able to do it. I read how questions came and I accept that it is a very big problem that Mr Pitic has not taken an oath for three months, or sworn an oath, and then, if you break the government, he can be another three months minister himself in the next government, because I don't know what that has to do with the Serbian government as an observation. Around the winning experts, there are government members who will, with your permission, tell you about what they did, what they didn't do, why they didn't do what they didn't do and what they're planning to do next, and whether or not they're experts or not there are more ways to determine. You said we were the undertaker of the Serbian economy. Maybe that's true. You are the murderers of the Serbian economy. First, it's an occupation which is honorable and which has its historical and every other justification, but the murder of the Serbian economy was done in your time. I'm talking about those who are proposing for this agenda point. You've called us and as a well-mannered boy, a little older, I've agreed to speak to you, and if there's another part of the debate, then we're ready to answer to them. Serbian citizens know what we're doing, you don't know, and that's why I'm telling you. You killed the Serbian economy ideologically long ago, but you killed it through hyperinflation in 1993, and burazeric privatisation, country privatisation, gray, or black, or red-black economy is the mark of your being in office, not something that has to do with this government. Debts; there was a very extensive story about debts since 1961. I was born in the late 1960s, and I hope I'm not guilty of debt since 1960. Debts that have been created in the last few years are debts that are through so-called. Soft loans favourable debts, which have been invested in the restoration of the state's infrastructure. These are the loans that have been taken for these purposes. That's what you'll get from the ministers, and not everyone's here today. Unfortunately, it won't be possible for everyone to be here all day because, apart from the most important job we have, it's that we report to you and to the citizens what we've been doing, there are other jobs that this country has to do. Someone has to take care of the pensioners, the socially endangered, someone has to sign international contracts, someone has to settle the debts inherited from a period that you're not guilty of, at least not as members of the SRS, probably as members of the Communist Union. Please, if we can agree on that, since our initiative is on Fridays and Mondays, that Wednesdays and Thursdays are not working days because with one delegation I have to go to China, to settle debts that are over half a billion, which you took very nearly 10 years ago. You don't have to hang up if you don't want to. There will be enough ministers and vice presidents left to defend the government here. I'll have to deal with the debts that are your inheritance. Also, there is a big job called debt settlement with the Soviet Union, the SFRY - the Soviet Union, or Russia - Serbia. We're at the end of the road to settle that, too. These are not debts created by DOS power, these are debts that will pay, unfortunately, still our children, but which are drastically reduced and that will give us the right opportunity to create a new impulse of our exchange and with these great states in the world. It is said that Korac's report on failures in the work of the security authorities during the murder of Dr Zoran Djindjic was not available to the public. He was available to the public. For blockades and strikes, I said it was also a normal Serbia. The construction law was attacked as inconclusive. The minister will defend it. I remember the urban successes of the Zemun municipality at a time when these citizens, unfortunately, had to suffer the authority of a party that raised the issue of trust. I think there are still clear clues to your success in that part. As for the legalization of objects, it's not a robbery, it's a possibility that people of objects that they've singled out for years, built, mixed the malter themselves, carried bricks, that they could register and enter into some new bond relations, some new credit relations that would help them cope better in all the trials of the 21st century. That's normal. It is said that there are lies broadcast by the government through its media. I'm asking you which one is our medium? Give me one medium you can call. Take the paper today, and see what all our media say about us and what they say about the opposition. I don't mind that, but it bothers me when you say we have our own media. This does not exist, nor do we need, nor will we have them, for we have also learned a lesson from what you did. We'll never take any media. She says health care is a very bad situation. I would not agree that it is very bad, but I completely agree that nothing has been done there, because we have had two personnel failures at health positions, because we have had archidemagogics that have been caused by the coalition agreement, unfortunately, who have reversed health care for a while and other ministries' efforts have contributed to both doctors and nurses having three or four times as much pay as it was in 2000, to have several hundred new machines that were unimaginable in hospitals until two or three years ago, which, out of credit, which is to help you have medicines in these hospitals and to have strikes in hospitals, which is also normal life in one normal country. I can go on after my break. I want to tell you that if you expected us to defend ourselves today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, no, we won't defend ourselves. Both I and most of the ministers sitting and sitting in this government will be today, both tomorrow, and in five and over 20 years proud to have participated in a project called the normalisation of the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33895	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. Interested presidents of parliamentary groups can be seen with representatives of unions on the first floor in Hall I. [[After break - 16.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue our work. The word is made by Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, a follow-up, after that by the Rules of Procedure. This was a break-up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33897	He broke his watch because it was a break. As a sworn legalist, I respect all the rules, as you know, but without a quote, a real legalist. I collected those remarks Mrs. Pop-Lazic said, and I can see she's gone, but I'm sure her colleagues are behind that speech. It's obvious that it was one collective piece of work on that speech. The sect of Mr. Gashi Knezevic is mentioned. I assure you, when he shows up here, he'll have to tell you if he shared any propaganda materials, any sects. I don't think so. I don't think so, but what he'll be remembered for is that he's a minister who's returned to school, with the approval and disapproval of some, that depends on political attitudes. I honestly think that religion had to be introduced, as it was kicked out of school, was forced out. It was introduced with a little more energy than usual, but I don't think it could have been any other way. It is against the price of electricity, that the price of electricity is very high and that it is a major blow to the budget and then there are some data that are not correct. It's that the price of heating in one month is 1.18 average wages, which is not true. It's possible that heating for the whole season is at that level, but it's definitely never so expensive. What was done in the price of electricity is that it was brought near to the level that is necessary for the system itself to function, i.e. that the production of electricity and its distribution is not financed from the budget. I don't understand the problem, saying that the price of electricity is expensive, because citizens pay for electricity, whether they pay it directly for kilowatt hours, whether it's paid from the budget, or when the government finances electricity production. We've reached a level that maybe next year we're going to need another adjustment at about 15% and that's going to be the end. The heating of electricity, otherwise, since there have been calls to Europe and the JJ century, is not a mark of Europe or the JJ century, and just as heating in other energies is much more appropriate than heating in electricity. Nobody does that but us. Some have to, but I think with this heat and the whole system, the situation is much better and it won't be a burden anymore. As far as the current itself is concerned, since normal Serbia is a huge difference is that now you get electricity by turning on the switch, if you need a light, you don't have to watch what zone you are, what time it is, when you're turned off, whether you can turn on the oven or the boiler. No, today the electricity is running out and paying. As far as tax reform is concerned, I have to say that there's been a lot done here, so that we can be satisfied and that there's only one important part left, and that's the value added tax. I already asked you last time, and now I ask you to put this session on the agenda after all, because all those who want to fight the gray economy, and everyone says they want it, the best way to do it is to introduce a value added tax and then the grey economy becomes, maltene, inconclusive. As for the story of some coming out of the world, so they tell us here who they're talking to, Mr. Solana that he kicked out Vice President Jovanovic and some other variants like that, maybe it was once, I don't know, I haven't been involved in the government before, but since 2000, it hasn't happened. It's something that doesn't need to be proven in particular. Neither to me, nor to the previous prime minister, nor to impose anything, nor to threaten anything, nor to condition anything with anything that was not public. If it's publicly said -- you have to do it, you have to arrest Ratko Mladic and drop the charges against NATO countries if you want to be in the Partnership for Peace, then it's information, then it's not blackmail, then it's not a secret deal. That's how it's gonna be. And it's not always pleasant and always nice, but it's normal Serbia. - Voices from the O.R. ) I do not resign exclusively for Nishia from the Serbian Radical Party. The mark of this government, unlike many governments since Tito's time, is that this government is an internationally recognised factor, that it has communication with the world, not only with us distant but friendly countries, as you have baptized those countries whose names you cannot remember, some of you, but with relevant political factors. If we take seven last days, I've had a chance to speak to six prime ministers and one president. It's nothing special and it's no special success, it's a simple state of affairs and it's a normal Serbia. Someone was talking, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, about international arbitration resulting from privatisation, which has not been done properly. I do not know that there is such arbitration, and Minister Vlahovic will give you more information about the privatisation process. I know that there is an international arbitration in Paris and that it concerns Galenika, which is not privatised under the law that was passed in 2001, but by some agreement involving some representatives of the former regime. And this arbitration will be obtained from our side, as we are assured by lawyers representing both the Serbian state and the Republic Health Fund. Mrs. Pop-Lazic spoke about Dinkic and Labus, I don't comment, it's not the government, she complimented us not to know what's good about us, which she might commend, except that she said we were well-trained. Thank you for that. The issue is also her suspicion that Serbia can be the leader of the Balkans. I'm saying we're the leader today. If someone doesn't think so, let them tell me who you are, the leader of the Balkans today, if it isn't us. You said, in fact, it was said by Mrs Pop-Lazic, that a monopoly was introduced on imports of crude oil with unclear goals and that it was the most discreet decision of the government. What are the clear consequences, which are the objectives, so the goal was to achieve what the consequences of this decision are, is that oil smuggling has as much as it is present in the most developed countries, meaning very little, that the budget revenues from oil and oil taxes have been increased several times, that we can now freely say that the oil and oil products market has been stabilised. As you know, in the last three years, you don't have to buy Molotov cocktails on the corners of a liter and a half with something they say is gasoline, but you go to a gas station, pour fuel and pay for prices that are still the lowest in Europe. The approach will continue for several years until NIS privatisation. When NIS enters the privatisation, when we solve what is the problem with these two refineries and with Petrochemy and when even better competition is created here than it is now, then there will be no need for that measure which is controversial, but which has produced very clear results that are very favourable and the price of processing has been reduced otherwise in recent days. For the consumer basket, I also told you that it is clear that it is about 67 or 68% higher than it was three years ago, that the salaries are nominally higher about four times, which means that instead of the two and a half salaries needed for the consumer basket, it now takes a little less than one salary to satisfy that minimum consumer basket. Mrs Pop-Lazic said that citizens are statistically dead, and it was probably the ambition of the national rescue government or whatever it was called; no, they are not dead, thank you for asking, they are alive, they are not easy, they have a lot of problems, and most of these problems solve themselves, so that some of these problems can be solved by the Serbian government and that's normal Serbia: that you have problems, to solve problems, to meet new problems to solve them too. Then we had one 15 minutes of a completely unclear topic that I didn't realize, what it had to do with the Serbian government, and that's union co-operation, that there is no union co-operation, I accept, the Serbian government has done nothing to raise trade union co-operation, because it's simply not the work of the Serbian government. Was there a social dialogue? Yeah, more than there's ever been a social dialogue. Are some not satisfied with the quality of this social dialogue? Yeah. Who is not most pleased - us. Serbia's government is completely dissatisfied with social dialogue. So, there's a social-economic council, and I've been asked to ask that what proposals are put forward by this union that organises the protests today as a proposal for the agenda for the social-economic council. One point in three years, once they only suggested, one point, I don't remember, but there's going to be a minister, so he's going to tell you, and these protests have a lot of noise. And union protests are part of normal Serbia, but they've been initiated, not something that's happened in the last month, there's nothing epochal in privatisation, nor in social status, nor in tax reforms in a month, it's the only thing that's happened, it's that some other unions have been asking questions on social-economic councils in the presence of these trade unions, what with 40,000 square meters of state property used by the union, why, who sits, since the public secret that most of it was given in a few leases, which is, as I once said, against the law. Secondly, why would the union be funded from these sources and why just one union? I repeat, trade unions have their own union request that the government resign or be replaced, and that political parties support it, it is the twilight of politics in this country. Political parties should generate all political processes, and trade unions to identify themselves according to whom they will support. I understand the ambition of many to be union leaders and that was yesterday, yesterday there were clear shows of it. I have to tell you honestly that it's perfectly natural and my party wants to have good relations with a union that wants to help reforms in this country be implemented, with unions, not just one, with all unions who are willing to say -- yes, reforms are difficult, reforms are painful, but we know that we have to go through them so that we can accomplish what is a normal life in a normal state of Serbia. With trade unions saying we need to break the privatisation process, we can't co-operate and that's a civilization difference. If you need one of the simplest reasons why privatisation has to be done -- that's because social property, it never existed, it doesn't exist today in world practice, but it doesn't exist in theory. It's a complete union of this country at some point earlier and like many other things that are unique and bad, these things have to change. The privatisation process will continue, will have its positive and negative sides; the positive side is that we have over a billion and 200m euros this year, which is for the sake of comparisons, twice the privatisation income in all three countries that want to be members of the European Union, means, more than in Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania combined. These are not privatizations of suspicious couples or I don't know what it's called, or say which one it is, so let's find out, but there's no objections, not at arbitration, not in front of domestic courts, therefore, let's say that if there's a problem, let's say what the problems are. That billion and 200 million have brought in companies that we can love or not love, but we all recognize them. It means that it's big companies that aren't going into dirty business, or at least hope, or at least not on our territory, but on the other hand, it guarantees that we've managed to achieve some of our most important goals, and one of these goals is to stabilise the market, that foreign investors, when they invest here, are certain that it will pay off, that there will be no smuggling that will endanger their production and that they are certain that the profits they make here are from the country; and that's not a sale of national wealth, it's a completely natural thing. Everyone wants, and you do something, and you want to earn something, and it's normal for what you earn to be as big as possible, and it's normal for you to want to use it to increase your standard, and the role of the state is to make these revenues legal, to pay taxes on them, and that they go to those channels that are good for the development of a society. Therefore, there is no dilemma about whether privatisation is successful or not. It is successful, parallel with it it opens up some problems that are being solved and it is the job of the state; and it is a normal Serbia. We're also given an example of Hungary, as a negative example, I'd like you to tell me a positive example, if it isn't Serbia -- which I can't figure out for years that someone's been wanting to show their country as black as possible, as it can't even imagine, let alone there's a good example, so let's look at that example. Someone mentioned Slovenia earlier, is that the same Slovenia that you said, some of you, is going to die without us, is it the same, so how can that be a good example? Slovakia, as far as Slovakia is concerned, we have one three times faster development in these three years than they had in the first two years. Whatever comparison you want to have, take it and look at it, by the number of employees, by the income of privatisation and direct investment, by the average salary, we can all compare with any country, for the first 1,000 days none of them have achieved what has been achieved here. Is that enough? It's not enough, it's not enough, because we deserve it, and we have to be in a much better position, to do it, we all have to do it, not everyone, not to support the government, on the contrary, it never was, nor should it be, but everyone does their part of the job. I call on you from all political parties to implement the programme of your political parties. Each party programme says that you want Serbia to be a part of the European Union. Well, then vote in the House of Laws that have no political characteristics, which do not deal with this or that political party, but which are part of the agenda of those laws that we have to achieve to raise standards in our country and that we could then be an even better candidate for the European Union. I do not ask you to do anything that is contrary to your programs, just read your programs and apply what is written in your programs at the meetings of the Assembly. We will have much faster procedures for the adoption of all these laws that are necessary. By the way, 150 laws have been passed in this House for the last 1,000 days, on the government's proposal. If you look closely, it's one a week. If you add to this those laws that have been passed in the parliament of the state union, or before that in the parliament of the federal state, add another 150, that means that every third day a law has been passed. I thank you for that. That's the wave of the government's proposals. Thank you for voting for these laws, but it is small, because it is the bottom where we have been so deep that it takes us every day to pass one law that will not be affirmation of this government individually, or any political party, but the affirmation of Serbia that knows, which wants to be part of the European Union, which is a leader in the Balkans, but must be an even better leader, that it has even greater responsibility and that it is a more role model for all around us. We can do that together. We can do that every single one of them. It'll be slower and harder. We can argue about various topics, but let's make a common list of topics that we agree on. It would be terrible if, in Serbia, political parties, parliamentary, trade unions, media, NGOs, could not agree on the ten most important things and the ten most important things would no longer be a dilemma. Whoever he is, the Prime Minister, the opposition or anyone else, to say yes, that is Serbia's position. Most of the problems we have today from Kosovo through The Hague, the economy, everything else, we created ourselves. We have to admit that. We created our own business relationship with what is called national state interests. This government has repeatedly called for such a consensus. It has succeeded several times on the Kosovo and Metohija issues, but I'm afraid not quite frankly. Anyway, that's a good start. I urge you to continue this, not to vote on the government's trust vote, vote on how you intended the day the initiative was put forward. Don't vote for the government unless you're sure she can continue the reforms. Don't vote for this government if you think by voting that one of you is going to get some concessions and get some money, some employment, that he's going to be able to push someone of his own who's some kind of fit. No, don't vote for the government by thinking you've accomplished something for yourself, your own party, your family. Vote for the government if you think it's a continuation of the reforms that have begun. Vote for the government if you sincerely want Serbia to be a normal country. As Prime Minister, and most of the MPs sitting here, and we're going to figure out how big it is, they're not going to agree to any blackmail. They won't buy any MPs. He won't buy anything. He won't sell anything but what can be sold by law. We'll always be ready to report to you on that. Don't think you'll find a partner here who's willing to accept blackmail for any reason. There is no reason to be justified for me or anyone in this government to accept any blackmail. Please let us all understand together and start treating Serbia the way the international community treats Serbia today. [[Applause]] They're not blackmailing, they're not threatening, they're talking to us like they're talking to an equal partner. , maybe not with you, but they are talking to Serbia and they will talk to Serbia. [[growls]] By the way, the heads of the parliamentary groups, the members of the Security Committee, received this publication. [[Applause]] It is called "Albanian terrorism and organised crime in Kosovo and Metohija". I expect that in further discussion, through what the BIA did, it will be even more accessible and I will talk about it. This is the first time you have gathered information on the 189th page about what Albanian crime and terrorism is in Kosovo and Metohija. This is the joint work of the BIA, military services and services at the Foreign Ministry. This is the first time presented to you, our public and the international public. The government will continue to treat Kosovo and Metohija in the same way as it did in the first three years. Unfortunately, it is difficult there to improve the situation drastically by short notice, but even there is a state better than it was recently. As for the demonstration outside, someone broke the news that there were injuries. I know there's a meeting of the Security Committee that's about to report it. I call on you and repeat again, vote towards the government as you are defined to make Serbia normal. If you don't want her to be normal, vote against this government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33898	Thank you, Prime Minister. You in the Rules of Procedure? National MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the SSJ parliamentary group, is reporting according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33899	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, in order to calm down tensions and avoid incidents already taking place outside and around this assembly, I suggest we stop working today and order the authorities to order the police to withdraw and continue our work tomorrow. I think it would be best if after the end of this session negotiations with union representatives were to calm down and avoid unwanted incidents. In any case, I don't think it's appropriate for MPs to work today in this environment when there really has been an injury to several protesters, and of which at least two protesters are still in the hospital, according to a report from the Clinical Center. I think it would be best if we let them talk about it peacefully today and avoid possible consequences, I don't think that's in anyone's best interest. It would be best, I repeat, if the authorities had decided that the cordon police would withdraw, because it is not an environment in which this assembly should work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33900	National MP Borislav Pelevic tabled a proposal under Article 94. The Rules of Procedure, which he missed out on. Before I put the motion to a decision, I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to decide on. This is a quorum for work, and we need 126 to decide. I realize we have a quorum to work with, but we don't have a quorum to decide. Another application by the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33901	If for a good part of the MPs who support the government is a normal Serbia in which hundreds of meters from this assembly, where you work so peacefully and carefreely, only because your fellow citizens are going to protest and that the police cordons are preventing them for the first time since 5 October 2000 in a peaceful protest that does not endanger anyone's safety, then it is an honor to you. I, like other MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, let you "work in such a normal Serbia" and build such a normal Serbia, in which anyone who raises his voice against the government will be beaten and the cordons will defend democratic power. We MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, until the cordons are removed and allowed those who do not endanger anyone's security to protest, cannot sit here with you and participate in something, in a peaceful debate, which you say is building normal Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33902	This was an abuse of a pay phone, since no member of the Rules of Procedure was mentioned who was injured. People's MP Zoran Krasic came to the floor. A Rules of Procedure or a Replic? On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33903	As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group for this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33904	I know you're an authorised representative, but I'm asking if it's a replica or a Rules of Procedure. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33905	I would warn those who chair this session of the National Assembly that there is also a member of our 235 Rules of Procedure, who prescribes the work of the Security Service. In this building are persons who are not the official security of the National Assembly. Armed persons are located, and special units are located near the National Assembly building. According to the inscriptions on his back, the commander is either Radosavljevic or the one he was digging, so he dug himself up, Lukic. We have already warned several times that the ambulance works, transports injured, and it would be good to replace laughter with seriousness, because we heard a few weeks ago pledoies about normal Serbia, and it is not normal for someone to laugh when injured persons fall 50 metres from here. It would be good if the president of the National Assembly, in accordance with his powers in the Rules of Procedure, removed all persons who are not authorized to be in this building with weapons, and I would ask, or would ask, but would ask, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that the government remove these barricades and this security guard on the street, because normal Serbia should respect its voters. Normal Serbia must not prohibit the right for every citizen to publicly criticise the government and normal Serbia to look completely different from the one we just heard some lullaby about here. Please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, correct what has been broken, and since your answer is likely to be in that familiar style, let the Administrative Committee be made clear on this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33906	Of course, there are no injuries to Article 235, since there are no other persons except those who are authorized to provide the National Assembly. So I went through the same hallway, I went into the O.R., and I didn't see a single face. Of course, if you are not satisfied with the answer, the Administrative Board will also give an answer. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a proposing official for this part of the agenda, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33907	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it seems that from day to day we will have to extend the list of reasons why we are asking for a vote of mistrust to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But because of this event, indeed today, when trade unions protest on the streets of Belgrade, and police cordons provide the National Assembly, beat up unions, the prime minister should resign or at least the police minister, or at least call on Sreten Lukic, who is still the commander of Public Security in Serbia. As for us Serbian radicals, and I suppose most MPs in the National Assembly, can agree with us that we must stand behind those who exercise their fundamental rights. You brought these people out into the streets because they're hungry, barefoot, because they're in need of demonstration and that you're harassing them, beating them, and emergency services have to intervene, only to you and no one else. We, as representatives of the people, must respond to that. We have no other way here in Parliament. You probably have another way, and some that you think is more appropriate, but it is hypocritical to call themselves union representatives in the Assembly to talk to them, while at the same time the government, which is the only partner for talks with trade unions, is using its authority through the police department to brutally deal with trade unions. I came out to say this for the sake of the public of Serbia who is following this session and to well-intentioned once again the government and the prime minister, because I think this is counterproductive, especially at the same time that parliament should consider this proposal and the initiative to vote on its mistrust. If he wants to defend himself, he needs to give up these methods of dealing with unions that went out on the streets. Your statement, Mr. Prime Minister, that the attempt by the unions to install themselves here tonight in front of the National Assembly building and to set up tents for the reason that they probably ran out of vines is extremely humiliating for all workers. You shouldn't have let yourself do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33908	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33909	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I appeal to the Rules of Procedure, which determines the public of the work of the National Assembly, and since we have heard of this speaker on several occasions the thesis about what happened during the National Assembly session, I have an obligation to clarify on the basis of this same public what the conclusions are and what has been established by the Committee on the Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was not attended by union representatives, but rather by the talks with representatives of the Alliance of Independent Unions. So, without the police's permission, the union organised the event in Nikola Pasic Square. Since no authorisation has been given legally without incident, police have allowed the rally and reached agreement with Mr. Andric and Mr. Smiljanic of the union leadership to protest to the Klusa, which is about 100 meters away from the National Assembly. That's where the security detail was. The security line was breached and police intervened by pushing that group of unionists towards the park. At this point we have information, and it was information on the Security Committee, about three injured. All three of them were hurt more easily. So, to avoid public harassment, the opposition is trying to gain the impression that a civil war is happening outside the National Assembly. So it's about expressing union dissatisfaction. It's not according to the law, but the police, of course, allowed that meeting. There's been a minor incident. Fortunately, no one was seriously injured. Two injured were found at the Emergency Center, one in orthopedics. According to our information, two have already been fired, and the conclusions of the Security Committee, which is a representative of all of us and whose structure is composed and constructed in the same way as this Parliament, have two conclusions. The first conclusion is that the chief police inspector undertakes to inform us urgently about everything that has happened in front of parliament, so on the actions of both the union and members of the Home Office, and the second, that hospitals report injuries that were committed today in front of the National Assembly building. So nothing's alarming. It is natural for the opposition to use the situation for political action. I think the debate should continue precisely because the union's request was, therefore, the Alliance of Independent Unions and its president, that the government should resign. This is the point at which it is discussed, and after this point, the vote will also be put to the vote by working on this session and we are fulfilling the union's request for parliament to declare confidence in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33910	The word is given by MP Stevan Z. Guduric, an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33911	You have missed, Mrs. Micic, a dozen times today to warn the prime minister not to use ugly words, because it is not normal to say it is normal to hire, because as far as I know it is only being fired in Serbia. One tiny Beocin of 15,500 inhabitants has 1,100 fired during this wonderful government and during the wonderful Privatisation Act of Mr. Vlahovic, and then this wonderful Privatisation Agency doesn't control at all...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33912	Mr. Gooduric, we have 10 hours to discuss. You didn't get the right to a replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure and tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33913	I took it to explain why you violated a member...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33914	Tell me which member. I'll explain. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33915	Let me explain first, and then you'll explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33916	No, you don't have to explain. Just call a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33917	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33918	Call a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33919	He's a 97. - offensive expressions. It's offensive to tell people about employment, so they can relax. It's offensive to tell people that they're getting paid. Where I live, Mr. Prime Minister, that's where the salaries are received because there's no impact on you, so that's one happy environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33920	Mr. Guduric, article 97 is a straight line. You didn't get the right to a replica. Please leave the pay phone. Do they want to take part in the debate of MPs who have issued an opinion at the Committee meetings? These are MPs of the Free Adzic. He's not there. National MP Zoran Ćirkovic? Do you want to participate in the debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday at a session of the Committee on Education, the truth is that I've issued an opinion. This is where we talk about the government's mistrust. I'm also a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, which is in session today. I also intend to draw an opinion here. Since I'm not used to hearing a lot of talk, actually all I want to say is I'll say it in one piece, then be patient, that the work of this board is over, so I'll take my opinion and I'll talk about things. I really don't want to report the same thing twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33922	You were right to speak this time, but good. We're moving on to the debate of the heads of parliament. First, MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33923	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Prime Minister and part of the members, I must tell my colleague Bojan Pajtic that on the streets of Belgrade, at least here in this street outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is no civil war, but the police are beating the unions. They beat them and it's not true that three are hurt, there are more, but eventually we'll hear an official report about the whole story, but that they're beaten, beaten, and we shouldn't close our eyes in front of that fact, or pretend to be blind, or claim that it doesn't exist. Let me tell you right now, last night, the representatives of the Union were at the Socialist Party of Serbia, as they were with other parliamentary parties, and we supported their demands because we started looking two and a half years ago, for a very reason, you will hear. As far as privatisation is concerned, we're going to prove it, it really is a robbery, terrible, and it really is bad for the employees. And the honeymoon between you and the Independent Union passed, a honeymoon that lasted two and a half years when you were trying to agree on the amendments, and about the Labour and Social Programme Act, so none of it was and apparently they see in you, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for a reason, an obstacle to work, for profit, for a better life and for union rights. You'll talk to them about it. I also owe this to the public to tell both the Serbian Parliament and the citizens. Our parliamentary group, the Socialist Party of Serbia, will vote for the shift of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we believe it has reversed Serbia. There is no economic and social development, institutions do not exist or are not respected, the Constitution is violated, laws are not applied or selectively to DOS and others, justice and justice are unthinked. Serbia was divided by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the DOS, quarreled. The affairs, crime and corruption rule Serbia, and there is no responsibility. He's got everything but no responsibility. Companies are being sold for reasons, the rich in Serbia are becoming even richer and the poor are getting poorer. We have lost our dignity as a state and as a nation, and these are some very simple facts. The Prime Minister said in the media the other day that Serbia is now living better. If he meant DOS then he's right, and if he meant the rest of Serbia then he certainly didn't. Data and facts are the best way to deny it. There are about 1,000 people unemployed in Serbia, the unemployment rate is 30%. Of those who work over 200,000 did not receive salaries for several months, and new ones are announced from 400 to 700,000 unemployed. Pensioners live on the edge of misery because of a new way of harmonising pensions. A huge number of Serbian citizens live in poverty. The economy almost doesn't exist, and the production rate is down. Why doesn't DOS know that Serbia lives badly? Because in Serbia now we have two worlds, one virtual in which DOS lives and the other in which the rest of Serbia lives, most Serbian citizens. The government or DOS, however, as if they do not live in Serbia. They drive an expensive car with darkened glass, from a meeting to a meeting, from one conference to another, an opening when it comes to, without contact with the citizens, without knowing about their needs, hopes, expectations. They don't care about wages because they don't make money in the government. That's one of the ministers I said. Almost all as members of different boards, owners or co-owners of different companies, whether they are guided by son, wife, godfather or friend, have high incomes. In the DOS world, of course, there is absolute control of media information. Orwell's big brother sits in the Communications Bureau and controls Serbia completely. DOS, government representatives, don't strip off the media, just circulate on three channels of state television, and on these private ones, and then those coboys of the city, independent, plus the press. After so much watching and reading themselves, they infected themselves with the virus of self-love and believed that what they show is really true: that in Serbia there is a better life and that honey and milk flow. And it's not like that, for Serbia, unfortunately, everything is the opposite. According to DOS, Serbian citizens now live better, only citizens know nothing about it. That's why DOS educates them so much from night to night, from Sunday to Sunday, from one TV show to another. They'll have to believe it all, even if it's gone. It's got to be like DOS says. How did it start? The three-year introduction of a democratic power began by recklessly stealing and falsifying the elections, now it is no longer a problem to prove, violently taking over the authorities, or with a coup carried out on October 5th. The Federal Assembly, the RTS building, the Ethnographic Museum, the City Committee building in Belgrade, was burned. Under the watchful eye of his mentors from abroad and their abundant financial assistance, counterpart Bushetic proved yesterday, out of over 80m dollars, violent and brutal measures, through crisis headquarters, and often with the help of weapons, the conquest of power continued. Thus, the National Bank of Serbia and Yugoslavia, taken over RTS, customs, business banks and the most significant public enterprises and services, educational, scientific and cultural institutions and means of information were won. More than 40,000 employees who were not politically alike and at the will of the DOS authorities were replaced and fired. Many are facing criminal and judicial disputes today. In particular, the members and managers of the SPS are persecuted. The most common cleanups are carried out in judicial authorities, the Public Security Service, the Yugoslav Army, public enterprises and services, educational and scientific institutions and public information tools. To remind me of what DOS was saying back then. At that time, the DOS promised Serbian citizens respect for the Constitution and the law, the rule of law, the construction of democratic institutions, economic development, prosperity and a better life, with generous financial assistance from abroad, are those famous six and a half billion dollars. He also pledged to build a democratic, fair and responsible state, which would protect the poor and encourage those who create, as well as that the state would not be a protector of the unemployed and criminals and a front for the wealth of state and party officials. He promised to put a smile back on Serbia's face and that it would be a boring life for its citizens. Over the past three years, DOS has shown that there is no, nor was it intended to address vital state interests, economic and social problems of society and citizens. After all, the government has said it itself many times -- what does it have to do with us, we're not here to solve anything, we're a trafficker. As a trafficker, they should shut down and leave Serbia's citizens to choose a new government that will take care of it. From instruments in the hands of financial and political and often criminalised elites, the government itself has become involved in destroying its country. Serbia is in a deep sunflower. Living hard, and it is clear that for most citizens life will be even harder. Business activities are almost dead. Now we come to what government representatives don't like to hear, and that's data, because they have their own special data that they take out of special drawers. Industrial production has been dropping or stagnation for three years. In the first half of 2003, it was down by 3.8% compared to last year's, and even 16% of the average three-year level from 1996-1999, when we were under economic and political sanctions. We are the most in charge of Europe, dear gentlemen, and among the five most in charge of the world. Over a million people are unemployed. New layoffs are being announced. Thousands of companies are in bankruptcy and there are about 470,000 workers without a job. The employees on average work about 3.5 hours. Nearly 200,000 workers, even though they're employed, don't get paid for months. About two million people live in poverty. The Institute for Statistics of Serbia-Montenegro, I don't even know what it's called, published data that the production rate is 55.9% lower than in 1991. Hey, guys, back in 1991! When the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia starts comparing the data now with the data of the 1990s, when we were under sanctions, isolation, with a million refugees, and when we had the bombing for 78 days, really a man has to wonder who's normal here. How can these data even be compared? Regardless of all this, with the help of best man and brother-in-law privatisation, DOS has been destroying our businesses and production and the sale of natural and social resources created for decades. A corrupt and incompetent government has no intention of getting the country out of a political and economic crisis. We heard information that we received a billion and a few euros from privatisation. It even boasts the government has privatised 900 companies, as many as 900. It does not mention, for example, that sugars have been sold for two or three euros, of course, to friends. Not to mention that cement plants in Serbia, Beocinska, Paracinska and Koseric were sold for $139m, while in 1996 only 140m was offered for Beocinska. And how degutively, in the context of this data, it sounds like when this government is trying to talk about selling Telekom, when it's from one company, 49% of the company's sales, it's got a billion and a nine and a few million marks. (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) Yes. In addition to a billion and five hundred thirty-six million marks, which were received from Italians and Greeks, there are 395,177,328 marks that have been returned through interest by the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Why are they back? Because that money is invested in Serbia's economy. We get to one sum of a billion and nine hundred. Look out, out of 49% of the company, we have a billion euros, and they boast about 900 companies and a billion euros. That's very interesting. Where does that money go? That's the effect of DOS authorities. I know this isn't sweet, but it has to be. That's why I said, when you're talking to yourself, this is the ideal world, the pink world. But reality is very different and you should hear it. Better now than in the election, because the election is here. In just three years, the DOS managed to abolish the SRJ and create nearly two independent states -- Serbia-Montenegro. I had a friend who came from Atlanta the other day and said he came from Atlanta via Munich and Belgrade, went to Montenegro and waited at the border for 15 minutes. He says I've been through the whole world and I've had to wait down there for 15 minutes. We honk that relationships are fantastic, better than ever. Kill God. I will not even mention the application of the Security Council resolution around Kosovo. I have to tell the Prime Minister now: in the last session, when we talked about the declaration, we talked about something that should be the manner of all politicians, the practice of all politicians, to know what state and national interests are. Mr. Prime Minister, please teach your ministers not to speak about Kosovo's status, to talk about Resolution 1244 and the essential autonomy of Kosovo. What will happen, that path, but many of your ministers are constantly talking about Kosovo's status. Status established. If they don't know him, that's another thing. If they don't want to talk about it, that's another thing, but the truth is, you have to say it. The subjective attitude of the new government towards the findings of the Western governments has manifested itself in counter-constitutional and illegal arrests of Slobodan Milosevic and surrender to The Hague tribunal. Shameful trade and kidnapping of the president of the Republic has been conditioned by obtaining funding from donor countries and by a silent promise from the current government that they will amnesty NATO's aggressor countries of responsibility and compensation for war damages of over $100 billion. Has anyone heard from a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the past two and a half years asking for or mentioning compensation for war damage? No, nor will they hear it, for that word is not spoken in this government. The entire political system is almost destroyed. With constant violations of the constitution and laws, the collapse of institutions, the subjugation of justice and the media to the needs of the executive government, the paralysis of the work of the National Assembly, Serbia is sinking into an ever-increasing crisis. The post of president of Serbia has practically been abolished. The judiciary is in government service, achieving party interests of the Democratic Party and its satellites. The electoral will of citizens, especially at the local level, is constantly being violated by the introduction of forced administrations in municipalities where DOS lost in the elections. It is a shame, but it must be said, the DOS shame, that in these two and a half years, three years, a thousand days of government, the government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced over 35 forced administrations in municipalities, wherever they feel they are losing power, the most effective way is to introduce a forced administration. We received information from our colleagues from Vrnjačka Banja that these days, as one DOS furniture has been replaced, namely, there are now more DOS furniture, original DOS, second DOS, third DOS, fourth DOS, going to the deputy minister to conduct an emergency administration, which is the government's manner. The government of Serbia, and that is a fact, is achieving the party's interests of the Democratic Party, its satellites and its employers. In doing so, the Constitution is being violated, and it is reckless, of course, laws. According to national and national interests, they are extremely irresponsible. Its members, members of the government, are the bearers of increasingly frequent political and financial affairs; in this government they are tied to eight ministers. The affairs rocked Serbia, and we didn't get an answer to any of them. Remember the affair about Momčel Perisic, the affair about Minister Raseta, Janjusevic, Kolesar, and then we hear the story, he says - he is not an official of the government. And who can in the government if he's not a senior government official to hold a press conference and make it public to give information that isn't true because he denied himself. Is it possible in this country that someone at the age of 31-32, with medium professional training, has property of several million marks and that everything is in order. Then the Prime Minister promises us -- it'll be over in three days, and it doesn't go three but thirty-three and nothing. Nor does anyone mention it, now is the time. They'll probably publish that, after the election, a report will be published, not to mention the other minister who mentioned that he would resign if illegalities were established and now he is wise to remain silent because he knows that illegalities were there. The crimes, old and new, remain unclear. Crime is on the rise, counter-constitutional wartime has been used to prosecute and arrest Socialists and discipline the media. I know you don't like it, but you all know it. Why don't you shut up? Only the Socialists were arrested at that time of emergency, one vice president, member of the Executive Board, two board members, and you know what the papers were publishing back then. No one's ever denied it. I also asked the Minister of the Interior here in front of you about it, and I didn't get an answer, as well as the board. Of course, now we have to pretend like it wasn't even there. Thanks to DOS, the country lost its political, economic independence and stability, while citizens lost their legal and social security. The government and the DOS have not fulfilled the promise and expectations of most citizens and its voters. Instead of creating conditions to address vital state interests, economic and social problems, the DOS is fighting for its naked survival in power. Political and financial oligarchy controls Serbia's political scene, the country's main institutions and financial flows, and of course the government. The country is not only in a temporary recession, but in the face of very serious political, economic and social problems, with very negative consequences. Serbia and its citizens were also in difficult political and material situations, but they never had such a power that willingly consents to political and economic occupation and to rob their country and people. I have to tell you, we didn't even know that this initiative would come to the Assembly's agenda, but we Socialists made a white book -- the impact of the three-year DoS government -- the Sunday of Serbia -- with a range of data that say how effective this government is and what it has done to make Serbia at the edge of the ambis. In the coming days, what your mood and interest in data are, I will be very happy to go out and talk about the data. Yesterday I heard a fellow MP, replicated about the state of health -- don't, how come. Here today the Prime Minister says - the situation is catastrophic. Who's responsible? The DOS is responsible. The DOS wasn't responsible yesterday. So, not only within DOS that there is division, but unfortunately for Serbia, there is a catastrophic effect of DOS. This government has essentially already fallen and on the day that it failed to remove these points from the agenda and this government knows and buys time to ensure its existence in political trades. But Serbia now knows and there is no secret, as much as this government has been, a day, two, three months, five months, it will not be the result of political parties' agreement within the DOS over some reform move, about some project, about some improvement in Serbia. No, it will be the result of an agreement on the distribution of power and power of what interests Serbia most. This government has fallen, whether you admit it or not. And any other future government will be better than this and there is no point in talking about the government's reform and other moves because they were gone. When you listen to this government, you hear a very simple answer, it says - we are not in charge of it, we are not asking for it, and they are doing very well in something that is the reality of Serbia that this little social wealth and value that remains sold at a lower price and that people's pockets are filled, whether in government or on the side, we will find out after the next elections, when it is determined how this government worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33924	Right on line, MP Zoran Krasic. Replication to the prime minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33925	Although I have plenty of time in this debate, the Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to replicate the Prime Minister's speech. Not only has the Serbian Radical Party been mentioned, but some facts have been expressed that are not true, as well as some very wrong views. Before I specifically point to the basis of the replica and what we're replicating, I have to say that the Prime Minister has surprised us all. No word has been sent about any concrete fact or concrete assessment of the situation in which the State has been in place since the DOS took over. A system of replacement thesis is used for defence, but this system of replacement thesis is so dangerous because it promotes a kind of Nietzs nihilism, because all of this is declared normal, and at the beginning it is said that the Prime Minister is not satisfied with the government marketing, that the government's marketing is bad. It's a little weird, after so much media, winning the media, that government marketing is bad. But if you take into account the fact that after every step the Prime Minister comes forward for days, there's a series of articles that analyze these speeches, attitudes, and it takes the elements of the ridiculous Olympics, then it's no wonder that marketing is bad, because give the government a microphone and you've solved the problem. Serbia, it says, has been normal since the DOS came in, it is not perfect, it is not rich, and it is not normal for those who are looking for a government shift. Unfortunately, neither the president of the assembly intervened over the insult of the MPs. I don't mind that, I read a stenogram and what I'm saying is written in a stenogram, as if they're not normal or those who support the union. Everyone has the right to support the union in his union and labour requirements. As far as political requirements are concerned, the Serbian Radical Party does not support anyone, because the Serbian Radical Party, as a political party, exists to express its political views and come into a position to exercise power as a political party. We are not concerned with politics so that someone else can exercise power, but we can exercise power. He says -- a little more police, that's normal. There used to be 100,000 cops, so two and a half years ago we found out there were about 23,000, it's said to be small. Well, it's normal to have more cops, I agree. He says unemployment is a normal phenomenon. Some citizens appreciate if it's normal. It's said... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. I've got time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33926	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33927	I didn't say they weren't normal people who put up with this initiative. I'm not competent to decide their normality or abnormality, but the government has appeared here on your initiative, which is a clear answer that we consider this initiative legitimate and that's why we're here. Normally, we're going to use it to fix the marketing that we were definitely bad at, it's bad because some people are overly understanding democracy, so they said, come on, let's do it now, let the opposition get the space itself, which is good to start with, but it's not good for the country itself. As anyone will vote, I've said it very clearly, I've repeated it many times. It's definitely that what we live in is a normal state, with all of its bad, less bad, good and excellent conditions in areas of particular interest. So the problem is that you understand -- those who said earlier that we had lost our independence now, our integrity, that someone else was managing, that the economic stability of citizens was lost, their safety -- when it was, do you remember when it was? Not when you were safe and you were in power, but when the citizens were safe. Just to add, to remind you that in 1991 there were no sanctions, that in 1991 there was no bombing and that unfortunately, it is now the economic scale of this economic activity to 55% from 1991, but you dropped it 30%, from 1991 to 2000. And unfortunately, it will take us, as we have said, ten years to get back to 1990, and unfortunately, it is not the success or failure of this government, it is the founding state that you have left us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33928	The word came from Economy and Privatisation Minister Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33929	Dear Madam President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia certainly knocks down all the transition records, but, gentlemen of the Socialists and gentlemen of the radicals, one record cannot break, and that is a record in the number of cabinet members. The previous government of Mr. Mirko Marjanovic had 35 members, five vice-presidents, six even ministers without portfolios, who worked before noon, probably, and then went home, and even 23 ministers. An extremely large cabinet and an "extremely impressive effect in the previous period". I just listened to an opposition MP who spoke about the poor results of the DOS government and compared it to the previous period, I really don't know what Serbian citizens should understand, does anyone here in this assembly believe that it is possible to do a lobotomy, complete amnesia of that period, and make Serbian citizens forget what period they were going through in the 1990s? Gentlemen of the Socialists, wherever you're going to privatize, for that privatisation and it stinks today. You privatized Telecom, six years later, the Italian authorities were chasing thieves who participated in the privatisation. You privatized Galenika in a way that one dinar did not enter this country. Ten years after that, international arbitration in Paris can't solve the problem you've created, and that's your impressive effect on privatisation. The sanctions didn't happen to us, the bombing didn't happen, the destruction of the economy didn't happen, it was the result of your impressive, wise state policy that brought down production. Of course, for the sake of the public, "the beauty of this wise state policy" we all enjoyed together. Unfortunately, in the '90s, I don't know where you came from. Did you come from Serbia in the '90s, did you come from Germany, and then compare the situation with 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. The beauty of your wise state leadership of this country has unfortunately had the opportunity to feel on our own backs, to feel the robbery that you've done to us, I mean stealing old foreign exchange savings, to feel the robbery that you've done with phantom banks, with Jazda and Dafin, to feel the destruction of this country's energy system, and that on October 5th DOS didn't beat that winter of 2000 we wouldn't have electricity. Over the entire ten years, you, my dear Socialists, for ten years, are very important to know what this government inherited from the moment it was formed, over ten years, you were destroying the economic structure of Serbia, you were destroying the standard. Have you forgotten how many pensions have been owed in this country, have you forgotten how many wars for social giving have been owed, have you forgotten those famous hyperinflation, when even the last straw whisper has been stolen from the population, have you forgotten the wars you did not wage, but you have lost them neatly, have you forgotten the destruction in 1999, which you brought to your wise policy? That's what DOS inherited the moment it formed the government. Let's see what we have today -- today we have something that you don't want to see, we have a privatisation that's not mafia, it's not uncontrollable, it's not in agreement, it's not in the way you privatized Telecom, I'm very sorry, it's public, it's transparent, for which television regularly broadcasts all the auctions, where it's known who the customers are. And not the public suddenly surprised, so who's that customer of Telecom, without any negotiations, and don't, please, compare Telecom to the companies that have been privatized over the past few years. When you sold Telecom, here, for your information alone, I know that the truth hurts, and I know that when the truth is told, it is then the most excruciating, because it hurts, but when you sold Telecom in 1997, when Croatia, which is a far smaller country than Serbia, sold 35% of the shares in its Telecom, relatively according to the number of subscribers, received 70% more money. And why is that? Because there's a public tender. Why don't you let the competition show up and make some real strategic investors show up and compete, who can do more. Why are you criticizing the concept of privatisation, a process that runs without affairs? Because it is normal for you to have company directors sitting in the government because it was normal for you to have your prime minister's company import gas from Russia, without any tender, because it was normal for you to have all public procurement run without any tender, because it was normal for you to have no law on public procurement, that you do not have law to prevent money laundering, that you do not have other anti-corruption laws that this government has passed in the second and third year of office. In Central Europe, there is no example of the government that passed anti-corruption laws on public procurement in the third and second years of its mandate. Don't cry too much for industrial production, because I understand that you have a historical defect of understanding what an industrial volume of production is. Production is not also a state-owned, centralist economy so that something is produced by force that no one will buy. It produces something that has a market, that has a market pass and that brings new value. Let me tell you, in the past two years alone, in 2002 and 2003, losses in Serbia's economy have been drastically reduced. That's the quality of restructuring. Let me remind you, the Development Fund, which you called upon, out of $350 million back, only got 12% of the money invested. Where's the rest? It collapsed in an inefficient economy. Are those credits to boost the economy? Is that how you imagine restructuring? Besides, you've shown what a restructuring of the economy looks like. That's what the citizens felt best in their pocket. They felt waiting in the oil line, for milk, for bread, they felt them pushing cars all day to fill one tank of fuel. They felt it through the constant shortages, they felt it when you robbed them. So the quality of production is important and it's something called the markets of economies and when we say it fell, the volume of industrial production, it's true, but it's not terrible. It's down to that production, and there's no producing what's not going on in the market. This government has a whole series of results to be proud of. The Ministry of Business and Privatisation is proud to point out what it has done in privatisation, and we are proud to point out that we have no affair in privatisation. We have calls from those who want to get better conditions than others. No one gets privileged terms. It'll all go public. For everything there will be competition and who, gentlemen, who gives a better social programme, a better investment programme, will win the tenders. Any buyer, he didn't have to know either the prime minister, or the minister, or the other government ministers, or the civil servants, or the political party heads, was supposed to make only the best offer. Gentlemen, my dear, the social programme you are all so invited to, the social programmes in Serbian privatisation are the very good side that distributes the social costs of transition to as many participants as possible in privatisation. Social programmes, such as those in Serbia's tender privatisation, did not exist in any other country. Do you know that privatisation of companies in other countries has been notified so that no conditions are set before the buyer. The setting of conditions is not in the spirit of building a market economy that I hope we all stand for. Therefore, the social programmes, I say responsibly, and how they amortise the problems that exist in our economy through transition, amortise the costs of transition. What is very important, the ministry and the government have extremely good co-operation with the unions. We sat with the Independence Union two days ago, with the Independent Union and the Association. The doors were never closed or the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, as well as any other ministries. We talk to these people. We're telling them the truth, so far as we can, we can't get out of here, because from here, the process will be compromised, the transition will be compromised. You don't need to call the public on populist passwords, on the floscules that don't say anything, on pure demagogy, on union populism, and you've been read by the public a long time ago. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33930	Replica, MP Zoran Micovic, at the presentation of MP Zarko Obradovic, was mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33931	Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't report to my esteemed colleague, Zarka Obradovic, on the line for mentioning my name, but I'm simply forced to do it. I'm the president of the municipality of Arilla in the second term now. When I first came with a team who took over the city, then we only found debts and it's not whining about the previous government, that's what I'm building on. That was the state we've been talking about here for days. Those people weren't to blame. I spoke to the Ministry of Local Self-Government, and where you were the deputy, and I only got one memo saying, Mr. President, did you provide the SRS with the premises? That's all I got. At that time, the budget of the municipality of Aria was 600,000 marks, and today it is four million. Today in Ariel, three construction firms can't finish the jobs we've already paid them for, they can't make it out of here and do the plumbing, and they're already paid for it. Three of the largest asphalt companies in the region. You're talking about the lack and disadvantages of where we live now. I'll give you this information. According to the driver's barometer, one institute that is not at all in favour of the government, today you have information that imports of newly manufactured vehicles or second-hand vehicles have been imported in the past 12 years, most sold to the people of Serbia. You didn't know that this summer, in August, you couldn't get a single flight arrangement anywhere in the world, from where it came from. It's a conuktur barometer that showed it's true. You didn't tell the people here that a physicist could be bought for four times less hours at work than it was then, the price of shoes and asphalt remained even less than before October 5th. Salaries went up four times. I'm not saying here, nor are the ministers, nor is the prime minister, to live well and well, but to live better. Who won't see it, gentlemen, whether it's malicious or unfair, I don't know what else I could have told you. In addition, there were 5,000 vehicles passing through the League of Ibar Highway on October 5th, and now that number is 21,000, Mr. Dear. That's what the people drive here with. The need for highways is also very present. By that, you can't threaten a car 20 kilometers away that's coming to meet us. Try Belgrade to do that. You're saying it's getting harder and worse. I'm sorry about this replica, dear colleague, I'm going to appreciate every good and well-intentioned call from this pay phone, but come on, motherfucker, so somebody's standing behind us, someone who's given us confidence to address the people here, someone who's promised to start doing private companies. I have something to brag about here in front of you. Come to Ariel and look, tomorrow we receive Mr. Micunović in a company in Ariel that manufactures computers. I will remind you of the words of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic that we will become a leader in the Balkans, that in our Serbia we will produce computers that will be competitive throughout the world. Come make sure of Ariel. (President: Time. [[Applause]] Mr. Light, here comes the replica, this is a rare opportunity when I went out for the pay phone. We sell them to Slovenians, we're better than "Fructals", people want to work, thousands of companies are there and they're all privatized and there's no objections. There's only for those that haven't been sold. We started one sale with 12 million, and it was sold for 65. No one complained about it. There are companies that have a load and it's very hard to sell, of course. Everyone will buy what's better and what they need. Here you go, if it's what it's for, then buy it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33932	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the proposing representative, came forward. After the promoter, the promoter has the championship, then the replica of MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33933	Short, please, Comrade Vlahovic, I hope you don't mind me calling you that, because the Democratic Party is a member of the Socialist International, so it's common to say so, mate, is that so. Now, as far as we're concerned, we never needed anti-corruption laws, nor will we ever need them. Do you know why? Because we can't be corrupt and because we're invulnerable. You have to pass anti-corruption laws, because most of the government members are corrupt, starting with the lady, and, moreover, honor the exceptions. We'll talk about the exceptions later. Use one sport termology here, since you have a slow club, including Mr. Covic, including Mr. Batic, and use not defensive, but an offensive defense and you believe that the attack is the best defense. You're going back to something that was. The fact that it was very bad was not good and this court was given in the 2000 elections. We have nothing left to remember and to remember what happened in 2000 and how difficult it was for you. If it was hard for you to get involved, and you knew what you were coming for, you knew you weren't able to record the result, you should have thanked and said - thank you very much, I can't do it. Not to tell us now that the problems before Christ have been accumulated, so let's just say, I'm washing my hands now and I haven't been able to do what I thought I should do, because I don't have a good starting position. Therefore, we cannot go back to Milosevic over and over again to the government of national unity. That's where the government was shot down in the election. Now this government is on the table, it's being shot down not only by us but by citizens in Serbia and that's why you're defending your government. You're doing better than that. Believe me, I'm not much of a sports expert. You probably are a little better, but here's a well-intentioned advice. Focus on what we place on your burden and defend yourself professionally, and not just politically. After all, if you need to hold some rally, schedule some rally. Here are the people standing here, already gathered, and without a call, just go ahead and repeat all of this to them again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33934	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33935	Thank you. I must mention that this information, which my colleague Micovic is reporting on both his replica and Mr. Minister's replica, is incorrect. He shouldn't have mentioned Mrs. Pop-Lazic. You should mention her, so she'll answer you about those things that happened. As for Mr. Vlahovic's replica, I must say that he passed the exam and ran for minister in the new shadow government. None of what I said he didn't deny it. The whole story was demagogue, what was going on, what was going on, what was going on. The story ended on October 5, 2000. You've had plenty of time. If there were any irregularities to file criminal charges. We know the minister has been urging the prosecution to file criminal charges. We have witnesses, but it's an interesting story that we didn't hear anything that denied what I said. There's a decline in production, there is. There's an increase in unemployment, there is. There's a drop in foreign investment, there is. Most economists in this state of Serbia, apart from the resolute minister, agree that this is disastrous for Serbia's economy. It can't be more catastrophic. Cementar, I didn't hear they were denied. I know that when this period is over, as we heard the other day about those Seashell and the Marshall Islands and those commissions, we'll find out why these companies were sold below the price. We'll find out why three of the biggest cementists are given $140 million, and then only one is sold at that price. We'll find out why they sell these products below the price. We'll find out why they're selling for three euros, and then someone in this case is trying to say that God knows what kind of privatisation it is. As for the privatisation of companies that were carried out under the previous law, here's the "Apathian brewery", here's the "Hemofarm", here's "Toza Markovic", so go upstairs to these workers or over there to Babic, and explain to him that it's no good. Explain to him that it's bad for workers to own actions. Explain to him that this is wrong, that it is disastrous for Serbia. You explain that to him and then go out for this pay phone and say, "That's right." Explain necessarily, since I think he'll be interested. As for Telecom, I understand Berlusconi, as you well know, that the intrapartial story in Italy is being transferred to Prodi - Berlusconi field, with us. There was a commission coming, coming, coming, but for nothing. A billion and 536 million were sold, 49% Telecom, and 683,972 million marks were paid by the Italians and 529,453 pounds by the Greeks and 323 million. A billion 536 million plus this, for free, Mr. Minister. Now we've seen the scenario that's going to happen. Government representatives will best defend the government by talking not about what the government is doing, but rather trying to talk about what happened in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33936	The word has a folk ambassador, Stevan G. Guduric. The members of the government, the vice-presidents of the government and the president have the same rights as the MPs. Mr. Minister, you're the one who caused the replica. As a member of the government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33937	I appreciate the offer to move to the shadow government, but let me, thank you. You are already in deep youth and will remain there for at least 50 years. You won't get out easy. Wait until all the evils you've done to this people are forgotten and then you'll have time to win some future generations, perhaps those who will come to participate in a political game. As for the data you've brought here, it's true, I said industrial production has fallen, but no economic activity has fallen. Economic activity grew by 5% in 2001, 5.5% in 2002, and growth will also be recorded in 2003. It would be good for you to listen to all this information, so that in the future, you don't make any mistakes. What's particularly important is that industrial production has a better quality, and that means that gross income per capita at the moment you went into political history was $1,000 per capita, and that today over 2,000 dollars per capita. It's a testimony to what the government has done in the past three years. What's also true is that you're in your ten-year job, except for the blurry, non-transparent, direct, which no one knew about, the unpublic sales of Telecom, you didn't have any foreign investment. What is true, Serbia in this year alone has a billion and 200m euros in foreign direct investment, making it a leader in the Balkans. Direct foreign investment and at least 15 multinational companies that invested their capital here, trusting the Serbian government, not you, because while you were none of them wanted to come, except for those suspects, like those who entered Galenika without money, like those others who invested in a way that nobody saw. And there's one more thing to tell you. That cement talk, convince me and assure me with that offer, show me where Lafarge was making 150 million dollars for the cement store. Come out with that offer. Gentlemen, not with a piece of paper that's not worth anything and is as valuable to you as any other paper, but with an offer, contract, guarantees, bank guarantees to invest. I know it's an empty story, because I happen to know that the Lafarz for the Beocian cement factory, and you can ask Lafarg, of course, that year, not 1996, but in 1998, he gave 100 million marks for 100 percent of the value of capital. For the Beocinian cement factory, we got $52.00,000 for 70% of the value of capital, which will say that by 70%, which is 30% less capital that has been sold, it's got 120,000,000 marks, the figure that you could only dream of plus through investment, plus the social programme, and it's not a programme for workers who will be expelled, because no worker from Beocinska cement factory has been expelled, but those who were satisfied with the offered severance left the factory voluntarily.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33938	The word has a national MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the right to propose, and the right to the replica of MP Zarko Obradović, and the National MP Stevan Ž. Gudurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33939	I don't want to take up a lot of your time and I'd like to ask you, you and the chairman, at least we the promoters didn't imagine a debate going on in this regard. We thought of it as a crossover of arguments, and the political struggle of certain ministers with former political contemporaries is untasteful for this hall. You know, this same minister Vlahovic sat around Milan Beck all the time, I was an eyewitness, and now he's talking about some privatisation earlier. Let's really try to avoid the Mitting Talks, because you've noticed that I've been strictly careful, that in my exposé I use such a way of addressing both the Prime Minister and all the members of the government. I've tried to explain the many consequences of all the laws that this government has proposed, to be exact in data delivery, to outsmart you in knowledge, and that will give the public an assessment of whether or not I have succeeded, and once again, please, if you need a rally, schedule it and give political speeches. I offer myself as a lady to all ministers who do not have the courage to go out to the main entrance, I will take them out, the citizens have confidence in me and you can go home freely.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33940	The right to replicate Minister Aleksandra Vlahovic's presentation, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33941	We'll be watching each other these days, don't be afraid of questions and answers, but this is the best thing when the current minister talks about what you haven't asked him, and what you asked him to do is push the carpet, but well, that's the thing that's gonna be punished in the election. Mr. Minister, you may not have time to see what is happening in Serbia, but be assured that after these elections DOS will be a shadow government. On Sunday there were elections in Turkey and DOS got fantastic 11%, the SSJ got 16.5% and SPS 18%. The SPS candidate for mayor won 3,300, the SSJ candidate won 2,000, the next Social Democracy candidate, and the DOS candidate not to speak. Two or three weeks ago, Priboj and DOS were not allowed to apply for the DOS elections, a coalition was made of parties and was given 17% and SPS 15.60%. In June of this year, over 18% of the vote was received in the 66-seat additional elections held in 33 SPS municipalities. In 18 municipalities on 4 November 2001, those municipalities in which you introduced a forced administration, and against the law, the SPS received 21%, and in the December 2002 additional elections in five municipalities, another 30 additional SPS council members received 17%. We haven't reached Nis yet, but that's our next step. So Nis is done, too. The way you work, there's no saving you. It's interesting to hear the minister talk about economics, mention examples, and unfortunately from the previous Prime Minister we heard in the exposé that the government will not have more than three or four vice presidents, and now there are eight or how many of them already there are, and not to mention how many advisers there are and those who are not our citizens. Not to mention how many agencies there are, as parallel bodies to the ministry. In each ministry, one agency is formed to make it easier for jobs to be completed and to move easier capital where it belongs. When this power passes we will see the effect, why companies are sold at a lower price than their real values. It is impossible, according to the logic used by the government itself, that a company at the time of sanctions has more value than now that we are free, open, that it has less value. It's impossible to make sense, but with you, it's possible, and we'll see the cause when the Serbian state authorities get into financial control.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33942	The word is given by MP Stevan G. Guduric, an authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33943	Normally, since it became about today a major word, that the company "Deloj and Tus" estimated half of the Serbian economy, and then it is normal for Minister Vlahovic from that company to come for the privatisation minister and finish the job, because even that job was not well done and Minister Vlahovic doesn't know today, as if from some wrong party, he was not informed, or that his firm has tampered with "Lafarja", that the Beocinski cementar did rules more than 1,700,000 tons, and that is an exact figure, which you didn't even find in your assessment, because you claimed from this pay phone that it did not make more than 1,500,000. You have no idea, my friend, what I can do for you, because you don't live there. I happen to live there, so I know, and I also know that in that transparent privatisation, the members of the tender commission just as well as if they were watching on TV, because some in the packaged envelope are shown and may not be opened to see what's in it. I don't know what, but otherwise no envelopes were opened, so it was either a transparency farce or a set-up tender, because if we're talking about strategic cement partners, where we have strategic sugar partners or it's transparent for a sugar company that anyone who has as much sugar as they can put in coffee is a strategic partner, because it's my God, some amount of sugar, and for a cementist in Beocino someone had to make 7,000,000 tons in order to buy it, because in May that year, when someone came from France and said, the socialists sold it, and now we're getting a better price. In Beocino, Minister, he knows who sleeps with his own wife, not who sells cement. One more thing, you said here you didn't inherit anything and then you sold it nothing for a billion and change euros. How can you sell anything for a million and change euros, that's a strange story. Because in that social program, which you mention so much, you could have come to Beocin ten days ago, only hard to leave because you would have been given, because those 800 who voluntarily left from the thousand would've kept you there as a hostage to pay them what they were supposed to get. It was an ugly privatisation in Apatino, that the people of Apatino now want to buy half of Novi Sad for that money, out of their actions, and the one in Beocino can buy a rotten sherp and a pot for that same money. As far as I can tell, that Beochen cementer was at least an ego firm to that Apache brewery. You may not know it, but you misjudged it. A gentleman sitting next to the prime minister could explain why Serbia's mineral treasure still doesn't charge anyone. Because both the laporus and the krečnjak, which are removed from Fruska above, as far as cements are concerned, and those who are from Popovac and Koseric, let them say that the hill is called, still no one pays or steals local self-government, as Minister Djelic stole in Beocino 170 million. It's facts that hurt, but what I can do. When you buy a piece of land to sow onions, then pay taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, and when you buy a factory, you pay nothing. I also spoke to Minister Djelic and Minister Vlahovic, but it was not his, frankly, only Mr Djelic, who was ready here every time to jump like a goat behind a pay phone, for every word, did not come out once to explain that MP Guduric had no idea, because, by law, he, the member of this and that, the attitude of Beocino does not belong. It belongs. From your government, someone else, third, one will pay, normally with interest, because it's all over the world like that. Minister Vlahovic has another problem. Where he used to work, they wrote the previous law. Well, some Economic Institute, Deloj and Tush, and those who also wrote Mirko Marjanovic some previous law, which now turned out to be wrong, and then he claimed it was right. He has to make peace with himself whether what he wrote before is right or wrong. (Milisav Petkovic, from the post: explain where Stambolic is. ) Ask Minister Mihajlovic, don't ask me, I haven't worked in the police before, and I don't work now. Give that question to your minister, not to me. Because in all that, which is so good, it needs to be explained where this world that's lost its job will be employed. If you're putting money from privatisation into the budget to hold your power, I haven't noticed, it even says about it, and there's a memo in Beocin probably everywhere, and I don't know if it's going to say that in Nis, since the Nislims said smartly, it's just not according to the law, that the money is going to invest in the opening of new jobs. I can, for example, bring here tomorrow a memo from Minister Djelic, when the money arrived in Beocin, that these money must be spent in the infrastructure. That's what it says. Infrastructure doesn't create new jobs, as far as I understand, and I understand, unlike some people who don't understand. Then they told us that in this privatisation and everything that follows, we would begin to live in prosperity. In that prosperity, I understood in Beocino that this ecological situation that my colleague Srda Popovic praised in some newspapers, that in the middles where the cements sold began to be so wonderful that the one called the "green apple" would come too, or, like, it was some of the best sign. Also, Mr. Vlahovic's friends, Mr. Bob Vos, chairman of the Management Committee of the Factory, said last year -- after the first renovation in cement, the remont is always in winter, in Beocino there will be a paradise, in ecological terms. As far as I know about heaven and hell, this looks worse than hell, and there's no talking about heaven. Someone should be controlling, Minister, that privatisation. It says there about six months. The one of you from the Agency, who was at the Agency, you have half those (not understood) who haven't been up to it in years, no wonder they've sold out this economy. They made their first dollar when they sold something. He was a representative ten days ago in Beocino and he didn't know he was dying. Did the cat eat his tongue or what it was about, I don't know, explain why it wasn't controlled by that Lafarg and whether Lafarg was carrying out the elements of the contract? The story of how people went there voluntarily, come to the Ministers, together we'll go to those workers, explain to them how they went voluntarily or got a leg on the tour. The story of the money they got, it's the funny money of the minister, and they were expressed in stamps, not in euros, as you from this assembly pay phone used to say, because in those days it was kind of easier to communicate with stamps. They weren't as attractive as you were talking about, because you were supposed to work there and do it, so you'd be happy with so much. Why, then, would those in Apatino be dissatisfied with privatization, so that they would incasulate hundreds and change thousands of euros from spending some years in the company? He can't answer, because even the two laws that were here, he couldn't answer. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] He can talk, not slow the story, but he can't answer, that's the problem, like the problem with all that is We've been listening here today to what's normal. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] It's just, no offense, we understood, when Mr. Djindjic's first government was presented here, that everyone went to some sort of review. At least that's what it's said here. That's when no one denied it from that government. True, it is never said whether all the checks have been passed and whether those who were subsequently involved in the government have gone to it. Then all the talk here is that it's normal, it's hard to say it's normal. That's basic, Mr. Zivkovic. All of what you told us today is normal in Serbia, hardly anyone could say it's normal. No one's saying that you inherited prosperity, you just didn't explain it to us, at least not by some example in practice, what happened to us nicely for the three years of DOS authorities. (President: 10 minutes. There's too much information for that, not in the story, outside, in the field. It was ugly to comment on these people here today. What are they, but some of them told you that, among other things, those who brought you to power, protesting together with you once, which was legitimate and quite fine. You've qualified them today very uglyly and here from the pay phone, not to mention where others haven't been, so they don't have to hear. So it's not normal. I think the time has matured and it was better, you agreed this morning, only Mrs. Micic did not, that this discussion was not being held, because it is difficult to hear anything new in the discussion. You can only hear what we have already told you so many times, to you or to the previous government, which is in the same composition, unfortunately, without Mr Djindjic. It could hardly all be called normal here. It is not normal at all, and that is why the Socialist People's Party will vote that both your cabinet and Mrs. Micic will be part of the past in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33944	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33945	Thank you for giving us a chance today to start talking about what the government's been doing for the last 1,000 days. It'll continue tomorrow. To some, apparently, from everything the gentleman said, I realized, interestingly, something about a woman, where she sleeps, it's known in Beocino. That, unfortunately or fortunately, is better said fortunately, is not the job of the Serbian government and I will not plead on that. Everything else is due to civilization differences. There's really no need to explain to people that the social property you enjoyed, where your standard grew, doesn't exist. It was a virtual reality and will be privatized in the way it was started and you will be happy that you were silent witnesses of what was happening, let alone those of us who worked on it. I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-30-0.u33946	This concludes work for today. The session will be held tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that according to official record, the session is attending, according to the last official note, 73 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work on, and we can continue with the session in the afternoon. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Natasa Micic, Stevan Lilić, Natasa Milojevic, Juhas Atil, Teodora Vlahović, Radic Jokovic, Miroslav Markicevic, Miodrag Jaćimović, Branko Besevic, Milos Radivojčević, Petar Misic, Marijan Risticevic, Živorad Rakovic. National MP Radoje Simic announced a delay in the morning session. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a PUBLICATION OF UNUPPORATION TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (addition) Mr. Zoran Zivković came forward for the word.
