ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29168	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. In order to determine the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, we have established that there is a quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Stanko Kovačević, Petar Misic, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jon Čizaš, Živica Predojev, Branimir Trajkovic, Marko Jakšić, Jelena Milenković-Orlić and Milos Radivojčević; (at noon) Pal Shandor and Teodora Vlahović. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF TELECOMMUNICATION (single) The assembly of the AP Vojvodina was submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment, or the authorised representative of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment is to the title above Article 13 and to Article 13. The title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to delete the title above Article 13 and Article 13 of this law. The Serbian Radical Party believes the telecommunications agency should be expelled from the bill for reasons why the agency would be a supranational body. If the agency were to be set up in this way, we would have a parallel body in the area of telecommunications. The Telecommunications Agency would be an independent body, which would have a monopoly on telecommunications, and we believe that it is a power and that it belongs to the government's jurisdiction. We believe that a working body may exist within the Ministry of Telecommunications. It could be a commission and it could be the assistant working body of the Ministry of Telecommunications. The Agency, which would be an independent body, could not be authorised in the first and second stages, to adopt certain acts without authority, or without the permission of the Ministry or Government. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is a non-local establishment of a telecommunications agency, as it would be a parallel body, but a supranational one, over which there would be no control, and it needs to be established. As an excess working body, we believe it should be deleted from this bill. Sublegal acts brought by the agency would not be able to fit into our rights either, and it is not known in the parallel right that one agency can establish a monopoly parallel to the ministry. That is why we believe that this agency should be absolutely expelled from the proposal. Besides, this agency is going to cost the state a lot. All agencies formed by the government are parallel authorities of the ministries. There's no telling how many members or employees that agency will count. Second, where are the facilities and work rooms for that agency? How many other costs will be caused by the formation of one of these agencies. It's a great cost, we think it's a humble state and that this country, our government, and we don't need agencies that will be parallel organs. I've noticed in Article 13 that the chairman of the board of directors will represent the agency. If he didn't believe it, the proposer dared to norm that the salary of a board member couldn't be less than the Supreme Court judges. Which is a lot, it's a lot. That is why we believe, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the agency provided for in this law should be deleted and left alone to work, within the framework of its powers from the Constitution, just the Ministry of Telecommunications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29170	The word has the mandated representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29171	This amendment requires that Article 13 be deleted. A bill of law due to a conceptal disagreement with our view of how this area should be handled. But since there is probably a majority for the adoption of this bill, I would just point out some failures, bad solutions in your Article 13. Proposal. In position 2, you start with the words "the chairman of the Management Board represents and represents the Agency". That's what you have in Article 8(3). It's in terms of the legal subjectivity of the agency, so there's no need to repeat this here because it doesn't mean anything, and it can only confuse. The title of this article is "The Mode of the Management Board". Our government tells us through this member that it believes that this member has been arranged by the way it works and mentions the compensation for work. The way the Management Board works is, I guess, called the Management Board's session, with the majority of votes being decided, how the draft agenda is set up, and I guess these are some things that define the way an authority works. The government here tells us that it considers the way the board of directors works and that it is the chairman of the board of directors while his term in office is at the agency. It's not the way an organ works. This is the status issue of the chairman of the board of directors, who is said to have the position, rights and powers of directors when it comes to the employment relations of people employed by the agency. It doesn't belong to this member by matter. Furthermore, members of the board of directors are said to have the right to cash compensation on the board of directors and the level of that cash compensation is at the level of the Serbian Supreme Court's salary. The fee, salary and mode of work are two mixed topics and one with the other absolutely cannot go, cannot be placed at all within this article. The Management Board is a collegiate body and has now drawn from the college body the chairman of the Management Board and given him the rights, responsibilities and powers that belong to an individual when represented by an authority. The director is an organ, but he's also an individual, the man who does the job. It's probably that when different translations are mixed up here, and it's all messed up just to remind you that in this concept of the law, there's an organization that performs public authority, and in another article, it's said that what it does is entrusted with business. Anyone who understands this well will probably be able to apply it, and how this will be interpreted by the judicial authorities at the time of the issue of work, modes of work, decision-making and other issues very important to this agency. As you have set out, we are likely to have different court practices, because this bill does not contain until the final sequences of ideas and the spirit of the principles to which the Proposer has called, it seems to me in Articles 3, 4 or 6 of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29172	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to article 14 of this law and it may be boring for someone to resist and insist on a particular concept. For these reasons, wherever competences arise that we believe are not adequate for democratic development, for the reform development of this society, for which you swore, we point out how this would get into the stenogram and to figure out where you're making big mistakes. Namely, this amendment follows the amendment to Article 1 that the proposed republican agency is not in the spirit of democratic society and the personal responsibility for which we stand. This is one concept, I would say, perhaps from the Cardellian era, collective responsibility, and should indeed amnesty of working in this part, which includes jurisdiction, as you say, of these agencies, and that the government is clean when it comes to the failures and executions of, or unexecuted works related to the affairs of the statute provided for in that agency. I would say that it also manages here, that is to say, out of the hands of the Legislative Committee the ability to control the work of this agency, because there is a board of directors between the agency and parliament, which is scheduled to exercise the authority of the telecommunications agency. What the people would say is, you go to that parole -- away from the eyes, away from the heart, and in this way you simply want this to be neither transparent, nor that you can have real insight into what agencies are actually doing, that is, all that agencies are going to do for the government, but it doesn't say in this law that these are government powers, but some paraorganizations within the government. So, it is a government organisation, and therefore we suggest that the title above Article 14 be deleted, because it follows a logical course that the term of office of the president, or a member of the board of directors, should not exist, because it is excessive if the title is deleted - the termination of the term of office of the president and of the board of directors. In fact, we believe that the mandate of the president and the members of the commission should cease in the following cases: the expiry of the time he was elected; the decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to resolve, not by the Agency; then by resigning, as is the law; and with the most recent event, death. For these reasons, the SRS parliamentary group insists that the government's powers be left behind, which is in line with the democratic norms and reforms that you, as you say, have begun.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29174	The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29175	We have expressed our position on the termination of the term of office of president and committee members. Mr Kesejić pointed out some details if our first amendment would be accepted, and then it would be one logical continent, but I also want to point out some of the problems caused by Article 14. Not maybe as directly as the logic of things comes with problems. First and foremost, this law has not resolved the question of who is the founder of the agency. It can be concluded on the basis of some of the provisions of this bill that it is the founder of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but there are also 10 other provisions that indicate that the founding rights of the agency are being exercised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in respect of the report, as regards the financial plan, as to whether the reasons for the resolution occurred, etc. This may be a major problem when implementing Article 14; and another major problem, I do not know how the government has accepted that it binds its own hands, because in the opening members of this law, the proposing has made it clear and said clearly that the agency is obliged, among other things, to ensure the implementation and improvement of the established policy in this area. That's the logic of things, that's how it's supposed to be. However, already in the following members, the promoter said that the agency is an independent, or independent, regulatory body, a control body, a body that adopts general acts, prescribes standards, prescribes everything and everything, independent body from anyone. So if it's independent, then it's independent of the established policy. Which is why I say it - politics is within the scope of the programme, of the political attitude, but what goes into one general act, it's already a legal act. And if this legal act is adopted by an independent and independent agency and there are no political views, development strategy or numbering plan, etc., then it is the wrong job, then Article 14 is practically inapplicable. Therefore, by this group of amendments, we simply want to put additional pressure on the promoter to change the entire chapter II, so that the ministry does not give up those powers, which it must have under the Constitution, that it does not form this agency as a supranational body. It's essentially a superstate body, which won't be under anyone's control. In addition, the legislative body, as well as the executive body, is provided with full capacity of law; the legislative body in the area of regulation, the Government as an executive body in the area of law enforcement. We are now forming an organ to enforce the law, and it has absolutely nothing to do with that body, which is the government, which under the Constitution must be responsible for the law's execution. This is the danger that this concept of law carries and virtually devalues all of what you stated in article 14. This in Article 14 will be inconclusive, not because of the content of Article 14, but because of what precedes Article 14, where the agency is given as something that is untouchable, which no one can even mention, in order not to endanger some alleged independence and independence of it. This is a danger because the government is carrying full political responsibility, and it will have one body that will absolutely have absolutely no influence.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29176	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has been made by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29177	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Chairman, advertised member 169. A Rules of Procedure which states that meetings of the National Assembly and its committees are public. I will read the whole article: "The National Assembly and its committees may be closed to the public, in cases of a certain law, if proposed by the Government, committees or at least 20 MPs. The proposal must be reasoned. The proposal is being voted in the National Assembly without a search." I would remind you that after the introduction of the emergency situation by the president of the National Assembly, we were informed that there would be no more direct transfers of the National Assembly sessions. At that point, the Assembly did not declare it, although we insisted that the Assembly should make such a decision, that it could not be an integral part of the Emergency Implementation Order, so I ask you for an explanation, I think that you owe us, since we heard it on television yesterday, and here in the Hall, from the President of the Assembly, that the state of emergency has been lifted, so we do not know what the suspension of the tour is, since there are still no direct TV transmission sessions of the National Assembly, that still officers in masked uniforms and long tubes are standing in front of the state institutions, that there are still more police checkpoints on the roads than there were until yesterday, so you should give us some explanation, although then you told us, when you banned the direct transfer of the National Assembly, that this public work would not be compromised. As she wasn't threatened, I think we all felt the kind of censorship the public information funds had over these months and the change of days. I don't think that should continue, and now that we've reportedly returned Serbia to its regular state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29178	The meetings of the National Assembly are public and you have not uttered an injury to any of the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Respecting your experience, I'm sure you're aware of it yourself, so there's no reason to explain it. What you're talking about is not the subject of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The object is something we share, which is to consider direct transfers to democratic fluids. There is a provision by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the obligation that MPs do not obtain from the place, so that I give you a warning in terms of that provision, that this does not happen, and on the same basis as yesterday. Another MP, Dragan Ljubojevic, also threw out of place, as did MP Branislav Vakic. I give a warning for breaking the Rules of Procedure, that without my wish, I really have no intention of making warnings about something that is common behavior. And the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic warned, and MP Goran Cvetanovic, a warning about the rejection and disrespect of the Rules of Procedure. As chairman, I know the names and last names of all the Members of the People, and I really ask you to let me finish the argument. Since the President's explanation is that the objection of the MP does not apply to any member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and that it is a matter of direct transfer of technical nature, nothing more and nothing less. Would you like a session of the Administrative Board? Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I sincerely hope that after the adoption of this law, we will overcome these technical problems regarding the possibility of direct transfers of session of the National Assembly. Amendment of the SRS to Article 15 which will explain is the consequence of the reasons and the amendment to Article 14. In fact, with regard to all members involved in the composition and selection of the board of directors, mandates, modes of work, termination of mandate, termination of resolution and conflict of interest, the amendments focus on the fact that, instead of the agency, the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia should stand, in accordance with our intensibility, not to set up an agency that will deal with telecommunications in this scope and with such powers, as provided for by the law; it is not necessary to establish a supranational body, with all public powers that only state authorities, i.e. executive authority, and in particular that it has a regulatory function which, in accordance with our legal system, cannot be transferred to one such organisation. The existence of a professional body, such as a commission, so even if it were called an agency, but not with such powers, which would be subordinated to the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, would be acceptable for us. The explanation that the agency costs nothing to the state is true, except that when the first capital, when it starts working, during the first year, it has to be secured from the budget, but that's why no one said the state would lose all those funds, because those funds would be the Agency's income. We believe that, when the mandate is terminated by a resolution, which regulates Article 15, instead of the Assembly deciding on a proposal from the Management Board or Government, the government of the Republic of Serbia should resolve the president and members of the commission. This Parliament should not be distracted by the election of board members of any professional organisations or even such agencies as one new state body. That's only for two reasons. One of these is if he is legally sentenced to a prison sentence of more than six months, for a crime of abuse of official office, fraud, corruption, theft or other similar crime that makes him unworthy. Secondly, if it is found that during the term of office it has violated the rules on conflict of interest applicable to members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other state officials. I remind you that the conflict of interest is particularly justified in Article 16. According to us, the solution in terms of conflict of interest should be as perceived, means that the same rules apply to the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It was necessary to predict that they should not violate the rules of conflict of interest, and not, as suggested in Article 16, that even the swastika could not be a dactylograph or a passive porter in a telecommunications company. It's demagogy, it's, like, to show that you need to ensure independence. That's funny, and I think our provision is far more precise and normal. In doing so, you have completely failed to predict cases of resolution due to poor work, unprofessional work or labour. Once again, I would like to warn you, since I know that you have used the legislation of the Federal Republic of Germany and Austria in the making of this law, that the first member of the German law says that regulation of telecommunications and frequencies will be the sovereign right of the Federal Republic of Germany. Therefore, Germany was not prepared to transfer its sovereign right to anyone and allow any interference on the part of the party, and we are setting up one such agency whose reports alone will be heard occasionally, that we will eventually open the debate without any consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29180	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 16 and the title above it. What's this about? This member of the law regulates any alleged conflict of interest, which states that the president and members of the board of directors, as well as any of their relatives in the first line regardless of the degree of kinship or a kinsman, endowment with the second degree of kinship, spouse or related to the family, endowed with the first degree of kinship, shall not, directly or through the third natural or legal person, have participation as the owner of a legal entity, be a shareholder, employed or the like. Why did I propose to delete this member? Because there's a double threat here from this member. Why is the law prohibiting board members from being owners, shareholders, shareholders or persons under contract in the field of telecommunications services and exploitation of telecommunications networks? They're forbidden, but here the question is, what about the government members, what about the Prime Minister, what about ministers and all those who participate? This member of the law tells me that the Prime Minister or the competent minister of this portfolio or any other minister has the right to be the owner, to have participation, to be a shareholder, to be an employee or a person under contract in the area of telecommunications or anything that defines this law. Therefore, this member is too high. I hope this parliament will accept the SRS proposal to delete this member, because why limit the rights only to the narrow circle of people. If it is to be separated and there is no involvement of those who exercise executive power, they should all be placed under this member of conflict of interest; because, as it stands at present, all others can be owners or shareholders in telecommunications networks, services or at all means, transmitters, receivers. In addition to giving this agency a very large right, if it has regulatory, control, arbitration function and some independence and independence, as I have said in principle, there is a danger that this agency will grow into a supranational body and a powerful monopoly position in the field of telecommunications and in general telecommunications services, or, on the other hand, be the extended hand of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which allegedly defines this conflict of interest through these members, and in fact has the most interest and its people will be the largest owners, i.e. those who will have the means, and there are very large funds that are made by exploiting and using telecommunications.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29182	The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29183	With the proposal to delete this article, we are not against matter in this article. This matter is necessary. It is likely that Serbia needs a special regulation to prevent this conflict of interest or abuse of the fact that one person is in a state function, and that his close friend, a relative, is in a direct interest relationship with that body. With this amendment, we just wanted to draw attention to the fact that it is high time to provide such a regulation, objective, impartial, and not as wide as Article 16. She's really wide. A man cannot, although he is a great expert, be elected a member of the agency, if his son is a porter in Telekom, he is punished. If, for example, he is practically a teacher at an electronic college, the daughter of a coffee cook may not be a member of the board of directors, and he is a great expert. Of course, I agree that they were good intentions when this provision was laid down in Article 16. This provision is broad. When a norm is so wide, it allows arbitrary interpretations and arbitrary application. We wanted to draw attention to this amendment to the Government to urgently propose one law, which would fully regulate that matter in order to prevent conflict of interest or the compatibility of the interests of state officials, in general, not only agencies, but also other legal entities and entities that address an authority in order to achieve some right or some law-based interest. If this is how this is interpreted, then we really come into a situation that if someone was elected minister, and his wife wasn't working anywhere at the time, she can't get a job for five years or four years while he's a minister. We come into a situation that even a brother can't get a job in a company, and if we apply this logic, then the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic can count on everyone in his family to be unemployed. That logic has been applied here. A norm like this doesn't mean anything. For what? It was five years ago, and 10 years ago and 50 years ago, the abuse of this, at that time, moral norm. What's the abuse? We have a situation today that the minister and advisor have private businesses, and it's based on the name of some third party who doesn't, for God's sakes, has nothing to do with geodesy, with catastrian bases, etc. That's what everybody says at the Ministry and everybody knows it. You ministers can't hold on to it because there's no name and name in the papers. The fact is, because word is, it's known that this firm gets jobs and can do bases, etc. Because it's a licensed job and only someone can work on those conditions. This is just one example that even such a broad norm means nothing in practice. Of course, we are confronted with habits, such as the Minister and Prime Minister if he did not do it for his own end or for his family. It's present with us. That's something we need to get rid of. How do we do that? We obviously can't do it with a system of moral standards, because it's about habits. It's the whole regulation that would regulate all of this, and the regulation would apply to both the agency and the commission, no matter what variant. That is why we have submitted this amendment and we propose to the Government that it is much better to delete this member and to apply some of the moral standards that apply in society and prevent possible abuse of interest groups from having their representatives in the agency. Believe me, a large number of stakeholders are preparing to have a man in that agency. They've been lobbying for a long time, and the result of that lobbying may be a bill like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29184	Does anyone else want a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the SRS to Article 17 and the title above it is a logical trace of all the amendments submitted concerning the status of the telecommunications agency that is being introduced by this law. The SRS represents a completely different approach to resolving some of the basics in this area. We believe that a telecommunications agency should be deleted for the simple reason that large powers are given to the agency, almost all powers in the area of telecommunications, and the authority, the one who chooses and sets up, has virtually no responsibility for the tasks carried out by this agency. Telecommunications is a significant area. Big money's in the game. The frequencies themselves represent the natural wealth of a country. We find it irresponsible to regulate this area in this way. It states here that the agency is an independent legal entity and that it is functionally independent of any auction authority, as well as of all organisations and persons dealing with telecommunications networks, means or services. So, the entire area, the allocation of permits, the license and the rest will work by an organ that's practically not a state body. The chairman of the board of directors and the board of directors shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. So none of the politicians, none of the government's representatives appear here and bear any responsibility for politics in this area. This prepares the ground for people who are going to run this agency to do the job they need to do, possibly to the harm of the Serbian state and to the harm of Serbian citizens, and then to the political responsibility of those who are in power in Serbia do not suffer because of the harmful consequences that this law will cause. The amendments submitted by the SRS to this article relate to the statutes and other general acts of the Agency, i.e. to the internal organisation and the Commission's own way of working. We have foreseen previous amendments given jobs in this area by the commission, and part of the professional service at the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications. Thus, in this respect, the amendment would be deleted by the title, and the 17th would be rephrased in such a way as to put it - the Commission adopts a Rules of Procedure and a General Act laying down criteria and criteria that ensure the objectivity and impartiality of the Commission's work. So, part of the jobs in this area, which you predicted would be done by the Republic Telecommunications Agency, would be carried out by the Ministry of Telecommunications, and part of the expertise would be carried out by a commission within the Ministry itself, because the ministry as a state body is competent to enforce laws, not by some agencies, which you form almost in each ministry and in each area.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29186	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29187	We have put forward our concept with this amendment, what the commission could do and what acts it would bring. Of course, the Rules of Procedure on Labour and the General Act on criteria and criteria for objectivity and impartiality in the work of the Commission. When the amendment is read, it is significantly different from what is regulated by the same member of the proposal for the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I want to point out the problems caused by Article 17. You see, if the National Assembly sets up an agency by law, if it elects the president and members of the board of directors, then, by the logic of the matter, the founding rights of the agency should be exercised by the National Assembly. However, you have transferred everything to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, in the final position of this member, you say that consent to the statutes is given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, there's been a confusion of some concepts and some things, because apparently, the promoter wanted to do something, to be independent and independent, but in some ways to be bound, even politically, and perhaps this provision, and also in other ways to the government. And in that confusion and pauperism, there was no principle, from the first to this member, you have no principle, you have no principle until the end of the season, or to the end. Then the question arises, if the government gives consent to the statute, why does the National Assembly choose, why doesn't the Government choose, it's her executive job anyway. The government enforces laws, the government enforces laws. The constitution says that the government is bound by the law, that word is precisely used to refer to the law in order to show how much the organic line between the government is as an executive body and what the legislative body has decided. The legislator gave all the rules of conduct to the executive body how it should work; and here the government doesn't want it, but the real agency, so now, we'd have a little bit with the agency, let's give consent to the statute of the agency. It's very dangerous. Secondly, in previous provisions, you have given great authority to combat the agency's monopoly. You've given such powers that are legally impossible. Why are they legally impossible? They're impossible for one reason, which is that monopolies and monopolies have to be dealt with by one anti-monopoly law. So, it has to be defined what is a natural monopoly, what is a functional monopoly, it has to define the measures that abuse the monopoly position; and only later, on the basis of this bill, there is a need for certain specificities, then in telecommunications to form a basis for monopolies, to extract these general principles and general rules and adapt to the problems in the area of telecommunications. You went the other way. There is no general anti-monopol legislation, it's being made individually, and it's being made by the control body, the regulation body, or the agency, and it's giving it the opportunity to say -- this is a monopoly, this is not a monopoly, this is a dominant position, this is not a dominant position, this is a predominant position, this is not a predominant position, this is not a predominant position. Here in law, you have no principle based on which the agency could pass a general act and define it. In addition, he did not look at the Law on Regulating Courts, for there is a jurisdiction for all disputes over monopoly, abuse of monopoly, etc. This is how you make unnecessary papaziania so the agency can be something in the airless space, undefined, in the wind of all those who have only the interests of it being. Our interest is not to have the agency as such, our interest is precision, clear principles, clear legal provisions, clear responsibility for the law to be an objective, or general act for all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29188	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29189	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President, there is no friend of Milka to particularly welcome her, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17; however, a parliamentary group that has been damaged for five mandates, but as it is, it works well. In Article 17, we proposed that Article 3 be amended and that it reads: "The Management Board shall take decisions by majority of the votes of the total number of members of the Management Board". I think this amendment is meaningful, that it has its purpose and I don't understand the motivation and the reasons, nor the parent board, nor the proposing, which such an amendment has not accepted. The government and the competent ministry have proposed that the Management Board, by majority vote, adopt the statutes, rules of procedure, the act on the arrangement of organisations and professional services and the selection of deputy board presidents, to this majority of three, since the board of directors is composed of five members, the president and four other members. We think this solution is better, if change of attitude 3 is accepted, where it is said that the board makes all its decisions by a majority vote of the total number of the Management Board, which will be said by at least three members. This solution provides more functionally, to say the possibility of a board of directors, not from the point of view of meeting more easily, but it can happen that we have three members at the board meeting itself and that a decision can be taken with two votes. Since the Management Board, as it is said, counts a little, relatively few members, means five, we believe it is necessary that all decisions be made with at least three votes, and if they are present, let them reach a consensus and let them make their decision by at least three votes. Once again, I do not see any reason why this amendment that makes sense is not accepted, I ask this assembly to pay particular attention to this amendment to Article 17, and in that sense, when it comes to voting day, we vote on this amendment, which does not change the concept, does not change the essence of the law, but requires a more responsible approach by board members to make all decisions of interest in the work of the Agency and to implement this law. So much for me, I wouldn't need to explain longer the need to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29190	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the promoter, is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do any of the authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) Lazar Marjanski submitted to the title and subtitle above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Do you want a word on behalf of the amendment applicant? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29191	This article regulates the agency's financial plan. Of course, we have been following through the amendment that our first amendment, where we believe that part of the work that is being proposed by the agency should be carried out by a special commission that would be organised by the ministry, of course, quite independent of the ministry, and the resources and conditions for work would be provided by the ministry, for the sake of the efficiency and integrity of doing these jobs. Of course, this concept is not accepted by the government, it represents a completely different concept, and this concept reflects on the financial plan in Article 18. A bill of law and I still have to figure out some things that are pretty confusing. It is said -- the financial plan sets out the overall revenues and expenditures of the Agency, including the reserve for unforeseen expenditure, as well as the elements for a comprehensive view of the Agency's employment policy. So it's the Agency's profit policy. Probably no ministry has that kind of authority, that authority belongs to the government, and not only to the ministries, but also to other authorities. Here you can see it's a special problem. Furthermore, the fourth point is that they cannot be higher than real labour costs. What does that mean? Real labour costs? I guess some optimal, necessary, minimal, what are real, who's going to evaluate that, the one who gives consent? Those who give consent will be given it depending on how the Agency worked with permits, licences, changing conditions, changing minimum conditions for the performance of that activity, and who, likely, the manufacturer of the equipment or the one providing certain services, has achieved some right. That's probably what this "real expenses" is about. Furthermore, it is said to be "totally incurred expenditure", probably meant for realized expenditure. And here you can see the problem of who's the founder? Who does the founding rights? Why does the government give consent? The agency is a legal person. The departments aren't legal. The government and the state are a legal person. They gave the agency the same legal status as the state. Think about it. One legal person gives consent to another legal person. That is why the promoter insists on this solution for this agency to be so untouchable, fluid, with a financial plan it can predict anything and everything. You've probably adopted the DOS amendment, and that's the autonomial part, where approximately in that plan you should consider a special duke. I didn't list the previous members where the government adopted it, but everything is special about Vojvodina. In one technological system, in one control body that controls a single technological system, especially to isolate and especially to display funds towards narrow territorial areas, it is devastating for the state. The question is whether or not we have the right to regulate this area at the level of the Republic. If we call on the Constitutional Charter, it is likely to have a legal basis, given that the Constitutional Charter was brought in to decommission the state, but these technological systems have a need for expansion. That's why you have those interconnections, connections. This best depicts the ideal of imperialism, common criteria, a unique criterion to cover a larger area. There is an exceptional need for technological systems. Unfortunately, by adopting the DOS amendment, we will probably have Serbia and Vojvodina in those reports for now, and after this Serbian constitution, probably regions, sub-primes, potcantons, diantons, who knows what solutions are being prepared for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29192	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete the point in Article 18, paragraph 7, and add the words "in at least two daily lists". The government has proposed that the Agency's revenue and expenditure accounts be subject to control by an independent auditor. It also suggested that revenue and expenditure calculations be announced no later than three months after the financial year ended. The fact is, the government didn't suggest where these accounts are being published -- whether it's in a newsletter, an ad board, or something like that. Taking into account the importance of the Agency's work and the amount of the Agency's revenue and expenditure, we propose that the Agency's revenue and expenditure be made compulsory in at least two daily lists. The amendment is clear. All we want is the public in the work. That's what you kept promising. There is no reason not to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29194	Thank you. Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. We're moving on to the next amendment. The National MP Dragan Slavka Pavlovic submitted to the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Is anyone on behalf of the promoter answering for a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Slavka Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29195	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have proposed to amend the erasure of article 19 and the title above that member. My amendment is due to the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. We in the Serbian Radical Party think it is incompatible for the ministry to transfer its powers to some agencies. If the telecommunications business is going to be done by this agency of yours, then what is the role of the Ministry? Who, according to this proposal of yours, will answer to whom - the Ministry of Agency or Agency of the Ministry; and what does this mean by what Mrs. Minister said about the agency being independent of all state authorities; who is this agency to control and whom is it going to arbitration? Article 19. The bill regulates the issue of funding by the Agency, which deserves special attention. If the Proposer does not accept this amendment to delete Article 19, then it would be good for the proposing representative to explain to us where this failed government of yours is going to provide budgets for the first year of work of this agency? You are probably planning to take another unfavourable foreign loan, to put even more burden on the citizens of Serbia, to finance the work of this agency of yours, which will slowly but surely destroy Telekom. I wonder whose interest that is? So, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you accept this amendment of mine and, of course, the amendments of my colleagues and free us from your manner of forming a parallel ministry that you call an agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29196	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29197	Whatever you've come up with, Article 19 is practically unsustainable, because it means that your agency is sending a message to everyone -- we're going to hire so many people, we need so much and so much money, and we're going to provide it from the compensation that we're going to regulate, we're going to prescribe, we're going to take, and if something goes past, it goes into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Such authority believe that there is not even the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as it is also related to at least five-six laws that directly concern funds. There's been a massive transfer of power to one of the agencies. Of course, she'll never have a problem with funding, because there are those interested who are willing to pay, but to pay for the proper work of the agency. What really confuses is what you say is that the amount of compensation that operators pay for the right to build, own and use, and then to provide services, certificates, use and allocation of radio frequencies, technical examinations, is determined by the board of directors - and the only one-time licence fee goes directly to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that is the original income of the Republic of Serbia. Everything else the agency does is the Agency's income as a legal person. If there's a surplus, it goes into the Republic's budget. Of course, the last attitude says that this situation will be bridged. If you start an agency, there won't be any big problems, funds will be provided, it doesn't matter how. However, all revenue, and here we have no idea whether it is public revenue, but all public revenues are in one system and all public revenues are shown in one place. Remember, a year and a half ago, Minister Djelic swore here that no public income and public expenditure would be past the budget. This member is contrary to these rules on the budget system, in direct, open contrast. I don't know how the Republic's Legislative Secretariat went. This had to come back. If by any chance the Government had accepted our concept, then these jobs would have been done by the ministry and the other part of the business commission, and all these funds would have been included in the budget, both on the revenue and on the dispensary side, there would be no possibility of anyone else intervening; and in the event of acceptance of our concept, be sure that the pricer, the tariffr of all these fees would be determined by the ministry or even by the government, and the government is responsible for economic policy. All public revenues and public expenditures are an integral part of economic policy. Why is it being pulled out and given to an agency that, from the point of view of the National Assembly, is not responsible. What are the greater interests, the central issue of today's and yesterday's sessions, which are such great interests to force us, to be bombed by a bill like this, and to say that we have to break the Constitution, we have to break all existing laws and form an agency. Apparently, someone from abroad is looking for it. I told you someone could ask us to build a Serbian NASA, but what's worth it when we don't have a cosmodrome, we don't have a space shuttle. We've got less connections than Munich and what we need this for. At that self-government time, 99% of these jobs worked as a public enterprise, and somehow squeezed by the state to suppress the monopoly. Are we just catching a connection with Europe by terms, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29198	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title and subtitle above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the comment of Serbian radicals on the law and on this Article 20 is that agencies are too high in the law itself, and in all other areas where they function. The agency is only a major imposition on the budget and a problem for the functioning of this law. Our amendment proposes that this member be regulated without an agency, i.e. the commission be in the ministry's presence and as such to account for the ministry. The title and subtitle above Article 20 are deleted and Article 20 is amended and read as follows: "The Commission's work is public. The Commission is obliged to submit monthly reports to the Ministry of Telecommunications, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." This amendment specifies the subject matter of this bill in line with the Serbian Radical Party's definition that expert control and inspection tasks should be carried out by the competent ministry. My comment of this law is that you are just continuing the work that is an integral part of your entry into Europe. The law suffered changes in 1991 and 1997, but as a society we too suffered major changes during that period. I'll just list a few things. In 1999, these same Europeans bombed, destroyed the same thing as the Americans of Iraq today, then set themselves up as concubines to help us with all these laws. I saw what those Europeans did to us on the field of Fruska Gore. They destroyed all the repeaters, everything that had anything to do with the telecommunications. You're saying this law is a step forward and a quick advance in the free and open market, without the possibility of a monopoly. That's today, and tomorrow won't be so, mostly telecommunications is under DOS torture. Never will that agency of yours be separate and independent from the state. There's nothing out of control and it's just a parole, arbitration is just a comment. Already today, on the entire network of fernities in our country, they put their paws on the same ones that beat us with heights. Those other people's laws you've consulted are inadmissible with us. The agency serves to launder money, it also serves all other influences that are related to this law. The law was written by people in dictatorship, not by the justice and will of the people. The concept of the agency is the wrong concept, it's pointless. We Serbian radicals propose that the commission performs its work with the ministry and it is tasked with helping the ministry and, of course, has no monopoly. These agencies of yours reportedly account for the Assembly; so far no agency has accounted for this assembly, so neither will this one in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29200	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29201	Article 20. The bill, which is referred to here, is prescribed by the public of the work of the Republic Telecommunications Agency, in particular the submission of reports prepared by the Agency on its activities, finances, permits, decisions and the like. I propose by amendment that in order to increase the public of work, before the adoption of general acts regulating the telecommunications market, the Agency shall consult all interested entities for each general act. These general acts are, I suppose, the rules and other general things of everyone in telecommunications; I foresee the obligation of public publication of the proposal and the written statement of interest. I propose adding a new position 3. which will say: "Before adopting any general act that regulates the telecommunications market, the Agency is obliged to publicly publish the text of the proposal for a general act and enable all interested parties to make known in writing the contents and explanations of the general act. The Agency shall set a deadline for the statement, with it not being less than 30 days. The Agency will take into account all the comments received and accept them or the reasoned refusal when adopting the General Act. "So here I am increasing the public work of the Agency in this sense that it is now guaranteed to all interested parties not only in the statute, but also in the legal act, since there is a public work for them essential. I think the basic thing about this kind of thing, especially in such sensitive things as the authority of the telecommunications agency, the consultation between interested entities and the state's representative, which is the Agency in this case. I think this measure is positive for the agency itself. I believe that the measure is also positive from the aspect of increasing the reputation and authority of the agency itself, as well as the legitimacy of its decisions. There are always some crisis situations and some controversial situations, where the agency can come into a situation where it makes a very controversial decision, or some controversial decision, or perhaps the right decision, but which it will dispute from various of its interests. I think the more public this decision-making process is, the greater the authority of that agency, which would be of paramount importance in such crisis moments. I disagree with the argument that there are secrets that, if revealed, the world would fail. I think it is much more important that all things be made public and then it will be easier for those who refuse to accept such decisions, if they have already had the opportunity to declare them even during the process of law-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29202	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. There is a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 22. A proposal for a telecommunications law. Article 22 is about keeping a register, i.e. the Government's proposal to form and maintain a register database, which is public documents. The SRS has potentiated, as you have so many times heard today and yesterday, that right instead of the agency standing commission and that the commission forms and maintains a database on the registers it runs and which are public documents, that the agency does not keep registers, but the commission does. First, it manages registers issued to telecommunications operators, second, radio stations, third, issued technical calls, fourth, concluded interconnection contracts. The government has proposed that the agency form and maintain the base, while the SRS parliamentary club suggests that instead of the agency, a commission should form and maintain a database on all decisions made, including any objections to these decisions, as well as other data of importance for the area of telecommunications. First of all, control and inspection should be carried out by the competent ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Commission should also carry out tasks under its jurisdiction within its ministry, which are responsible for telecommunications affairs. The commission itself would certainly be obliged to report in its work to the competent telecommunications ministry. In any case, the government has formed a large number of agencies so far. I'm sure the government itself isn't aware and doesn't know how many agencies it's formed so far. Apparently, he only wants benefits, and the responsibility he should have for all those agencies and that he's responsible for the work of those agencies isn't ready to have. Minister Rusheta was present yesterday in the Assembly, having exhibits for six minutes. For all our objections to this bill, she never came out with her arguments, because there are no arguments, to give an explanation and to explain it in a different way. But well, since everything has its beginning and its end, I'm guessing she wasn't even able to do it, since there was no effect on her work at yesterday's session. I guess for that reason she's not even present today, that maybe she'll show up in the end. In any case, for this very reason, it is necessary to adopt this amendment to the SRS, in order to more precisely define the responsibility of the government and its proposals, which have clearly not had much effect so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29204	The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29205	We have proposed by amendment what a commission could do, which records to run. But apparently this agency will have to keep another record. That would be the record of the opening ceremony of the new telephone stations. Here, the people of Telekom sent me this letter, some director of the External Relations Directorate, Ivan Đurić, on 29 March this year. They took some records from Belgrade, changed them there, and immediately made a celebration as if it were the opening of a new telephone station. And of course, the brother-in-law with the minister probably, at the Bata-pejo restaurant, 49,820 dinars, there's even what was a warm appetizer, but it's important that Drasko must pay out of his budget. He says it's a burden on General Telekom's budget. You see, it used to be different, the villagers get organized, the money is collected, the plant is built, all those technicians, the designers and the controllers who did the technical reception come to the opening ceremony, the peasants kill something, organize a celebration. It doesn't cost Telekom, does it, Milosh, it costs nothing to Telekom. There was music, there was all that, and joy, people from Telekom came as guests, served themselves a little bit and left. It wasn't at Telekom's expense. Now, you see, this is a new democratic standard, 49,000 dinars in a nice restaurant, a cold appetizer, some joy, because of several plates that were brought in to be inserted and said -- well, that's now a new digital power plant. Please, no investment, nothing. This is what I said about the amendments the government has accepted, and it concerns some kind of independence of the organisational work or the presentation of data related to the AP Vojvodina. Then this will probably go to the agency's burden, because it does technical reception of objects, so I guess the component and the technical reception will be this kind of team and then it's no wonder Draška is shaking the chair. His chair, he interpreted one member of a two-year contract, stopped investment, unless what was once made represents that it is now a much higher percentage, but it is the same, it was two years ago. There are no fixed-line investments, no quality investments. According to Vrčin, there is a new telephone station, designed for some future cottages, in Prokuplje, where I'm from, to stay registered, etc. But it used to be, it's nothing new. That was 30 years ago, 50 years ago, and 10 years ago. The development plans are starting. By whose - General Jova, Jovina meadow, introduced the highway. In Vojvodina we introduced a highway, four lanes, and there are not even 100 people living on the site. Of course, the road was necessary, but not with four tapes. Of course, that Vrčino, or I don't know where else they're making it, needs a phone station, but let's make it with 500-600 connections, as much as possible and can be made, not a few thousand. Or what I told you yesterday, Jerkovic Brothers - how will people connect when the minister of the building does not give consent to anyone who has an illegally erected facility? Who's going to keep these records of missing things, who's going to keep these records of these beautiful catering services? Please, just remember, these are new democratic standards, because for everything that's been done for these two and a half years, if not the first line of DOS-mania from this pay phone, and then the second sentence was -- we have support from the West and we have confirmation that it's in line with democratic standards. I don't believe that in Western Europe, for three plates, there's a household account of 50,000 dinars to make someone feel nice there when they were present.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29206	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Bojan Kostreš submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29207	Ladies and gentlemen, ever since the first member of this law, the SRS has been trying to convince you that there is no need for some independent agency for jobs that we don't know who will control, who will be responsible and how money will be spent, that you've already gone too far with those agencies, that you're trying, like the Shuvar, to experiment, like he experimented with the school, and made whole generations of Shuvarovci, who are now sitting here and ruling, because they've taught the school, to do something that can be controlled, which will be within the Ministry. We acknowledge that the Ministry is competent and should decide on the affairs entrusted to it by law. So in this article, we ask that, in the title above Article 23, the "agency" be replaced by the word "committee" and that, in accordance with this, in Article 23 of the Agency's tasks and obligations, be transferred to the Commission in charge of telecommunications affairs. Of course, we are aware that the government has already decided in advance not to accept this, to stick to its concepts of the law. We are also saying this because of the people's MPs and because of the public who, however, very rarely and very little can follow these sessions, since there are still no direct TV broadcasts, although the reasons why these transfers have been abolished have ceased. We've been informed, we haven't seen clearly that the country's state of emergency has been lifted. Someone's saying, "It hasn't been lifted for you." It may not have been lifted for us, but, sir, you from the Democratic Party swear on democracy, and here at the pay phone, you're making a threat to the MP that the state of emergency has not been lifted for him. It's your shame and your gray mustache.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29208	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29209	Since this amendment of ours obviously does not fit the concept that the Government has promoted with this bill, I must say that you have a 23rd member in whose application you will have major problems. First, that member goes deep into something that you subsequently regulate in the provisions of Articles 25 to 28. So, you're getting deep into it. It's not a problem that you're repeating something, it's a problem that you're chasing some concepts. In this confusion of terms, everything the Agency decides, and not a general act, is an individual administrative act, immediately final. It is only possible to lead the administrative dispute before the administrative court. You forgot that something you listed as the Agency's jurisdiction is not a administrative matter. I'd like to draw your attention to article nine. You in several places, within these affairs and jurisdiction, have written that the agency settles the dispute. Dispute resolution is not a administrative matter. Dispute is the court's jurisdiction. Two or three parties with conflicting interests may appear, but the proceedings are conducted in connection with one party's request and the rights of one party, so interested parties whose rights are concerned, so it is possible that two or three parties participate, but when a dispute is resolved, then it is no longer a administrative matter. It is similar to that of Article 10. You say--"prevents monopoly activities if they're not... ". Monopoly is not a administrative matter. If you don't believe me, read Article 24. Court-order law. It stands exactly what the Trade Court is responsible for, and says, "It settles disputes in the first degree about distortion of competition, abuse of monopoly position, dominant position in the market and the conclusion of monopoly agreements". I hope you've now linked it to those previous amendments, where I've been pointing to your problem. We don't have the anti-monopol legislation, and since we don't have a general solution, we can't pull out now and make individual rules, because they don't have a legal basis. If you think that certain provisions of this bill are anti-monopolistic provisions that can replace the lack of general law, I'm telling you that you're wrong, because in procedural terms, in the provisions of the procedure, you can't implement it. You condemn the anti-monopoly behavior, the condemnation of the abuse of monopoly or the unauthorized exploitation of the dominant position appears as a administrative matter. At the same time, at this time, there is the jurisdiction of the court that solves the monopolies. It is a fundamental lack of this bill, which defies all procedural provisions in this bill of yours. They're essentially inapplicable. A slightly more vis-à-vis lawyer, like the five-six that are in this assembly, all your agency's decisions will be annulled, abolished. Take care, when it comes to monopoly, it's not just damages. If someone thinks that monopoly is causing some damage, they're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29210	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29211	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 24. A proposal for a telecommunications law. In Article 24, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the word "agency" is replaced by the words "ministration in charge of telecommunications affairs". The SRS is, in principle, against the creation of the agency, especially when it comes to the telecommunications agency. The telecommunications agency cannot have the authority in the field of communication, the use of radio spectrum, because it is not competent and unprofessional. You have, however, anticipated some professionality of the members of the agency, and this expertise with which you paraded, is best viewed in the area of justice, where you have appointed professional and top lawyers, sworn in them, and now you throw trees and stones at them, and for them you have introduced a state of emergency. That's why I'm very skeptical when you're proposing experts, in this case, the telecommunications agency. You really have no measures at all, and we Serbian radicals will constantly warn you as soon as we feel you are manipulating and opening up space for multiple and corruption. Given that you have not accepted the previous amendments to the SRS, which relate to the Agency's jurisdiction, which the SRS is against in principle, I do not expect you to accept this amendment either, but it will be recorded, and when you change them, we will remind you as well as in the prosecution and the judiciary cases, which are very indicative. The very idea of the agency is wrong because it prevents development in the telecommunications sphere, instead of preventing monopoly, it will exist as an absolute monopoliest. There's a matter of agency control, because there won't be any control. The Ministry will not interfere with its jurisdiction irrevocably. All the senselessness of this bill shows and demonstrates the amendments of the SRS MPs, which you are persistently not accepting and doing great harm to Serbian citizens, who should exercise control over the executive government through the MPs. This is how, unfortunately, the agency will be without any control, because when MPs have no control, the citizens of Serbia will have it even less. It is illusory of bad authority to expect good and quality bill proposals. Bad authority and bad bill of law agree as the best casting mold.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29212	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29213	This member of the bill refers to something the promoter calls - control. In order not to repeat what Mr. Colic has presented before me, about one of our visions, within our concepts and jobs should be done by the ministry or possibly a commission, I would just point out that I do not know how this agency could control what is stated in point 5. It is said that in the exercise of control, the agency is authorised to verify the conduct of public telecommunications operators in relation to the obligations provided for by this law in the area, so the areas are listed and are then said to be privacy and security of information. We're touching the division issues again. Even with a small relationship with Telekom, everyone knows there's this room where you listen. Some times the keys to that room have a man who works in Telekom in charge of helping national security, but very often it happens that the keys have direct national security. Sometimes, interns in Telekom suddenly see some people who aren't employed, but they come in nice with a burek and a yogurt to listen, they can listen in the morning, they can do it in the afternoon, they can do it in the afternoon, and so on. In order for one agency to be able to verify their behaviour, as Telekom can be considered an operator in terms of protection of security and information, and here comes a man with a legitimacy who won't even talk to the people of Telekom, because he's authorized to put pins on exactly certain wires and shoot nicely, listens. Is the person who owns telecommunications equipment, specifically Telekom, authorized to ask BIA members for an order in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Security and Information Agency Act and to seek official paper allowing him to do so? He can look, but he probably won't be at work tomorrow, he'll get fired. I'm not saying this because I personally don't express a party attitude, but I think all state officials should be tapped and there's nothing dangerous about it. I wish they could listen to each other as much as possible and as best they can. It wouldn't happen what happens. The public official deserves to be tapped. But that's my personal attitude. There's no need for you to be burdened with that. Something else bothers me. The development of this equipment has gone so far that on October 5, we had four stations from millions to two million marks, or dollars worth. Of these, three were owned by organised criminal groups, who were listening to all communications in this country that were significant for the implementation of the peto-octobaric coup. You know, you've probably read books, it's been published, one's been to Frusca Gora, one's been to Surcin. Some others, in the meantime, formed. The agency can't have any influence on them, it just doesn't know they exist...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29214	Five minutes. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29215	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, with my amendment on behalf of the SRS, I asked that the word "agency" in article 25 be replaced by the words "ministration in charge of telecommunications affairs". I see that Ms. Secretary is missing, probably waiting for this law to come into force to become just a minister of traffic and probably arranges some paved roads with protected witnesses. Okay, we heard a lot about the agency itself during this debate, both in principle and in particular, and a lot of it is contrary to each other. The minister claims that the agency has its own source of income. So far, it has been the source of the Republic of Serbia's income. Only the adoption of such members and such a law would be contrary to the Budgetary System Act. Furthermore, we heard that, under the bill, the agency has a legal personality, has its own board of directors; the president and members of the board of directors elect and dissipate the Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The question arises: Is this agency really independent or independent, and what is, in some ways, very strange about the bill itself? This amendment is in fact in accordance with the amendment to Article 1. The bill, and in article 25, you have introduced a new kind of state function. The Agency is controlling the telecommunications controllers. In Article 25 itself, I wouldn't keep reading any more, only the conditions are laid down so that someone can become a controller. Modernization of the introduction of agencies so-called The parallel ministries have been repeatedly criticised by the SRS. However, such as the introduction of the controllers themselves, let's say the police could, according to your standards and your practice, be a public security agency and fight crime. Police and inspectors would be public security controllers and the fight against crime; or now the newly established tax police instead of the financial police. So, the tax police institution would be called a control, tax and evasion agency, and the inspectors who would work in that police would be tax collectors. I think we should stop with this practice that, in the name of reform and change, the state is making papazian.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29216	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29217	This really is a real problem how to define who should work in the organization, and he is entrusted with some public powers etc. A similar problem was also at the level of local smaouje. There was a problem with how a utility company has communal inspectors, communal police officers. It was a seven or eight year problem that couldn't be solved, and then some environmental control couldn't solve it either. I could compare this controller of yours to the bus controller. He's not an inspector, but he's authorized to exercise control. There's a penalty he can charge, and it's a lot more than what your controller has. You are in defining the controllers from the fact that it should be some kind of inspector with limited powers, or some official person running the procedure for the agency. All of this would be good, but you have previous provisions that say that when the agency conducts the procedure, it must allow the participant in the procedure to plead, deliver evidence and attach documentation, so it is possible to cover everything in the record that your controller found. Why cover it up? Just because of the time course of some period where some things have changed and in the process conducted in front of the agency, a man comes and makes a statement, clarifys these things, and turns out that the controller has conducted the procedure for nothing; and that, by any chance, he was supplied with the powers of the inspector, he could directly apply some of the inspection supervision measures. Of course, you couldn't do it because you only tied those measures to the board of directors. There's going to be one functional problem, and for what? You're basically admitting that there's no possible inspection supervision, so you found a bad solution with this combination, because five capable people can every record of such a controller with such powers to bring down not facts, but indications. It's something that could be ultimately insinuation and then free of charge. You know, the inspector himself is an official who's authorized to take inspection measures, to order a controlled entity to do something; this one can't do it, and there's a big problem, which is why you're going to have a later problem in implementing this law. However, I must commend the promoter for one thing only, he was a little more serious here than when someone proposed amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Law. Here, a regular controller is wanted for three years of work experience, and we discussed a few days ago that it takes a year of working experience for a deputy district attorney. However, this law is a little bit more serious, because, you know, with a year's work experience, rarely anyone can pass a judicial exam, and the Assembly has been forced to vote, because of the state and need to continue today, to be elected deputy public prosecutors and people of a year's service.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29218	Is anyone else applying for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Dragan Jovanovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29219	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, along with counterpart Dragan Jovanovic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26. A bill of this law. This article provides for all the powers of telecommunications controllers when they exercise control. The supervisor's competencies are classified in six groups. In accordance with Article 3(3), the controller is required to make a record and deliver it to the Management Board for each review and actions carried out in the framework of the control. In fact, there is a shortage in this attitude, because it is not prescribed that the controller is obliged to deliver on the status of the records and the subject over which the control was carried out. In Article 28. The Government's proposal said that if, according to the controller's minutes, it decided to impose appropriate measures, the Management Board and the measures expressed in written form and that the subject under which the controls were carried out, together with that act on the measures imposed, would also submit a report on the control carried out. If the government's proposal doesn't change, we'll have one completely illogical situation. The entity subject to control will only find out where control is carried out when an order is issued from the Management Board and what it is necessary to take to remove the identified failures. The other control rules, which are well known in practice, oblige controllers, whether they are called controllers or inspectors, to hand the records of the found state directly to the entities over which the control was carried out. The subject under whom the control has been carried out shall have the right to be aware of the findings on a timely basis, to place observations on the status record and to remove the failures and prior to the adoption of acts by the competent authority, and shall be ordered to carry out those actions. In fact, the above-mentioned amendment proposes to amend Article 3's position - that the controller should be obliged to deliver the minutes on the control carried out immediately and to the subject under which the control has been carried out and there is no interference with the same report, one copy, to be forwarded to the Management Board. The amendment was otherwise in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure. In any event, the subject subject under whom the control has been carried out should receive a record of his or her found condition, not only if the Management Board orders him and gives him certain measures. Every lawyer, every rookie, will say, please, whoever's been in control, needs to present a copy of the record to that person immediately. I think there really are compelling reasons for this amendment to be accepted, it doesn't change any concept of the law itself in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29220	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29221	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26(3). The view reads: "On each review and actions undertaken in the framework of control, the telecommunications controller is obliged to make up a record containing the findings of the situation and to be delivered to the Management Board." In this attitude, there is a lack of respect for principles, and there would have to be if a law was passed like this. The reasons for its adoption in terms of the removal of chaos, monitoring of development and worldwide achievements are not disputed. However, in order to be effective, it is necessary to meet certain principles, above all, the principle of demonopolisation, to introduce a principle of good control in the area, to respect the principle of avoiding abuse and political pressures, to ensure the reduction of administration and deberocracy in that area, to introduce and meet the principle of responsibility, expertise and competence. Did we achieve these principles by this law, and see through the elements of control that are provided through the board of directors? Of course we didn't. The monopoly position of the board of directors is absolutely guaranteed. There's no control of the board of directors. Abuse and political pressure will certainly be because the board of directors is a estranged center of political power, through which many will be banned or provided with work. The reduction of administration and deberocracy has not been achieved, even now we are even more expensive and there is no such element of cheapness in the law, because the entire administration is being held in the ministry, and a new administration is being introduced in the agency. There is no principle of responsibility, and the agency and the board of directors are not responding to anyone. The expertise and competence can be said to be represented. Therefore, if the law does not contain the basic elements and principles needed, then no member of the law, and in particular the control that now goes directly through the Management Board cannot be acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29222	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29223	Of course, we went to the end with this amendment when it came to our concept of law. However, I appreciate the reality that it probably won't even get to the point of reference, but I need to point out the problems that your member is carrying. They're not just about attitude 3, they're about a full member. In the second position, you say, "The telecommunications controller is required to take the necessary preventive measures... ". What are the necessary preventive measures? If you think there should be some preventive measures, you have to define them somehow and specify that to take these measures, the controller is authorized as an official person. It doesn't exist in the provisions of this law. Furthermore, you admit that in the final position, the maximum extent of what the controller is authorized to do is that, in addition to making up the minutes, it may suggest taking some measures to the authority, which is the Agency's board of directors. If you had the opportunity to read the General Administrative Procedure Act, and in particular the inspection control provisions, you could note that there are several types of records in our law - the inspection report, inspection control, and that is one form, the minutes where the special examination procedure is conducted, the minutes where the shortened procedure is conducted, and exactly the cases are prescribed where it is possible for the official action to take place in the relevant business. Since this controller of yours, as you've given it, you can't put anywhere in the existing provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the question is, what is this record essentially? Is that a record of insight? Probably tends to, but it's not that. Your controllers are authorized to carry out a review, measurements and possibly take a statement. Tell me, please, what is the point of looking at a specificity that does not already exist in the General Administrative Procedure Act? There is no specificity, every official face of any authority of the administration does all this in a well-known legal way, everything is clear and when the action of the record is completed is delivered to the party, as proof that it participated and that it knows what she said, what she called for and that, possibly, in the complaint, she can point out and say, you forged the record. This one is not there, because only after giving the measure by the board of directors has the opportunity to see the minutes made up several months before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29224	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word is Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to article 27 was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party and it refers to the powers of radio-emission controllers. He also follows the basic idea of the Serbian Radical Party brought forward on the occasion of the first member, where we insisted that it be deleted from this law and from the telecommunications affairs of the Republic Telecommunications Agency, that all these transactions be directly incorporated into the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications. In Article 27(2), we propose that the words "administrative committee" be replaced by the words "minister in charge of telecommunications and commission affairs", and in paragraph 3, the words "administrative committee" replace the words "minister in charge of telecommunications affairs". Because here we are in a position for the agency to literally do all the work in the area of telecommunications. So, to further regulate the exercise of activity in the area of telecommunications, to control the exercise of telecommunications, to resolve disputes between telecommunications operators, to regulate the conditions of use of radio frequency spectrum, and what is the basis, that absolutely no one is responding. So she prescribes the rules of the game here, she controls it, and no one controls it, because she's said to be an independent organization, to be followed by no one. However, in the work of appointing the board of directors and giving consent to its statutes, it is seen that the core control of the telecommunications agency has the executive authority and the Government of Serbia, but these members who define its status, where it is said to be independent and independent, are trying to hide the government's involvement in these affairs, so that in some of the following jobs, when some "dirty" business in this area is finished, someone has hidden behind the agency, or to avoid political responsibility for some adverse consequences, which will follow the application of this law and the formation of a republican telecommunications agency, which is the introduction of new operators into the area of mobile telephony; possibly, even in some perspective, it is not excluded, the introduction of another operator into the field of fixed telecommunications, a fixed network, in order to ensure that the great damage that Serbia's state will certainly suffer, and thus Serbia's citizens, simply avoid political responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29226	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 28 and 28 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29227	Yesterday's address of the Minister of Transport and Telecommunications to the National Assembly was simply fascinating to me. Ms. Minister has devoted the entire eight minutes to the MPs and this very important proposal for a telecommunications law. Of course she talked about the agency for seven minutes. In addition, Mrs. Minister said she was otherwise so effective, so I assume that due to this efficiency she received an award from Mr. Slobodan Milosevic, as the most agile and most loyal associate of Milutin Mrkonjic in the country's reconstruction affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29228	Please return to the subject for which you received your word. It's your amendment to Article 28 that has nothing to do with what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29229	It has to do with the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29230	Never mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29231	It has to do with the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29232	Please don't argue, otherwise we'll apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29233	Mrs. Minister, speaking of the agency yesterday, stressed the agency's exclusive importance. Part of the telecommunications within the ministry, called the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, is completely neglected and has no role under this law that the government has submitted to us. The government was to be defined between the existence of the agency and the existence of the ministry. Two parallel organs can't exist and it's nowhere in the world. If the amendment had been followed by the first member, I would think of amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, it would have been clear that they are very meaningful and that they aim to return to the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications the powers laid down in the Ministry Act. If you passed this and this law, you should have submitted a bill amending the Ministry Act and there was only the Ministry of Transport and Agency, not the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications. I know that your manner, that is, is the manner of this government to function through the agencies. I also know, as we all know, that agencies are the best way to abuse government jobs, to launder money, but that's gonna be the topic of conversation some other time. My amendment to Article 28 is the consequence of all the amendments that you have heard the reasons for from my colleagues in the SRS parliamentary group. In the amendment to Article 28, I suggested that the words "administrative committee" and "agency" be replaced by the words "minister in charge of telecommunications affairs". A logical trail of things, since we don't think there should be a telecommunications agency, this amendment brings back the power of the Minister in charge of telecommunications affairs. It is logical and normal that there is a possibility that the Minister of Telecommunications for certain jobs would form a commission, but of course that commission would be within the Ministry and would have no contact with this agency of yours, but in this case, the Ministry would be in charge of the Ministry's affairs, which according to the Ministry's Law, and this law is some kind of back-up specialis that is not in accordance with either the Ministry Act, nor the Constitution, nor the normal practice of the modern world.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29234	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29235	We have amended practically exposed our concept of what we think should be in the jurisdiction of which authority when it comes to telecommunications and something about control, but since I just tried to explain to you where the controller is under your bill, I now have to warn you about what's at point 7 point 1, where it's said that the board of directors is authorized to ban the construction of buildings within the security zone around the radio station. I have to tell you that the agency doesn't have that authority, it can't have and can't even get it by this law. For what? It can't be for the simple reason that a few days ago we adopted the Law on Planning and Construction of Objects and one idea was not implemented until the end, and this is the idea that when it comes to such buildings, the trafo stations, means the energy part, or telephone power stations, the base stations, as it is called in mobile telephony, it wasn't implemented until the end of the idea of approval for construction and building permit as a complex administrative act in which the adoption of two authorities participate: one responsible for clean works of construction and others for technology. Since this building permit is not a complex administrative act, then you can ban the technical part of that investment, but you cannot ban construction in any way, because even in the existing regulations the practice is so. If the Belgrade-Nish optical cable, as it is of republican interest and importance, is asked about it by the republican authority, but the expropriation, the service, the real burdens, all end up by the competent authorities of local self-government units on the master's direction where the optical cable is going. For digging and for what it does, a construction operation goes specifically building permit, and for the technical aspect comes another type of permit, and you can prevent that other type of permit, but you can't, classic construction, because you're not authorized to question construction from the point of view of urbanism, architecture, construction and craft work. We've already talked about Section 2. Item 6. - where the board will order the controller to seal the facility. He can't. Why? The controller, as you have given it in the law, is not supplied with powers belonging to the inspection body, and such an facility cannot be closed by anyone who is not supplied with these powers, and you of your controller could not supply the inspection powers for the simple reason that you have kept the agency above the executive authority and we are practically passing a law that cannot be implemented at all. With full right, anyone can throw out your inspector, not allow him to enter; you can possibly implement a measure decision through the police or seek enforcement under the rules of general administrative procedure, administrative enforcement, but there is no controller. I don't know who wrote you this. That man simply didn't read our legal system in the country. If he'd read the legal system a little bit, he wouldn't have made such a catastrophic mistake. Believe me, let him vote 350 votes, this is inconclusive and that's the problem. That's why we insist on telling you: don't make something that's virtual.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29236	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29237	I don't know how to figure it out, but every time he mentions my name, the president of the National Assembly is very kind. Ladies and gentlemen, from the first member we're trying to suggest that you once remove the custom of transferring all the jobs to the agency for which the department should be responsible. The ministry is also authorised by law and has the obligation to perform certain tasks, not to form some parallel organisations and to entrust them with these tasks, so that it would not be responsible or someone else would be responsible for it. In Article 31. The bill says that for the purposes of performing certain control tasks, and in particular radio-emission control, the Agency can set up control centres etc. We propose that in article 31, "agency" be replaced by the words "ministration in charge of telecommunications affairs". And indeed, we think it's much more appropriate and the ministry has to do these jobs, not some agency, which allegedly acts independently and independently, and we don't know how they're even going to charge, in what way the costs, as determined by the agency's price list, will be charged. The ministry and the budget are coming, not special and independent agencies. I guess, and it'll be so safe until the end, so until all the members of this bill are exhausted, we'll be warning you everywhere and hopefully you'll finally understand, you probably won't change, and time will show that these jobs have to be done by the ministry, not by various agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29238	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29239	Well, we have about 30 members commented, and above all there have been talks about how special it is, regulatory, control body, neither in the executive authority nor in the legislative one. We've reached a member who defines practically the commercial services of that body. You know, if a legal person or body has a controller as a semi-inspector, then it is incompatible that that legal person can perform, in addition to compensation, the following tasks: at the request of telecommunications operators or other persons, it examines radio stations; it examines transmitters and receivers; it performs other tests and measurements. These are not tests and measurements for control, but the following point states: "For the examination and measurement referred to in Article 3(1) and (2), the costs set out in the price list adopted by the Agency shall be paid". Well, please, who can define the agent now, what is she? It should have some sort of measuring control center to achieve its function, but why would it measure something at the request of an operator, or perhaps a requirement behind that to measure something hides this fee, to pay for something else? Well, all these operators, if they're more serious, they have their own measuring devices, they have their own experts. If these are commercial-based jobs, then there are other organisations that are certified to be human and materially qualified to carry out these measurements. Why would these commercial measurements be in that phantom agency? It's that problem that we put the agent, as you suggested, above government, above Parliament, above all. And now, believe what the minister said, it's not a state body. Is that true what she said?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29240	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I would like to inform you that during the afternoon session, in your absence, I have warned the chairman, Mrs Comic, that the state of emergency has ceased, that you have made that decision, that you have notified the public of this, and that all those decisions that concerned our work here in the National Assembly, i.e. the closure of the public, have been suspended, not in full sense, but the failure to provide direct TV transmissions of the session of the Serbian Parliament. Since the reasons for the Madam Chairman were that it was true that TV broadcasts were democratic fluids, however, probably by some other authorities, as I believe since 1997, direct transfers have been introduced. There is even a decision of this congregation in another calling for meetings of the congregation to be transmitted directly. We have never made a different decision, we should respect it and make a statement here and make a different decision, so I would warn you that Mr. Churchenjakov went out afterwards and spoke directly to the public on his television, on state television, and said that there are technical options, so it is not true what Mrs. Komic said and that RTS can transfer sessions of the National Assembly if the National Assembly asks for it. I don't know who can look for it on our behalf. Here, we can put that to a vote, and I suggest that the National Assembly declare it, or that you tell us whether you or someone else, who banned the direct transfer of the National Assembly sessions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29242	You didn't specify what the Rules of Procedure was, you had a proposal. The proposal is not adopted. We will not vote on whether it will be a direct transfer, because the National Assembly does not make a decision about it. The transfer will be, there's no interference, but it's not yours and it's not up to you to decide. If you want, you can hold press conferences, here every day, from 0.00 to 24.00 hours, so if you're interesting, the press will come and transfer you directly, from morning to night. We're continuing our work. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralić. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29243	I proposed, on behalf of the SPS, that the name of the chapter "III Public Telecommunications Networks and Public Telecommunications Services Authorisations" should be changed and read as follows: "Concessions for Public Telecommunications Networks and Authorisation for Public Telecommunications Services". Concession is the right to use natural wealth, and a license is the right to use some industrial property rights. We felt that the solution we offered was more appropriate, and I'm quite certain, if the MPs could now, provided there were enough in the O.R., that they would plead to accept this. Because when the time comes to vote, no one knows what we're talking about here. You, Madam President, have said that no committee has accepted this amendment. Yesterday I asked the President of the Legislative Committee, and I asked him today, and yet he is not present, and I ask you, is the Legislative Committee competent to accept or refuse amendments if it is not the parent board? I have not received an answer and I ask you or someone who is competent to respond - whether the Legislative Committee is in charge, because 80 amendments on this basis have practically won that status, including amendments from the ruling majority. So, can the Legislative Committee, when it is not parent, say that the amendment is legally possible or can it say that it does not accept it? Please let me have that answer, because it is not irrelevant, and fellow Members of the Parliament ask you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29244	This was also advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. There is a member of 143 who clearly determines the jurisdiction of each committee, that he may accept or reject the amendment. Article 141 gives special competence to the Legislative Committee that some amendments may also be rejected. That's the answer to your remark. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29245	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32. This looks at the conceptal difference between the SRS and the ruling parties towards bureaucracy, according to administration, according to the organisation of the state, and according to our desire to deburocratise, to create a cheap state and reduce administration, unlike the government that wants to strengthen administration, increase red tape and create an extremely expensive state. How else do you explain the desire to form the agency, while at the same time it remains a ministry and a complete administrative apparatus. After all, we are the country that has the largest number of ministries, has the largest number of government vice-presidents in the world, so we are not surprised that in this sense we are creating some new agencies and strengthening that administration. On the other hand, 50% of gross social products go for public consumption. I'm just interested in who's gonna charge all these major agencies, especially seeing the desire here for agencies to be in the province, to be in the municipality. It is forgotten that factories are closed and production workers are fired, and agencies are opened and administrative workers are employed. Since our concept and your concept are fundamentally different, I don't think we can change anything by this amendment, and it's just an incentive of the desire and concept that's being transferred from member to member, we can't really change anything, but the law, as it is, reflects the overall relationship of power towards its citizens and our own country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29246	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yes, of course, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29247	This is a member who introduces us into a whole new chapter and there are many reasons why an amendment to this chapter should be accepted. We'll all probably agree that the executive authority is bound by law. It is likely that we will agree on this if communications affairs are in the ministry's jurisdiction, so that the ministry and the government have to apply the Law on concessions, whether existing or future. There is probably nothing more natural than exploiting ore and building a road, that telecommunications networks are also a classic example of something that can be the subject of concession. Unfortunately, in this proposal for a law on construction, as it stands, possession and use of the telecommunications network is not a concession, but a single licence. That's where the big problems really come in. If there's talk of a license, then it's inevitable to talk about a contract, because only a contract can transfer a license. We're entering the material of industrial property. And even these two exclusives have a contract that's concluded with the government, which has recognised that exclusive right. It's probably the word "licence" used by mistake there, too. When it comes to the network, there is probably no better example than to point out that it is a matter of concession. It has to go according to some other rules and some other principles. As regards the provision of telecommunications services for the use of already existing equipment, i.e. the network of another owner or owner, there is room for the application of the authorisation principle, as well as for radio stations, to apply the principle of approval, as there is room for certifications and for technical permits. But when it comes to the network, it's inevitable to be a concession. Since this law does not touch the concession, I am simply warning all MPs to think about one thing - we had to before this law even if we had some indication of our strategy or our telecommunication development programme. If not so much for these cell phones, if there's a possibility for the third and fourth in our space, then probably because of the development of fixed telephony, where the network is probably the most significant. Remember one thing - and the existing fixed telephony infrastructure has its limited duration. There's an amortization century, there's regulations, there's a state of action to hold on to something until a certain day, and after a certain day it can't work. Make sure we don't open space to something new, unverified, with this insignificant violation and endangering what we have. To destroy, break down and otherwise influence what we already have, I have to tell you that we are not authorized, because that network is still a national treasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29248	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29249	Article 33. The proposal for a telecommunications law defines the types of licences issued for public telecommunications networks and public telecommunications services. The position of the 4th member, in which I submitted the amendment, provides for a way to issue individual licences, when the exploitation of a public telecommunications network or the provision of public telecommunications services is based on the use of limited resources. As an example for limited resources in brackets, radio frequencies or numberings are listed. My amendment suggests that this entire bracket be deleted. First of all, why is he even blocking in some law where there's something going on? The following sentence already says that the Agency determines the types of public telecommunications services for which a licence can be issued. I think it is unnecessary to specify examples of limited resources; it is sufficient to prescribe that the Agency determines the types of public telecommunications services for which a licence can be issued. Secondly, I think it is particularly unnecessary to cite the numbering as an example of a limited resource. Telecommunications resources are limited by natural conditions, by natural constraints. For example, radio frequency; it must be limited because there are not enough frequency ranges, i.e. Within these ranges, there are not enough individual frequencies to be used freely. For example, a 900 megahertz mobile phone; a certain number of users can join a base station because that resource is naturally limited. As far as the numbering is concerned, this resource is not limited by natural conditions, but by international contracts. These international contracts limit external numbering, calling numbers, or states, while the internal numbering, in my opinion, should not be limited resources. If this isn't accepted, it's enough for me to know the numbering plan in advance because of potential abuse, since the issue of an individual licence is not general, but individual approval. So you're giving one purpose to one legal person that license. In that case, the numbering plan must be known in advance. There is no reason not to accept this amendment. That's why he doesn't change the meaning of this article. I'm erasing a barrier where something like an example is listed, and then it's said that the Agency determines what's listed in the bracket. I don't think there's any reason not to accept it. If he doesn't accept it, then we can say that the government has decided in advance that they will accept something, and something at any cost won't. So this whole debate doesn't make much sense either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29250	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29251	Dear Mrs Komic, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33(4), stating that the individual licence issued by the Agency to a domestic or foreign, natural or legal person intending to build, own or exploit a public telecommunications network and providing public telecommunications services in the event of the exploitation of that network, i.e. the provision of telecommunications services, is based on the use of resources that are limited. The essence of our amendment is to oppose qualifications that numbering is a limited resource and that is what I want to support the next example. The North American continent, the United States and Canada, where the unique numbering is for a fixed and mobile phone network, with over 400 million users and subscribers working. Another example, in the global Internet network, numbering is unique for the entire globe. How this numbering can be a limiting factor in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro which can have the most, provided that it is all residents, 10 million users. So that's the only reason we took it. We hope you can accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29252	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has, in yesterday's and today's debate, provided a lot of arguments and the fact that the telecommunications agency provided for in the bill is harmful to exist. It's for a number of reasons. The amendment that I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group on Article 33(1) also joins on several occasions the reasoned argument that it is harmful for the telecommunications agency to be provided that it exists in the legal system at all, and is provided for by this law. So, instead of the agency, I suggest that a commission formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia be envisaged. According to the draft law, as an independent and independent body, the Agency should act as a legal person and as an independent legal entity to exercise certain powers under the legal order provided for in this proposal. They are so wide that we can say that in addition to the formal provisions provided for by this law, they are responsible for their work to the government and the Serbian Parliament in the form of a one-year report, these powers are by definition of the laws of technical nature. However, according to us in the SRS, the powers that cannot be linked to the provisions of this bill will go to the point where simply the Management Board of the Agency, the President and members of the Management Board, will be able to decide politically and to be censors of who will be the operator of the telecommunications network and to provide public and other telecommunications services. We have public revenues and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. At that level, if we do not exclude the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the unit of local self-government below the level of the Republic, the only agency, which is provided for by this law, has the right to collect public income at its own level. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is charged according to the rates of tax provided for in the law. The Agency will determine the amount of compensation for the various types of jobs it will have. We foresee this amendment that the Commission, rather than the Agency, has the right to issue licences or concessions, however, approvals, permits for a radio station, certificates, or technical permits. The powers laid down in the draft law provide for the possibility of the Agency having a control function and arbitration. It seems to me that in this proposal for a law of authority goes so wide that it still misses that you have provided that the agency has both judicial powers and that it can judge minor crimes, and for which the sentence of prison is scheduled for up to three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29254	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 36 and suggested that the sixth word "Minister" be replaced by the words "Government of the Republic of Serbia", because we believe that this authority should be in the hands of the government, not the Ministry. The SRS has proposed in this amendment to delete position 9 in this article for the reason that the SRS sees a significant difference between the licence and the concession. The SRS is for concessions, not for licenses. Licenses are given to contracts and licences can be misused and played. However, concessions do not have such a category and do not have such a mark. For this reason, the SRS is to grant concessions, which means concessions should be given to someone to pay the state, to use and fertilise, to benefit the state, while at the same time benefiting the one who took the concession for a certain time. Of course, it does well to return it to a certain period of time after using the concession. That is why we believe that there is an important difference and that attitude 9 should be deleted and the Government of the Republic of Serbia put the ministry in position 6 instead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29256	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative, the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29257	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem with this article in 36 is that you say in Section 3 that the licence is practically issued to the person who participated in the public competition procedure, and if that person meets all the conditions provided for by this law and by the acts of the Agency. In this law, you have not put any conditions. You've left everything to the agency so she can write it herself. Probably the only condition will be money and nothing else, because there's a possibility that even before the construction starts, that is, when a man intends to go into business, he reports his intention on a public ad, and if he deals with the money, in terms of attitude 6, then he can finish the job. That's what it says. I read what the minister said last time. Some people didn't read it. We are asking this amendment to change attitude 6 so that the Ministry does not determine the initial price, but rather the Government. That's one thing. Second thing, we're asking for attitude nine to be cast out, and for what? What you call something wrong doesn't give you the right to have a provision of attitude 9. No permit can be the subject of collateral. We're talking about permits here; permission is granted to some legal person to use something and how you've already listed what everything should contain in one of the following members. That's the right that belongs to that person that's listed in that paper, and you're wrongly calling it a license. Permission granted by the right to use it and thus, you have 18 points, which contains everything you call a wrong license. That permit cannot be the subject of a pledge. Please, it would be the same if the gun license were the object of the pledge. The driver's license - the object of the stock; traffic could be somewhat, because it has some property rights, it contains it, but it's also a question. How is it possible, the right to use something that is under special regime, to be held hostage? Look, if I interpret it the way you wrote it well in attitude 9, BK that has money, can make 30 of them who are going to report to the competition, one of them is going to win, and since there's no money to pay to win, they're just going to say, we're going to provide you with the money, and in stock you're going to give that license; we're going to ask for 15 days to return what you gave as a means of security -- a license, so it's going to go right over to that firm that didn't take part in the public competition. She wasn't there, she wasn't there. Please, it can't be in telecommunications as a choice of director of high school, so a man who hasn't competed can't be chosen, because, as you said, it's about partially limited resources, some limitations, some right, it can't be the subject of open manipulation that stands in the position of the 9th member. So it's theoretically possible that whoever has the money, sends the other one; if you've painted this against these public privatisation competitions, then you're absolutely right. All our privatisations are essentially done this way. In Cannet's name, Perino Djok, Mikino Laza, etc., and we'll find out the ultimate owner for two or three years when this clears up, it's a little quiet, and then he can show up, the real owner. Why are you putting this systemically through this provision into the area of telecommunications? Don't bring it in, no matter whose jurisdiction it is; permission can't be the subject of collateral, please, because it doesn't contain property rights. It gives the right to use, under certain conditions, and to whom? The person mentioned in the permit. You continue to make that mistake and later on in the next members
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29258	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Milos Todorovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants for the amendment, MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29259	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, the Assembly Club of the Soviet Union has suggested that Article 36 of the 11th position "20 years" replace the words "10 years". Therefore, the period on which the licence is issued under the proposed law states that it cannot be longer than 20 years. We think that this period is very large and this amendment has suggested that it be reduced to 10 years for a number of reasons. One is that with a telecommunications license, which is very profitable, we generally give someone the right to benefit from it for almost 20 years, regardless of the quality and the conditions, so how technological progress and technical - technological means can occur, the user may not do it in quality or to do it with some shortcomings. But it's about as much as in the concession law, you can give someone a license, the next 20 years, regardless of their quality, can do that job, will simply be protected by the law. Another very important thing, which I would like to point out, counterpart Krasic mentioned earlier, that people who get the licence will be able to compete with the appropriate bank for appropriate loans, etc. in the form of a hostage right. It gives room for manipulation, it's not good in any case, as it was in this concession law that didn't go through and we hope you'll adopt this amendment, because 20 years is too much to grant a license. It has to be reduced, so make it 10 years, as we suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29260	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Dragan Jovanovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been issued by MP Nebojsa Jovic, on behalf of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29261	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, with my colleague Dragan Jovanovic, I have tabled an amendment to Article 37. Proposal for a telecommunications law which regulates specific rules for the issue of licences. Here we propose that the following changes be made and complemented: the word "four" is replaced by "two" in point 3 at the end of the term "one broadly available domestic media" is deleted and the words "two daily lists" are entered instead. In paragraph 5, point 1 of this Article, the Government provided that the Agency is obliged to make a decision on the selection of the most favourable bid within a period of four months from the date of expiry of the application of the public tender procedure for obtaining the licence. The following fact that the Agency already has certain data in the opening of a public tender, as if the deadline for participation is 45 days, is proposed to make the Agency mandatory to make the choice decision the most favourable bid within two months of the date of the end of the application deadline. In the opinion of the 3rd member, the government has proposed that a public tendering notice be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", in at least one widely available international publication and in at least one widely available domestic public information medium. For this purpose, is it not the best solution to remain an open question that is a broadly available domestic means of public information? For example, the purpose of radio advertising would certainly not be achieved, although it is a widely available means of public information. In view of the above, the amendment proposes that public competition notices for obtaining a licence be published in at least two daily lists. For the above-mentioned practical reasons, I expect a positive opinion from the government's representatives, and from the National Assembly to express itself positively on this amendment in the next vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29262	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 38, to which the amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29263	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, change of authorisations for public telecommunications networks and public telecommunications services is the content of Article 40. Under the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, Article 40 should be amended and it should read: "The terms of the licence can only be changed by agreement between the licensee and the Commission, and contrary to the will of the licensee, by the Commission only in the following cases". So, instead of the Agency, it's supposed to be the Commission. Furthermore, point 1) - "if this requires a public interest such as the needs of the country, the needs of state and public security"; point 2) - "in order to comply with the regulations, guidelines, directives or decisions of international organisations", but the bill states "whose member is the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which is, on the basis of the decision of the competent authority, applicable in the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia". Thanks to DOS, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia no longer exists. When I say DOS, I mean the original DOS. In my opinion, there is now some imaginary community of Serbia-Montenegro, it is what it is, but if you have already contributed to the existence of a Serb-Montenegro community, it should stand in your bill of law and in article 40 instead of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which you have destroyed, it should stand for "Serbia and Montenegro". The approval may be amended by a decision of the Commission and not by the Agency, as set out in your proposal, on the basis of the reasons set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, by amending the authorisation for the reasons set out in point (2) of this Article, the Commission is obliged to request the opinion of all relevant authorisation holders on the proposed amendments. The Commission’s decisions relating to the amendment of the licence shall be made publicly, with the possibility of the holder of the authorisation to declare the reason and scope, i.e. the changes contained. When making a decision, the Commission is obliged to restrict the right of the holder of the authorisation to the minimum extent necessary to achieve the objective, i.e. the achievement of the grounds for the restriction, i.e. changes. The amendments must apply equally to all licences, i.e. all licence holders to which the same reason applies, unless there are specific reasons for the different treatment (e.g. for public telecommunications operators having exclusive rights or significant market share.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29264	The word has the mandated representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29265	In order to understand the weight of Article 40, I would advise you to read Article 1 in Article 38. The Agency shall grant approval to any person intending to exploit a telecommunications network or to provide a public telecommunications service to which this regime is applied, if that person fulfils it, or if he accepts that it fulfils the conditions laid down for that network or service. So each person is given that approval. Article 40 regulates how this changes. In the case of a licence, it is an agreement, and it is past the agreement by decision. It's a decision for approval. A procedure is prescribed for the party to be announced and, as the lower limit, that under minimum measures, which move something in the right of that person, should not go further, etc. When all of this is looked at, it is concluded that the applicant had in mind an act that is not only a permit but also an agreement, or a contract. If you're already talking about reducing the scope of law, I accept your terminology, in a 20-year license, it's inevitable there's a contract. You don't have a contract. You call an ordinary license a license because the state doesn't own industrial property rights. The use of resources is not an area of industrial property. There's a problem that runs through and procedures and this article 40. You state good reasons, there will be a change, a threat to public morality, there is a public interest, and someone who has provided services for certain ads, cubes, applications, etc. based on approval. Some changed circumstances have marred public morality because they don't want pornographic images anymore, some commercials, and that's what needs to be thrown out. But it gets in trouble because something called acquired rights is being handled. That is why it is necessary that you, if you are authorized, withdraw, redecorate in accordance with these remarks, because you believe that it will be less damage if this law is late for a month or two days, and essentially settles itself, no matter what concept, than this is unprepared to see the light of day. Because it's possible that any kind of malfeasance is possible and that we're all excluded from the possibility of influencing in any way, or even by public criticism, that this changes and that it goes back to normal. You see, it's not enough to rewrite, the state has changed, the name has changed, and you still have the old names. Don't take that speed. The laws aren't passed in a hurry. The procedure has been complicated until all interests are brought into line, while a proper interpretation of the Constitution is found, while the existing laws are compared, while a look at what is intended to change to bring it into line and be in one system. So, if you're offering something that's running out of the system, it's sticking its eyes out, and in collision with reality, this is going to be very painful.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29266	Is there anyone else calling for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm setting a break in the afternoon. We continue the afternoon session at 15.00 hours, by discussing the amendment to Article 43, which was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. Thank you. [[After break - 15,35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the working quorum. I find that we have a quorum to work with and continue the debate on the amendment to Article 43 submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. Does anyone else want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29268	We want to improve Article 43 with this amendment, but obviously we can hardly improve it, because the proposal about this formulation shows that he does not essentially know this matter, does not know the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the tariff of services, because something like this could only be written by a man who simply has no points of contact with telecommunications, and in particular there are no points of contact with what we call fixed and mobile telephony. I would ask the MPs to pay a little attention, it will be very important when voting on the amendment. You should know that there are several regimes that regulate service prices in this area. Why do these regimes exist? Because apparently fixed telephony, if one is the sole provider of these services, the monopolies and those prices have always been in some control mode, whether previous consent, whether previous notification, some time on a federal level, some time at a republican level, but they were always under some control. When it comes to mobile telephony impulse prices, because of the exclusiveity they were not in tariff regimes, consent, they were freely formed and then it happened that the possibility of obtaining benefits and obtaining from fixed to mobile telephony was moved. We used to deal successfully with agreements, conversations, how to keep the price of impulses at some level that is acceptable and tolerable for phone subscribers, but we also leveled the prices on arrival and departure so that there wouldn't be any capital migration, so we had to cut our prices in one period when the conversation from here moves abroad, so that it wouldn't happen if the one abroad said - I'd pay the cost and since it's lower, then we'd really lose our monopolies here. So price and tariff is a very important area. This area is not regulated by this agency, and that's the first thing you have to say. It cannot regulate, because by definition, as stated in this bill, the agency is not obliged to protect the interests of the operator, it is not obliged to protect those interests. Who's the one who needs to protect the interests? They're probably shareholders. Probably when it comes to "Telecom" and the majority ownership of the Republic of Serbia that one who exercises founding rights on behalf of the Republic, which is the Public Enterprise of PTT Traffic, i.e. holding, should protect those interests, because we do not have the opportunity here to develop five-six business operators to develop fixed telephony. It's a serious job. We have this amendment only supported our basic position where these jobs should be, but I believe there is a obligation to tell you that the agency will not be able to protect clearly present national interests when it comes to fixed telecommunications and a single provider of these services. I point to one more thing. If this law confers public powers on the Agency, then all those who vote on this law should know that both Telecom and the public company of PTT traffic also possess public authority, that we do not happen to have a conflict of public authority, and that this is very negatively reflected in the tariffs and ability of the agency to stifle our sole owner of the fixed telephony network. Be careful, because from reckless decisions and thoughtless members who give authority to the phantom organ, the damage can be great.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29269	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Nesovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29270	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am first interested in whether what I am saying will be heard by the MPs, since there is no minister here, and this is a very important matter. I have submitted an amendment to Article 49(1). This member regulates universal services, i.e. basic services that are a public telecommunications operator, which is a monopolies or has a larger market share in the Republic of Serbia, which is obliged to provide and these services are not commercial. These are information services, special services, access to subscribers, telephone booth services, etc. So that service must be given to all users, or phone subscribers. In Article 49, point 1) states that a telecommunications operator is obliged to provide access to public fixed telephone services as an initial volume of universal service, including a voice-based data transfer service providing quality access to the Internet. Because of this - quality Internet access, and I'm talking. To provide every subscriber with quality Internet access, devices such as 8 megabit ADSL must be installed that cost, last night I checked, about 5,000 euros. Another slightly lower quality is HDSL which provides two megabits and costs about 3,000 euros, and if we want an even lower quality it is an ISDN connection, twice 64 kilobits. The phone money that all subscribers have provides 9.6 kilobits. All subscribers in Sjenica, Stavlje, Tutin, Dezeva, Belgrade, in the Kingdom have the right to ask for this service. This service can't be provided by an individual communications operator, and this is not how no country in Europe predicted. I read the Law on Telecommunications of Croatia, Austria and Germany and nobody predicted this. I suggest that instead of point 1), where it is said of quality Internet access, it says, "access to public voice services through fixed network connections, through which a telephone and model can be used, including the transmission of data at the speeds of transmission by means of public voice services lines". I think this is a technical question. I'm sorry the minister isn't here, and I think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29271	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29272	Article 52 refers to the lease of lines by a public fixed telecommunications network operator, which has a significant market share in the area of leased lines. The obligation of such an operator shall be laid down to conclude, at the request of another public telecommunications operator, a contract on the lease of lines on equal terms based on the cost principle. It's all right. I just think that in addition to what is already prescribed, it takes these conditions to provide and use lines, as well as their technical characteristics and tariffs, to make it publicly available to everyone, I repeat, for all potential leasers of lines. If you look at article 53. (next), you will see in paragraph 2 of this article that the obligation to publicise the offer of rental lines already applies to public telecommunications operators without a significant share of the market. So in Article 53, this already applies to those who do not have a significant share in the market, so I believe that the same obligation should be applied to operators with a significant share in the market. I therefore propose to add a new position which would read: "The terms of the lease of lines referred to in Article 2, which include technical characteristics and tariffs, must be made publicly available to all potential tenants". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29273	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The People's Messenger, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29274	In Article 55. The draft law prohibits the endangerment and violation of privacy and confidentiality of messages transmitted to telecommunications networks; therefore, it is prohibited, unless these activities are carried out under a court order issued in accordance with the law. This position 6, which I propose to amend, refers to the fact that the authorised electronic surveillance is directly carried out by the competent authority for the direct exercise of authorised electronic surveillance, and, above all, to the Security and Information Agency, which would carry out electronic surveillance when there is a court order. Paragraph 2 states that a public telecommunications operator is obliged as part of its system, on its own cost, to form subsystems, devices, equipment and installations for the law provided for by electronic surveillance, and in point 6. that the costs of telecommunications traffic incurred by the work of the devices I mentioned are borne by a telecommunications operator. So, I'm not suggesting an amendment to the installation, it remains that a telecommunications operator does not carry on its own cost, but that in attitude 6, traffic costs incurred by these devices are not borne by a telecommunications operator, but by a state body responsible for the direct implementation of authorised electronic surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29275	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29276	I think this is very important. Article 56 provides for the obligation to keep records and is said in the first position that a public telecommunications operator is obliged to keep in electronic form and books records of data relating to the level of service quality, users, tariffs, income and expenditure, etc. in the form and manner compatible with the programmes - software and systems used by the Agency. My opinion is that this is about compatibility at the data level. Therefore, I believe that this is written in such a way that it is subject to abuses and that the Agency should not dictate the obligation to use compatible programmes and systems by operators, since Article 2 already provides that the Agency may, by a special general act, prescribe a standardised data format for keeping those records. I think it's easy to imagine a situation where the Agency only uses the hardware of known manufacturers and exclusively commercial software unpublished source code. It's a little bit professional now, but what I'm saying is that commercial software data is usually recorded in the format provided for by that same software, so the proposed "compatibility" would be forced by all operators to use new software, and possibly hardware, which is used by the Agency. I believe that this is completely unnecessary, since the Agency may prescribe a format for keeping records with its rules or other general act. I think that compatibility here is only required at the data record level, not at the level of the software-hardware platform, so I am proposing, therefore, this solution - to delete the words "in form and in a way compatible with the software and systems used by the Agency".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29277	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment refers to the title above Articles 57 and 57. The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The next amendment refers to the title above Articles 58 and 58, and was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 58. The proposal for a telecommunications law, in which I am looking for the following - in the title above Article 58, the "Agency" is replaced by the word "Commission"; in Article 58, the "Agency" is replaced by the word "Commission" and deletes point 3; a new position 2 is added: "Technical review of radio stations and all professional tasks for the needs of the Commission are carried out by authorised official persons of the Ministry of Telecommunications Affairs". It is illogical for the radio communications agency to carry out, among other things, a technical examination of radio stations. It's rational for the work to be done by authorized persons, expert in the work. The SRS believes that the concept of the agency is a very poor solution in the telecommunications sphere, especially by giving the agency too much authority, with the inability to control the agency's work. The SRS believes that the most comprehensive would be if the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications had a commission that would edit this sphere and be subject to control by the National Assembly. With such a wrong approach, the agency becomes unique, untouchable. Instead of creating a free market and preventing a monopoly, the agency is becoming the largest monopoly. The minister says the agency has a control function, says measures, partially assumes the role of arbiter, but what is the greatest absurd, it itself remains uncontrollable. Just because international institutions have approved this bill doesn't mean it's quality, and it's imperative for you. This bill should be written by people who know the real situation in the field of telecommunications and the law should not be indeterminate and in practice inapplicable. As for accepting this and all amendments to the SRS MPs, I am not optimistic, because it is important for you to vote against some automation, although the amendments to the SRS would improve the telecommunications law. You're built out of contradiction, but "the coat of arms - the time does not correct", and this law is so much hump to you that we can't fix it with amendments either.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29279	The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29280	Regardless of what Mr. Colic said, if I didn't do it again now, I would just warn the promoter that the same mistake has been stolen here again. It's obviously not a mistake, it's a system failure. This member of yours has a name - special competences of the agency. So, special jurisdiction of the legal person. That's impossible. Powers can be attached to the organ. That you've written here the special competences of the Agency's board of directors, and we understand something, but when you said the jurisdiction of the legal person, you'd better write down the special activity of the agency, the part-time affairs of the agency or otherwise. The only wrong word that's possible is that's exactly what you used the wrong word for it. It is simply incomprehensible that such mistakes can be made and that all possible controls and legislation and the Legislative Committee pass. I don't know if anyone's got your attention about something they can't. This, about, looks like someone just called the president's election and said, "accepts the candidacy of whoever jumps three feet into the air." Something impossible. Something impossible has flooded this bill of ours. How is someone going to apply something that's impossible? It's going to be applied to the system of "o-arms, burzars, throw your hand at half-six" and that's how this law will be implemented, just because someone has concluded that it needs to be passed to the agency, that it needs to be passed urgently, probably more on the principles of some clinical psychology with defensive tasks than it has to do with the profession and the legal system of this state. That what you've regulated is wrong, you yourself admit in article 61. Read article 61 and see who will report to the International Alliance that someone has won to use a certain frequency. No one understands anything. Now the agency isn't on its own, it's going through some ministry. Tell me if she's independent, isn't she independent, how independent she is, where she's independent, why isn't she independent? It's a total mess, Papaziania. Who's gonna figure it out here? I can only claim that this was written by people who don't work in Telekom, who don't have telecommunications touch points, probably some bad translators, using some words that don't exist in our legal system. The professional who's supposed to apply this regulation, he'll be confused. It won't help him either, just because the muscles are being forced by something that carries uncertainty, and everything that carries suspense gives room for political volunteerism, for dosmanic pressures, for influence. If you got the international community's consent, as you're boasting about this, then we're looking at the international community, that Germany, that France, that Austria this way. Then people who understand a little about this job in Telekom say -- is it possible, this way in Germany could never be done with telecommunications? They have to the limit of a well-developed communication activity. So, the problem is that nothing can be painted physically, by force, but must be known to the existing state, to say what we want, which are directions, which are paths, which are legal solutions, which are legal possibilities, what the Constitution allows. Like this, a papaziania where the best people who count on more than 041 will be able to provide the greatest interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29281	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric to article 71. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 77th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Milos Todorovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicant, the word has been given by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29282	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly Club of the SSJ has submitted an amendment to Article 77 point 6 which reads as follows: "The radio station permit can be withdrawn if the purpose of the radio frequency range (okay) is changed or if public needs arise which have priority and which cannot be met in some other way". The fully incomprehensible legislator of this text has wrapped this, so the proposed provision, according to us, is very controversial, allowing the republican telecommunications agency a great manipulation of permits and rights to use legally acquired frequencies, powers and rights. Such a member of the law and position in that member is not harmonised, gives room for large manipulations and is completely unnecessary. The SSJ Parliament Club proposes that it be completely deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29283	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 83 of the amendment. The Transport and Connections Committee has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 84th amendment. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29284	I am surprised that the Assembly, as well as the Legislative Committee, accepted the amendment to the same member of the government of the Republic of Serbia. This only goes in favour of everything that our MPs have said in a political and professional way, and leading us to the rounding of amendments submitted by MPs from our parliamentary group, this is my amendment to article 84 and Mr Kragovic's amendment to Article 86. There was no need, and the time was like that, because on Saturday we got a call for a session that started yesterday. There was no need to continue to submit amendments to the chapter on the protection of users, international telecommunications, criminal provisions, not to be surprised by the gentleman - we don't know who he is or what he is, as a mummy has been sitting here for two days - why there is no further amendments to Serbian radicals. This is for the simple reason that we felt that through such an argument made by Mr Krasic, like all of us, you would come to the conclusion that it is impossible for such an authority to exist as was established by this law, that the whole concept would thus fall into the water and start making a serious law, which would not concern only international standards and stinting certain members and chapters, as dictated outside, and in this case the European Union. You accepted all their demands. This is why the amendment to Article 84 was submitted. There's talk of numeration, as well as the numeration plan. You'd say it's a purely professional thing in the field of telecommunications, so why do we now have so much potential for that member? It is that this fits our concept that such professional activities in the field of telecommunications are not engaged by the agency, which is your idea, which is going through the whole legislative concept, but that it can be a commission; means, the expert body of the Ministry of Telecommunications, which will also deal with this area. That is why, in the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS, I ask that the word "age" be replaced by the word "committee". It's not just about the commission and the name of the body, it's about the fact that it's clearly showing here the intensity of the proposing himself and the authority to have that agency. You couldn't convince us from the first member of the agency's anti-monopoly position, for the simple reason that from the first, then over the ninth, the agency's powers are clearly spoken of, and here that part of the jurisdiction is transferred to the numbering plan. It's clear that no one will have any control. You're just declaring that the National Assembly is able, as well as the general public, to get acquainted with what the agency is doing. We have a bitter experience that has paid hundreds of thousands of workers in this country at the price of cancellation, so first of all, this trend with the agencies, established by the Privatisation Agency, at the ministry which has been very unsuccessfully, but for its own benefit led by Aleksandar Vlahovic; for it we do not even know how to make contracts, for example in the flag of pre-negotiations with an American fraud; we have seen what it looks like and what happens next. That's why you're in trouble now. That's why there's a shortage of money. That's why the payoff, during the Easter holidays, is a pension within 7-8 days, because first you have to make up the budget, which is in such a deficit, all of what you're asking for credits and interest these external employers of yours, and then what's left to deploy here. Since the entire public has been excluded from this session and today -- you didn't want to, although it's not a technical problem, because it's also clear from this insight, from RTS, that it's possible to transfer the congregations -- it's your intention to make such important system laws, and in this case by a very bad law, to decide far from the eyes of the entire public.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29285	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29286	You've heard the explanation of this amendment. I don't want to say it again, I just want to point out to the promoter that some things aren't handled properly or they're contradictory. You see, in Article 84(3), you say, the Agency assigns public telecommunications operators numbers from the Plan. That's clear. But remember, in previous members, you said it was a limited resource. We had some amendments here that indicated that there was no limit at all, that it was a problem for you, but that was solved. If the agency assigns public telecommunications operators, then Telekom Srbija is assigned numbers, then the last attitude is not working. If that's the national resource, then the one who got the right to use such a resource can't say "pump dots don't work", I'm giving it to the third person for commercial services. Previously, it is said that a public telecommunications operator has a duty to pay compensation for these allocated numbers. Attitude 3 and final position are in total contradiction. So when they compete, when they're assigned, it's a limited resource. When someone gets it, they give it to the third for commercial services. Watch out, not for your own needs, but for commercial services. Then he says he can. You said it with the agency's prior consent. What's that? If he wanted someone to participate in the competition and counted on those numbers, he didn't get them, so now he's got someone else at his disposal and gives it to someone else. That's what you said as soon as you said the numbering was a limited resource available to the state. The previous agreement cannot replace public competition. I know there won't be any bigger problems at first, because there's a company here that's doing these services, and it's good that it's a monopoliest in some way and under some control. Keep in mind that such a formulation can give some people the opportunity, both in agencies and future operators who get and get some approval, to use power and a good position, to get a good deal in the agency and take something like this; and the previous consent of the agency cannot allow them to replace public competition. I hope you understand what this is all about. This is about things you've shown by being contradictory. So, the national fortune cannot be found on the basis of previous consent. Maybe it's a little harsh and harsh word when it's said "contaminations," but prior consent means nothing in this process.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29287	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 86th proposed law to replace the word "age" by the minister in charge of telecommunications affairs. This member regulates standards and conditions for the construction of telecommunications networks, it is necessary to replace the word "agency" with the words "minister in charge of telecommunications affairs", because here some responsibilities are too large and cannot be carried out by the agency. For example, in the first position, the Agency, in accordance with this law, adopts a general act laying down standards, and general acts can only be adopted by the Assembly or by the Government, and it is therefore necessary to state here that the Minister in charge of telecommunications affairs, in accordance with this law, adopts general acts that prescribe standards for telecommunications networks. Then, in the following position, the Agency prescribes standards based on international standards and technical rules, the same should be replaced and stood - that the Minister responsible for telecommunications affairs prescribes standards based on international standards and technical regulations in the area of telecommunications. Furthermore, in the following position, the Agency shall monitor compliance with the prescribed standards and standards and issue appropriate technical authorisations - certificates, and the SRS parliamentary club shall propose to deal with this area by the Minister responsible for telecommunications affairs, which will exercise compliance control and issue technical permits or certificates. In the following point, we also have that, if the Agency has not prescribed, the telecommunications networks, systems and funds are directly subject to the relevant standards and technical regulations applicable in the European Union; this harmonisation should be carried out by the Ministry or the Minister responsible for Telecommunications Affairs. Furthermore, in the next position - this member is very large and I will have to read more - telecommunications networks, systems and funds can be put into operation and used after reviewing and approval of their use by the Agency, and the proposal by the Serbian Radicals is to be made by the Minister responsible for telecommunications affairs, if all the prescribed technical conditions are met, i.e. if the technical examination of the reception of that telecommunications network is carried out. Information or information on the technical review of the telecommunications network, system, or means shall be entered into a specific form of which the Agency has established its form and content, and the amendment shall propose not to be done by the Agency, but to the Minister responsible for telecommunications activities and whose one copy is provided when the technical examination is carried out. In the last position of this Article of the 86th Law, you are neglecting certificates, i.e. for a technical examination, the costs of issuing certificates, i.e. carrying out a technical examination, in accordance with the price list of costs incurred by the Agency; not, but by the Minister responsible for telecommunications affairs, we propose, because for the issue of certificates, licences, licences and everything else, substantial funds must be collected which must go to the revenue side of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and not in some agency that will be financed on the basis of these funds, thus creating a group which, as previously seen, (there is a danger) will take over the tasks of the state authority. This amendment would prevent the domination of that agency that you want to form, and all competences regarding telecommunications networks and funds would be transferred to the authority of the Ministry of Telecommunications, which is normal, because that is what the ministry is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29289	The word has an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary club, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29290	With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the promoter that six members cannot be solved for what you put the title of the head to be seven. Not with six members, because two existing laws, both federal and republican, with much more provisions, have also not solved the area. It's not good when it's being transferred to the agency, because she can't solve those problems. The problems are, I hope, that the promoters listen, which is not a unique opportunity, in view of that law a few days ago on construction and planning, to arrange in a unique way a construction and technical abstract of such investments as a network, a system of telecommunications, equipment and so on. I don't want to say it again, because I've already talked about what the problems are. I just want to show you that you have not defined the right of office to the extent that it is necessary to assist in the application of the Expropriation Act, which precedes the service when the cables are placed and the network is done. Furthermore, the system of real burdens to be set up on immovableities where cables pass, i.e. fixed telephony, is, unfortunately, regulated by technical standards and regulations, and this is a major disturbance later when a dispute is resolved before the court; if a bulldozer or any construction is hit by a bulldozer and a highway or an international platoon that is clouded at that site, and there are no records or anything about it. With such agency powers, you seem practically to be taking over the public authority of the existing company that deals with these fixed telephony businesses and you're just short of showing -- the agency gives design conditions and gives consent to technical documentation, and that's all there is to it, and it's a complete job when it comes to all these investments in fixed telephony. There will be great problems in the application of this law. This law will hitchhike the development of fixed telephony, and if anything goes wrong, it will go along with a number of disputes. You, I suppose, and now you know that Telekom is limited, and in what sense? When he performs investment works by the roads, he must seek the consent of the Road Directorate. When the travel industry spreads its way, so it needs to go over the cables where Telekom set it up, then Telekom moves again at his expense. It's an actual state of affairs, a discrepancy of the Law on Roads and Laws that regulates the system of connections. The Law on Planning and Construction refused to touch those things either, the minister boasted that there are 17, 18 new sublegal acts to be dealt with, and this cannot be resolved by those acts. You know, it's going to be a big problem, because I was just talking about amortizing these equipment, slow investment and maintenance of these equipment, the need to modernise, to replace some power plants without talking about some second or third generation power plants that are so old that they're more practically unusable for those last mails. You, in practice, do not give the principles or principles with these five provisions, in what sense that future agency of yours will solve these matters. This is a problem that will reproduce a new problem for you, and it consists in the following: the current system does not know what a prepaid relationship is, is it a personal right, is it property law, so the owner of the apartment dies, the one who concluded the contract and cannot inherit the phone should be managed administratively. You, in practice, by means of an agency that has public authority, regulate Telekom's business, which also has public authority. That's inadmissible. This is going to be a big problem, which is why this law will not be able to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29291	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29292	In Article 87. The draft law refers to the construction and setting up of telecommunications networks, systems and resources, and in paragraph 3, on which I propose an amendment, the closer regulation for which reasons the Telecommunications Agency may order two or more telecommunications operators to jointly use infrastructure facilities, i.e. when the Agency is able to co-operate. That's when two operators cannot agree, and for that there are technical or other justifiable reasons. I suggest that this is deleted, I think it's excessive to define that these reasons can be technically or otherwise justified, but that it's enough to prescribe that the Agency can order the co-operation of infrastructure facilities for reasons that can't even be different than technical. This definition is an important element of the anti-monopoly character of this member of the bill, so I propose to delete those words, and at the end of this position, "the agency can order two or more TK operators to jointly use infrastructure facilities, i.e. to order the operator - the owner of the facility to enable another telecommunications operator to co-operate, with a fair fee" - I add the words "real costs", so that the text reads - "imposed to enable another telecommunications operator to co-exploit, with a fair fee of real costs". I believe that defining this fair fee as real costs of co-exploiting infrastructure facilities would further express the important anti-monopol function of Article 87. The bill, because then it wouldn't be subject to abuse, which I'm not saying will come, but we have to have a system like this for all time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29293	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move to Article 92, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Todorovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word on behalf of a group of applicants, MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29294	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about protecting the users, i.e. rights of the user of telecommunications services. The Serbian Unity Party MP club amended its sentence in Article 92, paragraph 1, in the sense that the words "on request" are deleted. I'll read you a whole sentence to make that more clear. "Besides the right to uninterrupted use and quality public telecommunications services, as well as the right to privacy and security of information, users of public telecommunications services or public telecommunications networks have the right to obtain from public telecommunications operators (on request - deleted), without paying a special fee, an account with specific calls and costs, for an appropriate accounting period." It is a technical amendment to this draft law in Article 92. I think the legislator should accept this, because at the very end of the line, we all need to protect users and consumers and help them monitor some of the costs that come up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29295	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29296	I would like to comment on this amendment, because this formulation that the promoter has given, and what the amendment proposes only sounds nice, but it's technically inconclusive. Over 50% of the phone connections are unable to get a list and see. It's the condition of our phone stations and we can bring amendments whatever we want, but we can't change the actual state. There's one thing where the proposer has to intervene, because in point 5, you've annulled the existing state. It's a situation where a phone user objects to a phone bill. He has that right within eight days, but Telekom can't handle it within 15 days. They now have a 30-day deadline. You know why -- you have to go to the box, to the console, to the headquarters, etc. And don't tie your hands to Telekom with such a short deadline, because what if the price of impulses goes up, bills rise, and I'm not bidding right now, that 60,000 people in Belgrade are asking to check the amount on the bill, the whole of Telekom to kill himself doing this can't be solved in four months. There's no theoretical opportunity to solve it in four months. That's why you'd better keep your 30-day stay here. I'm telling you this because there's a next amendment for a similar member. But I have to say, there's no "no nagging" network here, there's no denying the right to a phone subscriber. He still has a chance to use his phone. He's not temporarily disfellowshipped. There's only advertising here at the level of the phone bill, and that should be resolved within 30 days. That's what there is now. In the case of larger accounts and when a number of citizens or users apply to Telekom, it is impossible to resolve it administratively from the office, it must be seen where the malfunction is, where the number is increased, whether someone has joined, whether it is on the console, whether it is in the box, on the building, whether the phone is incorrect. Don't ruin their already existing deadline. It's a 30-day deadline that's already been defined. In this way you do no service or users, and you are doing great damage to Telekom right now as the only one doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29297	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 93, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Dragan Jovanovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the word for the amendment has a People's MP, Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29298	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, along with counterpart Dragan Jovanovic, submitted an amendment to Article 93. A bill of this law. This Article shall specify when a public telecommunications operator may temporarily suspend the provision of services to the user. Among other things, it is predicted that an operator may temporarily suspend the provision of services to the user if, within 15 days of the day of maturity, he does not pay cash obligations to use the services. I think that deadline is too short and too rigorous. If we start with the fact that most workers receive late salaries, that a large number of our citizens do not receive salaries, that pensions are late, that agricultural producers are late to collect their products, this deadline is indeed inappropriate and the amendment proposes to extend that deadline. In fact, it's proposed to be 30, not 15 days. Paying up to 30 days late is punishment for paying interest. Everyone knows these interest rates aren't small. It should be assumed that only after a 30-day period should the public operator be empowered to turn off the phone and to deny the provision of Internet or other similar services. Due to the overall economic situation of Serbian citizens, I believe it is entirely justified for the amendment to be accepted. Let's keep in mind that the service providers won't be damaged either, because for that period they'll charge interest. So let's show a little bit more tolerance, so there's no phone off in at least 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29299	Anyone else want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29300	The promoter would have to pay attention to this amendment and to what follows the amendment. You have a point 1) and 2) where you talk about reasons when it is possible to temporarily turn off a phone subscriber. However, points 1) and (2) contain reasons for which there is neither the liability of Telekom nor of point 1), nor of the user who is excluded. Why am I telling you this? Because there's a console on somebody else's building, and there's no pulse, and the phone doesn't work next door, and the one with the console doesn't let those mechanics handle the controls. Please, since it's deep within the privacy and right of citizens' property, you've had to make appropriate provisions to prescribe it. The practice now is that in some transit areas there is an agreement between Telecom and the police, where the police assist and end the work on the tool anyway. Somewhere there is no assistance, and then a court order is sought, or otherwise, through the authorities of the administration, means in the same situation, the same enterprise from place to place acts differently. Who's damaged? First of all, the user was damaged. For what? It's not essentially Telecom's fault, it's not even the user's fault, it's just that he's been denied the use of someone's right. That is why it is necessary to introduce that provision in a way that limits property rights, the right to use, that it must allow access to someone to fix it, because these problems will be happening more and more often. You know when to move the lines that are the problems, and that's why this law needs to be precise and serious, that there's something to call on and "Telecom", the court, the authority of the administration, and in the end, the police, if it needs to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29301	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Milos Todorovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29302	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union, I represent the amendment to Article 98 of the proposed law. Namely, this is about criminal provisions for committed violations of telecommunications distributors, with the fact that a recent criminal act by Serbia has been sanctioned by an unauthorized possession of a radio station, for which a fine has been threatened, then the removal of a radio station, and even in the case of a relapse and prison sentence. We believe that the penalties for violations in this article are too mild, and therefore we propose that Article 98, paragraph 1, instead of the word "60,000 dinars", the words "100,000 dinars" are replaced by the words "6,000 dinars" and "60,000 dinars" are replaced by "100,000 dinars". Let me remind you that this is about unauthorized use of the radio station without previously obtained permission, then for the release of the radio station into operation without the technical examination and use of the radio station at the end of the validity of the work permit. With the hope that this law will regulate the chaotic state and the jungle in the air, it means to prevent interference, yet we believe that more severe penalties for the offences committed should be threatened, and thus destimulate the potential perpetrators of this offence.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29303	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Maravić. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29304	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a Law on Telecommunications, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, I submitted an amendment to Article 102. Otherwise, this member is located in transitional and final provisions which have special significance and concern the transitional regime relating to the situation in the area of telecommunications. As in all the laws proposed so far, it is proposed that the Agency be formed here and in the period until the application of the law begins, prior organisational and normative training of the Agency for taking over the functions set out in this law is necessary. I have proposed that Article 102 be amended and read: "The Management Board of the Agency will be established within 15 days of the election day of the president and members. The Management Board of the Agency shall adopt its Statutes and Rules of Procedure on the work of the Management Board of the Agency at its constitutional session. The Management Board of the Agency will, within 30 days of the date of its constitution, adopt general acts on the systematisation of affairs and tasks and on the internal organisation of the Agency. The Agency will, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the general acts referred to in Article 3, undertake the reception and deployment of the required number of employees." The Management Board may adopt only the Statute and Rules of Procedure of the Agency's Management Board at its constitutional session. Since the Republic currently does not have an agency and has no insight into what the agency should do, as well as how large a job is, there is a 30-day deadline for the Management Board to look at the size of the business and to do general acts on the systematisation of jobs and tasks and on the internal organisation of the agency. If the Management Board of the Agency does all the general acts within a short period of time, this provision will be without prejudice to the adoption of them earlier, although this does not comply with the Constitution. Since the Agency will do almost all of the jobs done by the Federal Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, as well as the jobs of the Republic Ministry, the Republic Community of PTT and others, and will in particular do new jobs, such as the implementation of procedures and the conclusion of concessions, licences, approvals, powers, and the control of compliance with those contracts, then to give atheists, to carry out technical examinations and to give technical permits, the selection and reception of experts will not be possible in the short term. This must take into account the fact that there is a commitment to keeping an account of conflict of interest, and that requires a certain amount of time. If the Management Board of the Agency completes earlier reception of experts, this provision shall be without prejudice. I suggest you accept this amendment in Voting Day, because it will allow for better and more efficient work by the Agency's Management Board and also improve this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29305	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29306	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 102, paragraph 2. The Government's Bill of Law states that the Management Board of the Agency will adopt the Statute, Rules of Procedure on the work of the Management Board and general acts on the systemisation of affairs and tasks and on the internal organisation. I believe that this is impossible in the constitutional session, no matter how far it has been prepared in advance, and therefore I propose to add Article 3 which reads: "The Management Board of the Agency will bring in general acts on the systemisation of affairs and tasks and on the internal organisation of the Agency within 30 days of the day of the constitution". It would have been better if I had suggested that attitude 2 withdraw and remain only my proposal, a little bit different, but I think this also gives the agency a chance to do all these jobs within a more comfortable and reasonable time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29307	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Zarko Obradovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29308	Ladies and gentlemen, in the provisions of Article 103 to the end of this law, so to Article 114, which regulates transitional and final provisions, mentions several solutions of importance for this matter, a transitional period and some problems that may arise when the agency is established and its work begins. The essence of our amendment is that in Article 103, which provided in this legal text for other general acts, for which the adoption of which is in accordance with this law is authorised by the Agency, is to be adopted within six months of the date of the establishment of the Management Board. First, the SPS parliamentary group took the view that the six-month deadline, given the experience that was mainly in line with the provisions of the law in the judicial area, had not been established in time or the Court of Appeals, had not been realised by what had to be realised, and had been envisaged in the short term, we proposed that this deadline, in order not to change the laws later, be extended to 12 months; therefore, that the other general acts, for which the adoption of which is in accordance with this law was authorised by the Agency, would be brought within 12 months of the date of the establishment of the Management Board. We also had experience that the Federal Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, formerly the Ministry of Communications, had worked for almost a decade and failed to pass all the regulations and all the laws that were authorized under the Law on Liaison Systems and that the Community had passed over 500 regulations. However, a large number of regulations remain that have not been passed. We have also tried to amend Article 3; it is clear that the list of regulations set out in Article 2 which will apply until the adoption of the general acts referred to in Article 1, this member of the Agency will be published in an official paper 90 days from the date of the establishment of the Management Board. We think the board of directors can't bring in all the general acts in six months, because it's a really big deal, but if the board of directors of the agency does these general acts in a short time, this provision will not be an obstacle. In order to look at all the jobs that the agency needs to do on the adoption of general acts, it is justified to publish a list of existing regulations, because there are those that have been passed over a longer period of time, before this agency was established, some reports and some of our findings are that this is as many as thirty years before today. That's why I think you're going to have an understanding of our reasoning and that you're going to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29309	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29310	In the government's proposal, the telecommunications ministry will determine within three months of the date of application of this law the initial groups (types) of services belonging to the universal service. I propose extending that member to say more precisely what needs to be provided for new subscribers for a public, fixed or mobile phone network, etc. (not to read the entire amendment); then it is much more precise which obligations should be provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29311	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29312	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 105; only briefly to remind also, at the beginning of this law, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which regulates the basic principles of telecommunications, I think that this member is extremely important and that one and another amendment should be accepted. So, both Article 3 and Article 105, given that the amendment to Article 3 regulates the area of inclusion in international telecommunications systems and compliance with European Union legislation, and I think that our interest in Serbia's telecommunications system is within that system and to be regulated in the way that all members of the International Union regulated it. I think this article has had an important impact on Article 105, given that Article 105 in the transitional and final provisions regulates the area of services and the tits of telecommunications with us. He has already been explained by Comrade Nesovic, who explained the notion of universal services; our proposal is to bring it to the government, not the Ministry of Telecommunications's responsibility, that it should not be limited to three months, since the date of application of this law, means that a system of services belonging to the universal service is established, but that deadline should be set really flexible and that it should be realistic, given that it regulates everything in the area of telecommunications. Why? First, the Agency, with the agreement of the Ministry, should propose to the Government a plan and deadlines to provide public voice service connections in real and appropriate time for new subscribers to a public fixed and mobile phone network, which allows the use of all services provided by the public fixed and mobile telephone concession holders. Taking into account the fact that public mobile phone services are now used in the European Community countries at prices approximated by prices for the same services in the fixed telephone network, it is proposed to use fixed and mobile telephone connections for basic services. This proposal has an economic justification, as the construction of fixed telephony on rarely populated and unaccessible settlements and terrains is much more cost-effective than mobile phones, it is easier and less expensive to provide telephone connections on those grounds. Since funds are also paid to the Fund for the cost of basic services by the beneficiaries of concessions for the mobile phone network, they will give part of the funds via connections to their network. In this way, all citizens of this country would be equally represented, so that those living in urban areas where population density and number of connections are much higher than those of those territories in the Republic who are really very unsuitable for regulating subscriber relations, i.e. establishing new relations and providing telephony services. Finally, I suggest you accept the amendment to Article 3 and Article 105 of the Telecommunications Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29313	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 106 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29314	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to amend, in Article 106 of the proposed law, paragraph 4 and reads: "Periodical fees and other monetary obligations provided for in this law, the holder of the licence or other appropriate right, following the issue of a new licence, will be settled within three months in accordance with the provisions of this law and the rules laid down under this law, for a period of time from the entry into force of this law until the concession is granted". Why are we suggesting this? For the simple reason that we want to protect the interest of the state, because under the provisions of Article 4 of the proposed law, licence holders or other appropriate rights will not pay periodic fees and other monetary obligations for a period of one year and thus the budget of the Republic and the Agency will be damaged. It's very simple and practical. Perhaps your commitment to refuse my amendment is related to a one-year term contained in the position of the 1st member. I don't think you're right, because in the first position, the deadline refers to the harmonisation of acts in accordance with the provisions of this law. This amendment, which applies to Article 106(4), reduces the time limit for the settlement of the payment obligation of the holder of the licence. I believe that accepting this amendment is in the interest of the state, and I'm surprised that the bill promoter didn't accept it. I am sorry that the president of the parliamentary club is not there, there is a deputy and I think it would be good to think about this amendment and accept, again, in the interest of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29315	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Velimir Simonovic and MP Rajko Baralic submitted. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29316	This is why I suggest that article 107 be deleted. The first position of the Government proposal states: "public telecommunications operators and other legal or natural persons who, at the time of entry into force of this law, provide public telecommunications services are obliged to comply with their business with this law within one year". However, I propose that it be deleted for the reason that this member allows the legalisation of the current illegal work in telecommunications and the illegal acquisition of profits by committing commercial crimes and criminal acts. I've got paper here where I've written down which laws and members have been broken. One of these laws states: "A legal person cannot retain the property benefit obtained by a commercial offence"; and then, "The property benefit will be taken away by a judicial decision establishing the execution of a commercial offence". This is about many violations and the Company Act, the Law on the Construction of Objects, etc., which were done by people who introduced cable television; they did not adhere to the Law on the Construction of Objects, they set up antennas, cables across the roof, wherever they wanted, etc. Now the government wants this member to legalize all this. I think you should pay attention to this amendment and vote in favour of my amendment, so that this article 107 does not pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29317	Does the other applicant of the amendment in the same text want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29318	I'd just point to another dimension of this problem that's caused the amendments. The fact is, over the past few years, it's been a real rush to these special phones that provide some services. It is likely that this is covered by Article 107(3)(b). What's this about? Telekom is a powerful system for our opportunities, a huge system. You can also charge commercial services by simply turning 041, and you can choose another number there. It's an area that hasn't been exactly god-awful what's been regulated in the past ten years. First of all, it was based on a contract between Telekom and Pink, and I don't order all the orders that companies, prize games, talk with sighs, ads, calls and everything. At first, it had quite a chaotic flow. However, a few years ago someone tried to get it in order, so some prior consent was needed, checking the contract. Obviously, there is a great interest in this kind of business, which is very interesting for the provider of the service on the phone, because it practically does not have to have a financial service. It's enough to have a phone, it's enough to have a contract and software to register and that, in the event of billing, it can settle that in Telekom's rooms with the man who needs to pay, etc. So that's one new favor. That favor wasn't ten years ago. It was for some of the chosen ones there. She takes on a more massive character. It's very interesting, because Telekom, as a public company, becomes the financial service of some other companies, legal and physical persons, because via their phone and some programme, they are able to make a great deal of use. Why? Because they use the benefits of such a form of communication, because if it's a small radio station, so everyone needs to say hello and want to order, and that station is out there on the town's periphery, then there's probably a small number of people who can find where that radio station is. If he turns the phone, orders a song, and Telekom invoices it, wait for something small, practical, that radio station could live and work. Some televisions have evolved in this way, and it should be said openly, that "Fonto" etc. There was quite a shift in the profit and income of Telekom, because he took something from Kobajagi, he charged something, however, that the charge was not proportionately used in this way. I assume these are the positions of the 3rd member. Article 3 gives the right to, after the entry into force of this law, the one who used it can continue to do so, just enough to register with the agency, because it's probably now going to some type of approval system. Maybe that's the solution, but if we swear to some justice, believe it's a bad solution, because the right to use the number 041 or those with 96, 98, etc. It was the exclusive right of selected individuals, who in the meantime created pretty good empires because they were resourceful and had people, once in Telekom, and now probably in the agency, since that part of the service was also covered by this, as they say, jurisdiction. From the point of view of fundamental justice, these amendments submitted by the MPs may need to be adopted. If position 1 and paragraph 2 is observed, then there is some justification to bring their business into line within a year and to provide the necessary permits and authorisations to work within that period.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29319	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Milos Todorovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicant of the amendment, the word has the People's MP Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29320	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Soviet Union, I represent the amendment to Article 108. In this way, the proposer of this law formulated this article: "The Agency will not issue public telecommunications services permits for which exclusive (exclusive) rights have been granted before the entry into force of this law, while the period of exclusion is ongoing". The Soviet Parliament Group proposes to amend the text of this member and such a formulation of Article 108: "The Agency will issue authorisations for public telecommunications services and in telecommunications spheres in which exclusive (exclusive) rights have already been granted before the entry into force of this law. A telecommunications operator cannot use the permission for public telecommunications services referred to in Article 1, whilst the period of exclusion under the exclusive rights granted before the entry into force of this law. "Let me explain our proposal briefly. Given that one of the objectives of this proposal for a law is to create a market environment and introduce competition rules, the solution proposed in this amendment allows new telecommunications operators to obtain the necessary permits and to carry out the necessary preparations for the quality of the provision of telecommunications services, at the end of a specified period of exclusion or exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29321	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment together were recorded by MPs Gordana Komic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment to Article 114, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, drew a proposal representative at a session of the Transport and Connection Committee. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposings Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, the minister of traffic and telecommunications, want the final word? (Not present. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – MEETING OF MEMBER STATES You have received a proposal for a decision on the election of members of the Constitutional Commission, which was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask you to hand over to the secretary a list of the order of MPs who wish to participate in the debate on the election of members of the Constitutional Commission. Please, all parliamentary groups do so before a single search is formally opened. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been proposed by MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29322	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I propose a decision to elect members of the Constitutional Commission on the basis of the Law on how to change the Constitution. The commission should do a historic job, propose a constitution, or end the constitution, which means implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. adapting completely to the new formal legal circumstances. It implies removing some inconsistencies from the existing constitution, the type of protection of social property, relations with the SFRY, the exclusive binding of the property relationship of the city's building land for state property, the provisions on the invariability of the constitution they set in the category of rigid constitutions; the change of provisions that define the state organisation, the organisation of state bodies, the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, since this does not correspond to what we promised Serbian citizens. This commission must draw up: first, a draft constitution within 60 days; further, to organise a public debate on the draft; within 15 days of the public debate, it establishes a proposal for a constitution; and finally, after a statement of the Assembly and a referendum statement, practically draft constitutional law. So this commission is going to do the whole job. I believe that this proposal that lies ahead of you is of quality and promises that this job will be done in the best possible way. The law defines the Commission's draft composition as providing the Republic Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the Kosovo Assembly and the Metohija. In the Republic Assembly, practically, except for the SRS parliamentary group who did not want to do so, the other parliamentary groups wanted to take part in this business. From the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly, no response has been received, and therefore we propose to accept the candidacy of one member of the committee on behalf of the "Return" coalition, a 22-member parliamentary group right in the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly. Therefore, all those quantitative and political criteria are met to include that member, especially since the inclusion of that member is a clear signal to both the domestic and international public to insist on the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and the Metohija. In any case, when drawing up this decision, we sought to comply with all those requirements of the opposition parties regarding their quantitative and personal representation in this commission, as well as their representation towards the national structure in the Republic of Serbia. This proposal, with the addition you will receive during the debate, was delivered before the start of the session, has included a representative of New Serbia in this commission. So this proposal defines in the best possible way what is necessary for the new political community in the constitution. Each political community requires consensus during its constitution, the widest consensus of the political and professional public and such a proposal makes it possible to achieve such consensus. In that sense, I urge you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29323	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we discussed in our own time the Law on the procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that this constitutional commission would be formed, consisting of 20 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, three members of the government, three MPs of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and three MPs of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, we have already pointed to the fact that this assembly thus agrees in an unconstitutional manner and that it is not impossible for this constitution, as you claim, to be, although it really belongs to those so-called hard constitutions, to be changed in a constitutional way. That this is necessary because of the discontinuity, it's not enough explanation for us. There are two kinds of discontinuity, legal and political. Political has already taken place and always comes after each election. When it comes to legal discontinuity, it needs to be run away like the devil from the cross. You know, respect for the constitution, whatever it is, means respect for all other laws, respect for criminal laws, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and when once or twice you step on the constitution, as it has happened to us in the past two and a half years, then you can expect things to happen that lead to the introduction of the emergency and the consequences of what happened while there was an emergency. There is no debate in this House, at least it could be conducted between the heads of parliament clubs, whether or not the constitution should be changed; we agree that some provisions should be amended, but in what form and how some new constitution should look, what is it that needs to be new - all this is not discussed. So as for the content of the constitution itself that regulates not only the jurisdiction of the highest state bodies, but also the organisation of the state itself, we here as representatives of the people have not had the opportunity to plead. We can guess, of course, as politically educated people, what concepts are in circulation, that we assume that a state will look as proposed by this committee that will form a proposal for a constitution, but whether we have the right as elected representatives of the people, 250, to pass on to a group of people the right to decide on behalf of all of us and on behalf of the entire people. The composition of the commission itself is also questionable. SRS MPs do not want to participate in the work of this commission for principled reasons, because we do not want to give legitimacy to this way of changing the constitution. I think that all parliamentary groups that were against such a law and who certainly would not agree in the course of the commission's work with many provisions of this new proposal, because they would decide on a simple majority in this commission, should not have given legitimacy to the parliamentary majority who decided to change the constitution. You have decided to change the constitution, draw up that commission from the representatives of your political parties, go to parliament, and if you get most of it nice; but there will be a simple majority of them, so I am keenly interested that after that, in the referendum, such a constitution will be confirmed. To be clear, the constitution should be written by professional people, we cannot neglect the profession, but behind each constitution is politics and political consensus. If there is no broad political consensus on changing the constitution, and it is not there, nor have we tried to create it in that sense because no one even knows what this constitution will look like, then we should not accept such a job. There are countries in the world that are not in this sense one constitutional - legal text, England is an example of this, but they have built constitutional order where we can envy them, as if they had the most democratic, perhaps one of the most democratic constitutions in the world. We certainly don't need to change for a change. You cannot provide two-thirds of the MPs in parliament to declare the change of the constitution, as the members of the 132nd and 133nd constitution are predicting, and therefore this law has been passed which further obliges us to make a decision on the election of members of the Constitutional Commission. Indeed, without demeaning anyone, I would like to comment on only one person on this constitutional committee, and this is MP Branislav Kovacevic, who won in Šumadija in 1997, as the Coalition for the Shumadi, Mr. G. Branislav Cole Kovacevic, 257 votes. I really wonder who this man represents in the first place, he got into this widest DOS, as well as why, probably thanks to Nenada Canka, but now he's in this group of MPs DOS - Serbia's Reform, and Nenad Canak here represents the AP Vojvodina. You know, these are the results that RIK made in public on 21 September 1997, which is 0.014% of all those who went to the polls, so only the Greens got three times as much as he did. It does not minimize the composition of this commission at all. Nevertheless, we radicals do not engage in your staffing, which you will propose to the commission, it is the right of every parliamentary group if it has already decided to participate in this business, but we are too easily engaged in such an important business as the adoption of a constitution. The promoter told us earlier that it is a historic business and I fear that it will indeed be recorded in history as the end of the Serbian state, because we will have new cantons, new principalities, new princes, and all of this leads to the weakness of the state. We want to warn you of that. We know we don't have enough power to stop you from doing this right now and to tell you that it's not good to do decentralisation of the state. We're not against decentralisation, but not in the way you imagined it. In our opinion, only strengthening the jurisdiction of local self-government can lead to real decentralisation. The creation of some new areas, with all the prerogatives of statehood, will lead us to create a climate that existed before the collapse of the SFRY and the state will be even more insignificant in the Balkans and a completely insignificant factor in the world. So these are expectations of a new constitution -- regionalisation, cantonisation, ideas of the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights and Zorica Radovic or the Centre for Liberal - Democratic Studies and the DSS. Whether they will have the strength to implement their concept within the framework of this commission to draft a constitution, on which MPs will not have the opportunity, according to the already seen experience here in parliament, to give any amendment. So, all of this we've accepted is that these people and this committee decide for us. We'll end up getting a proposal for a constitution. There will be a public debate based on the draft. Which one? Where? Someone's opinions will be respected, but MPs will not have the right to their own opinion and will not have the right to react to the amendment, nor to cross the arguments here and that the Assembly is pleading. It is something that is really unacceptable for us from the Serbian Radical Party. We have been doubting the legitimacy of this House for months to pass any laws, any acts, and especially the highest legal act in this country. You all know that here are people who cannot be legislators by letter of the law, who have been excluded or have left their own parties, and according to the Law on the election of MPs, they can no longer be MPs, 20 and more, and the narrow majority of 126 in the voting day is always "climate" and must be assisted with one of these parliamentary groups. But all of this questions the legitimacy of all these laws. Imagine only when with such a disputable majority you adopt a constitution -- how much can it be a democratic constitution, how much can it be called a democratic constitution? You keep saying you want to break up with the authoritarian regime. I claim that this is the authoritarian regime in which we now live, and that is evidence of these stolen parliamentary mandates, the state of public information, censorship, auto-censorship, the closure of the media for all political factors, for all participants in political life. The democratic flow of direct TV transmissions of these sessions has been affected. So we need to put things real, the way they are -- whether this is an authoritarian regime or whether it was, or what it will be after this constitution is passed. It's the easiest thing for us to close our eyes and talk about -- it was like that, this was wrong, it wasn't good, and now it's never worse and we're really doubting it, whatever your intentions are. Good intentions don't amnesty from consequences. You can want the best, but just because you want it doesn't mean it's undermining something that justifies everything that's done. Each political party has its own concept of state, social, economic order, social policy -- all of it regulates the constitution, and everyone would build into those constitutional norms what is in line with its political programme. We don't agree in advance with what we've heard will be and what the constitution will look like. That is one reason - so we do not want to participate in the work of the commission, so that there is no confusion, as has often been manipulation about why the Serbian Radical Party is not taking part in the committees. We do not take part in committees because you did not want to be principled and to allow us to be represented in all committees by proportionate forces in parliament. We hear that's why you got "packs" from the OSCE, the other day when they were in the assembly, they resented you a lot. You know, if we talk about the authoritarian regime, what should we say about this regime that brings such a rule of law and applies it so restrictively that the MP is being punished or away from the session for 90 days, because he has made a public statement for this speaker, a person's opinion. It's something the law has amnesty from, in which the Constitution protects us. When that happens, these are all features of the authoritarian regime. Two, therefore, are the reasons why the Serbian Radical Party does not want to participate in this: we do not want to give legitimacy to our presence by changing the Constitution in an unconstitutional way; the second reason is the one I have just presented. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party will not support the draft decision and will not participate in the commission's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29325	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been issued by MP Dejan Mihajlov, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29326	Even during the debate on the Law, we made an objection to the composition of the future commission to draft Serbia's new constitution. We felt that this commission must be composed exclusively of representatives of MPs, since the constitution is the most important and most difficult work of the Serbian Parliament. We were against this commission's involvement in the work of representatives of the District Assembly, because the citizens of Vojvodina are already represented through MPs in this assembly and some citizens do not need to be represented twice, and some citizens are represented only through this assembly. If there were already elections in the unique territory, meaning in the territory of all Serbia, and MPs were elected by a proportional system, why would the citizens of Nis, Kragujevac or other cities be discriminated against by the citizens of Novi Sad or another city in Vojvodina, since they would be double represented? Is the function of this to ensure I do not know what kind of support in the commission and to buy loyalty, i.e. to provide votes to vote in the constitution. Of course this is different and therefore this commission discredits itself. Secondly, who appointed a member of the "Return" Coalition when there was no session of that parliamentary club? They did not declare this, but was determined by Dragisa Krstovic, a member of the Democratic Party and at the request of the proponent, not at the will of the parliamentary club, who did not hold a session and did not decide who would be the representative of the "Back" Coalition in this commission. So we have another Democratic Party member through Dragisa Krstovic's proposal for this commission. Third, if 20 MPs from the Serbian Parliament participate in the commission, it turns out that only 12.5 MP groups can participate in the work of this commission -- how famous, phantom, illegal Banet Ivkovic group can participate when there are only 5 MPs? Who's got one MP cut off? Why is there discrimination being reintroduced? Why isn't another parliamentary group with five MPs allowed to be presented on this committee? Why doesn't New Serbia have a representative, although there are five MPs? Here is not the point of going instead of radicals. The place of radicals belongs to radicals, if they will not participate, and that is a political stance. The political stance is not to participate in the work of this commission. There's no need to fill that place with someone else and no one else needs to be cut off. How did Banet Ivkovic suddenly get five MPs and a seat on the commission, and someone else didn't get that seat, but now we're pushing someone else into the position of those who won't participate in the work of this commission. Why are we doing this? Who needs Bane Ivkovic? If Bane Ivkovic was the 46th who voted for Svetozar Marovic in the Serbia-Montenegro National Assembly, it is likely that someone needs Bane Ivkovic to vote the budget and now needs Bane Ivkovic to vote for the Constitution. Then you should have put Banet Ivkovic in the DOS reform quota and then everything would be fine. That would be about right there, not taking that place with someone else. The composition of the commission is entirely arbitrary, and it is not known who has identified the number of members of the commission, because we did not negotiate this at the meeting of the heads of parliament clubs and it does not stand in the law. Whoever was setting up, who was doing the math, you don't know it again, and the promoter is Mr. Pajtic, and probably he was counting or getting it done. All the standards of some parliamentaryism are being completely violated. If we wanted to get to the number, then the president of the assembly had to invite all the presidents of the parliamentary groups and agree on the number, to say that the party belonged so much. Like this, someone was counting on it at random again, according to their personal sympathies. I understand that you are more sympathetic to Banet Ivkovic than anyone else, and that is your right, I cannot dispute that, but don't put your personal sympathies into law or any decision. I think personal sympathy should be outside of something called the law, and if they are personal, you demonstrate them in front of the gym or elsewhere, but certainly not through a congregation decision. I think this decision is, in this sense, completely contrary to the rules of parliamentaryism, the formation of parliamentary commissions, the parliamentary delegations, which should always be and must be the fruit of the agreement. If we'd sat down to make a deal, everything would have been different. We received a letter from the president of the Assembly who said - send us your proposals for members of the Constitutional Commission, and she didn't say how much, or when we agreed, or what we agreed. That's not how these things are done. That's how things are done if you want to obstruct your will and if you want to bring a constitution that will not even be from this House's position legitimately, it will be brought by MPs who should have stopped their mandate long ago. All of this points to one, in my opinion, a highly dubious intention to bring the constitution as the fruit of the consensus of the largest number of political parties in this assembly, the fruit of the consensus of Serbian citizens, but clearly, as seen through the composition of the commission and through everything, that the intention is to adopt a constitution that will also be one octolic, the expression of the political will of the illegal majority in the Assembly, and all in the function of maintaining the prolonging of power. It will all return with the same measure and the way you are now changing the Constitution opens up the possibility for us, when we win the next election, to change the constitution in the same way. Then what are we going to do about Serbia? Is this how a legal and democratic state is built, modern, with stable institutions and with a stable system? It's not built like that, and you can't make the constitution by setting up this constitution on illegal terms. It was never done by anyone, and all the constitutions were brought so short-lived. If we've had objections to the Frog Constitution, and to other constitutions, in the manner of its adoption, we have, of course, this one. I think it's high time one of these important issues was reached as much consensus as possible. I think he's in a good mood. The largest number of MPs would be behind one solution. There's no need for anyone to be forced into this congregation. Whoever resorts to force won't be long, it can't last long, it doesn't have good results. So don't force yourself on questions that are primarily procedural and that depend on the future of this country. It won't do you any good. Ladies and gentlemen, let us honor this composition of the committee. If the Serbian Radical Party is not going to participate, let it be known that they have not filled their place, that we do not appoint anyone else to that place, but let us sit down and honour the composition of this commission, as we have done about some other things, about the composition of the commission for some other purposes and then get a solution that we can all support. The solution would be to honour the composition of this commission and to come up with solutions that will be legitimate, because Dragisa Krstovic cannot represent the Democratic Party, and reportedly goes through the Return Coalition, which has not even been ambushed and has not decided to be it. It may be Rada Trajkovic or it may be someone third, but Dragisa Krstovic cannot, because in this capacity it represents itself, represents no one else or represents its own party, so all these are the shortcomings of this proposal, which is very difficult to accept and it is obvious that this work will continue in the constitutional commission itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29327	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic, a replica. The basis for the replica is a direct mention in the presentation of MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29328	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is acceptable for someone to talk about the suspension and the construction of the composition and it would be acceptable if absolutely not all of the opposition's proposals were included in this motion for a decision. Absolutely all the names the opposition parties delivered are here. You ask who wrote and who suggested names. You have proposed, meaning Parliament Club DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - DSS, Mihajlov, Jocic, Mamula. From the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group Dr Zarko Obradovic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Dragan Todorovic. From Serbian Unity Party MP Milos Lukic. From the MP group National Socialists Zoran D. Nikolic and from the New Serbia parliamentary group Zoran Ćirkovic. It is true that national Socialists and New Serbia would not meet the quantitative conditions that the Serbian Radical Party has accepted participation because it is one member of the commission of 12.5 MPs. Since the Serbian Radical Party has not accepted participation, the two seats are filled with opposition representatives. That we have filled those places with the representatives of the position, so that I understand the previous exposure. If we had refused to put any of the opposition in the motion for a decision, then I would understand, but it is completely incomprehensible to me what Mr. Michael is talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29329	Are any of the other representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word is from the president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, MP Zoran Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29330	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the need to change the Constitution is evident. In my public appearances and debates, I have advocated a change of constitution, for the simple reason that the existing one became anachron, does not correspond to this time. Something's happened here, ugly, tenentious. To believe it was an accident, I'd have to agree to be stupid, but I don't agree to that. So we're simply going to expose the history of the entire event, the misunderstanding, so that the representatives of the government would be willing to present it this way. The New Serbia parliamentary group received a memo on April 16th with the signature of Mrs Natasa Micic, a Latin, because it is a letter from Mrs Natasa Micic. Otherwise, in Užica everyone writes in Latin, it's not a dispute, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29331	National MP, bring together the fact that some signature is in Latin or Cyrillic with an existing or any proposed text of the Constitution or return to the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29332	The official letter in Serbia is Cyrillic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29333	National MP, the official letter in the letter of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is both Cyrillic and Latin, and the official language is the Serbian Croatian language. Consult the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't mind changing Article 8(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, for the sake of the need for us to use the Serbian language, then we called on the SRJ Constitution, which as the official language prescribes Serbian, but in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we are changing, is the official Serbian language.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29334	A lot of complaints, by the way, and I don't care how she signs. A man is signed by a letter he prefers, so I understand that. That's no problem at all. There's a problem in the other one. So on April 16th, a memo came in saying, "As you have not submitted your candidates' proposals so far, please do so by Monday, 21 April 2003... "and so on. On April 21st, deputy head of the New Serbia parliamentary group Mrs. Zlata Djeric, on a timely basis, presented the office with a proposal from the New Serbia parliamentary group. After that comes this text of yours, in which you deleted New Serbia from the records. I'm following up on the trail, so I'm going to go to the office and find out that this was handed over, but there's no paper. It's a lucky coincidence that our secretary has this memo. Next, the secretary in the office is trying to trace the terminal. But there's no terminal either. And in the terminal, it was deleted from the records that the request was submitted. And then, following a further lead, we find that a certain person has taken these proposals to the candidates, but according to the secretary in front of the cabinet, Ms. Micicic has not arrived with them. And of course, we can't determine which relationship the paper is missing from. I really admit I'm stupid, you just accidentally made a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29335	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word National MP Dejan Mihajlov (second call).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29336	I think there was a material error here when someone said two opposition candidates were proposed to the radicals. Banet Ivkovic cannot be seen as an opposition, since he is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29337	People's MP, I remind you of your obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure. Your personal experience of the status of individual MPs cannot be the subject of your speech for the National Assembly speaker, and this is a warning to continue the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29338	My personal experience of Banet Ivkovic is quite different from this, but let's talk about this proposal. It is completely illegal from the position of appointing members of the commission to be appointed as SRS or another party. That place belongs to that party and no one can come to that place. The second thing - if this proposal included the name Zoran D. Nikolic, the Socialist People's Party's proposal, cannot be later appointed as a New Serbia gentleman, because the SRS did not propose its candidates. In this proposal stands the empty seat of the SRS parliamentary group, and as if someone knew in advance, was psychic, so he named Zoran D. Nikolic, or SNS in that place, knowing that radicals would not propose. I think it's a complete experience in this proposal. You condemn me for the experience of Mr. Ivkovic's party that it is not opposition, but how did the proponent experience Banet Ivkovic's party as opposition? You did not warn the promoter about his, but you accuse me of my experience as Banet Ivkovic. There are obviously problems with various experiences. I am experiencing it this way, and the proponent apparently experienced Banet Ivkovic as an opposition party and thus declared him in line with that Milosevic opposition, the favorite opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29339	Anybody else answer for a word? (Employer Garčević asks for a word. People's MP, you didn't get the word. People's MP Garcevic, you didn't get your word and please wait. First, I ask all MPs in the National Assembly that, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, with respect for this hall in which we are sitting and all of us, they listen to the explanation why MP Vladimir Garcevic cannot have the right to replication. The right to replica has a direct mention of the president, i.e. the deputy or authorised representative of the parliamentary group, if the political party that makes up the parliamentary group is mentioned; given that MP Vladimir Garcevic does not meet any of these conditions, that is why he does not have the right to reply. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29340	Ladies and gentlemen, I really think we're dealing with an extremely serious topic today. In line with the seriousness of this topic, which is undoubtedly the procedure or way of electing a commission to write a new constitution, I would like to tell you that we really need to approach this topic very seriously. The SPS is firmly defined in its views to defend the principles on which the current constitution is founded, the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, in accordance with our programme definition, we have taken the view both of the establishment of a commission for the adoption of laws on the establishment of ways to change the Constitution and of the establishment of a constitution commission. Namely, you know that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has clearly defined a way of changing the Constitution, but with such a structure in the Republic of Serbia, this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has passed a law establishing a new way of changing the Republic Constitution, which is contained in discontinuity in relation to the existing Republic Constitution; it requires the two-thirds majority of the Republic's parliament and that one in half of the elected voters declare themselves to change the Constitution and provides for a new way to change the Constitution. I would not like to discuss the legality and legitimacy of this assembly, because we could have checked it directly in the elections before it came into place to discuss ways to adopt a new constitution. However, this assembly has already decided on the formation of a new commission to prepare for a new constitution. This was decisive in defining the SPS position, and in line with the experiences we have already had in this House for two and a half years, that abstinence from participation in assembly bodies does not mean a guarantee to defend our party's attitudes and programming, our voters, our members, the citizens we represent and whose interests we defend. Accordingly, the SPS also made a decision when forming a commission to find ways and opportunities to change the Constitution and now, when forming a commission to write a new constitution, that it is better not to arrest, i.e. that it is better to participate and try actively to defend the principles we advocate, so that at least in this way we try to warn what is negative and what can be obtained by writing a new constitution. The SPS has decided that its representatives are involved in the work of this commission. However, as is very well known as the highest act of one country to all legal sciences, the constitution must represent the united efforts of all political entities to establish that state, the united efforts and attitudes of all political entities for a stable state. As far as all political entities have a fair representation of their views in the highest act of one state depends on how long this act will last, how stable and how many states will be legal, possible, strong, stable and just for their citizens. Therefore, I regret to conclude that this beginning of the constitutional commission is a bad sign for the work of the constitutional commission itself, that the constitution itself will be drawn up and what a lifetime of the constitution will be. I will remind you that in countless cases, it has been confirmed that it is not good for day-to-day policy purposes to construct some sort of solution to defend the interests of only one part of the population, to form views that are not accepted. That is why, this way of forming a constitutional commission is, at the very least, very disputable for us. In addition to the fact that I have to conclude that it is possible, in the composition of the Constitutional Commission, under the provisions of the Law on the Way and Procedure of the Change of the Constitution, to directly determine that as many as 10 members of the Constitutional Commission as from the DOS parliamentary group, as from the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group, as from the National Socialists Group, which is a representative of the Government, a representative of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. It's supposed to be written here by a representative, not an MEP, if I may say so. As many as 10 men are from the territory of Vojvodina. Given that the constitutional commission will work on the principle of majority voting, it should be asked whether this is an indicative sign that some of the solutions in the new constitution will imply a different way of territorial regulation, a different representation of the interests of the very population in the territory of the current autonomous province; whether the principles of a territorial organisation will be such as to protect the interests of citizens of all Serbia. I missed to say that, when we formed our position on participation in this committee, there was a overwhelming belief that the existing Constitution was good, but that there are some moments that could be replaced. That is why, unlike the legitimate rights of individual parliamentary groups that have decided not to participate, the SPS decided to include its representatives in the composition and work of this constitutional commission. Of course, when a parliamentary group doesn't have the necessary censorship to get a seat on the constitutional committee, we have to ask ourselves why this parliamentary group, as it is questionable whether it should exist, is getting a member. You all know I'm talking about a National Socialist MP group, which is not only here to protect the interests of citizens, but rather their role, both in the work in this assembly and in participation in the constitutional commission, to ensure the majority of the vote on individual solutions that will be incorporated into the constitution. So whether it's a territorial organisation, whether it's about freedoms, rights and responsibilities of citizens, whether it's about the duties and rights of the Republic of Serbia, it's obviously a problem here to provide most of the solutions that seem to have already been prepared. The members of the SPS constitutional commission will make their full contribution in efforts to ensure that these anomalies, which we are suggesting and which are announced, are corrected, that we find solutions that will be in the interest of Serbia as a whole, not its parts, and that we try to be fully engaged in this business to achieve one goal, which is the well-being of all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-23-0.u29341	This concludes our work in the afternoon. A unique search of the motion for a decision will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The discussion was reported by the SRS parliamentary group, so if there are no more statements from the president or the authorised representatives, the first one will be given the word of MP Natasa Jovanovic. If there's a president or a representative, then after that. So tomorrow at 10.00 we continue a unique search on this agenda point. I'm setting a voting day for both agenda points tomorrow, April 24th, at 12:00 p.m.
