ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 89 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, a number of MPs are required in the hall and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Pal Shandor and Petar Misic. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received notice of the termination of the mandate of MP Slobodan Pavlovic. You have been given a letter from the Secretary General of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Zoran Angelkovic, informing the National Assembly that MP Slobodan Pavlovic has passed away and that conditions for the termination of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been obtained. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice with a proposal for the National Assembly to, on the basis of Article 88, paragraph 1 point 8 and Article 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Slobodan Pavlovic on the day of his death. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (8) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time he was elected to MP Slobodan Pavlovic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's election list -- Slobodan Milosevic, on the day of his death. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, which was convened at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 10th Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. You have received a letter from the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 30 June 2003, which, as an authorised promoter, informs of a change in the agenda of this session. As you could see, for the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, the next Dn e n i d 1 was established. Proposal for a law on employment and unemployment insurance, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law on the granting of the counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the Republic Roads Directorate, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Selection, termination of office, or resolution of judicial function holders. It is proposed that the draft laws on points 2 and 3 of the established agenda be considered as an emergency procedure. The committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports during the course of the session, as is the usual practice when it comes to draft laws or amendments and the addition of laws, by emergency procedure. We're going to work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Employment and Safety Code for the case of unemployment You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Bratislav Đurić, Majstimir Budimović, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović; together Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomić, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolić and Vladimir Garčević; together Toma Bušetić, Radojko Petrić, Miomir Ilic, Joca Arsić, Golub Rajić and Hranislav Perić; together Radojko Petrovic, Milan Janković, Toma Bušetić, Bora Stanimirović, Žiran R. Angelković, Hranislav Perić and Dragan Todorović; together Dragan Žačaža Tović, Radojko Petrova Petrović, Milan Janković, Bora Stanmirović, Bora Stanmirović, Živar Lazić, Živodarka Dacin, Rajko Baralko Baralić and Joko Baralić and Joca Žažina Žažina Žažina Žažina Žaža Žarić; together Žarić, Mirko Žarić, Radko Žarić, Radko Žarić Žarić, Radko Žarić, Mirić, Radko Žažić, Radić, Radić, Radko Žarić and Žarić and Žarić, Radović and Žarić Žažarić Žažarić, Radić, Radić and Žažarić Žarić, Radić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, as well as from the Government on individual amendments. At the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the opinion was given by MPs Slobodan Adzic, Toma Busetic, Đuro Popovic and Borisvoje Drakulovic. At a session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, MP Novica Djuraskovic withdrew amendments to Articles 5 and 94. It's a bill of law. Prior to the opening of the principled search, MP Sinisa Mitrovica, deputy president of the DOS-Reform Serbia's parliamentary group, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31942	Mrs. Komic, dear fellow MPs, I have delivered a document in which I am based on Article 136. I ask the Rules of Procedure to unite points 2, 3rd and 4th of the agenda in a joint debate. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31943	I am putting to the vote the proposal of MP Siniša Mitrovica to bring together the debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport Taxation and on the proposal for a law on the granting of the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the Republic Roads Directorate. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 80, against 53, a abstentioned one, was not voted 8, a total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the National MP Sinisha Mitrovica on a united debate on the 2, 3rd and 4th agenda. Proposed by the Rules of Procedure or objection, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31944	Dear colleagues and colleagues and Madam Chairman, we are used to you interpreting the Rules of Procedure as appropriate, from case to case, and that is why I have to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Articles 162 and 163 refer to the session session at an emergency session, and Article 163 is clear in this respect: "The National Assembly is working in advance on the agenda provided by the applicant for the emergency session." That, in this case, is the Serbian government. She suggested a agenda, but we didn't declare that agenda. It is the assembly that will assess whether it will accept the agenda and whether it will work or not. The government can't make us do it unless we want to. I am saying this because Article 165 provides that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure for a regular sitting are to be applied at an extraordinary meeting, if the provisions of this Chapter are not otherwise laid down. If we're only gonna stick to these standards, which are provided for in IJ's head. An extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, then neither Mr. Sinisa Mitrovic could propose in accordance with article 86 of the reunification of the agenda points proposed by the government. Or we will stick to the 86th and the MPs, as provided for in that article, will vote on the agenda and, in that sense, establish the agenda of the National Assembly, or we will stick to the IJ's heads on an emergency session and do as the government has suggested. I really don't see a reason to do this. We have time to discuss all the points of the agenda nicely, after you pulled those extensive laws you delivered to us last week, forced us to work all weekend on amendments, and then the railways, and energy, and social protection, and you pulled out and left for some better times. It may not be the time to talk about energy right now, but I think we'll be talking about changing the Minister of Energy soon. Once again, Madam Chairman, or an emergency session or a regular session course, please do not mix the grandmothers and frogs and do what is right for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31945	The National Parliament itself read the position of Article 1, 163, which says that an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is working on the predetermined agenda. In addition to the date of holding of the extraordinary session, which are outside the Constitution of fixed dates, i.e. the time of the regular session, the pre-determination of the agenda is a feature of the extraordinary session. It also read the provision to apply the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on a regular sitting and under that provision included a proposal to unite the debate, as it will or will not, depending on the will of the MPs, proposals concerning the length of the debate in the principle or amendments, as well as provisions concerning the conduct of order at the meeting of the Assembly, which relate equally to a regular and extraordinary session. Therefore, no infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, nor by order of the sitting, nor by applying the Rules of Procedure as set out in Articles 163 and 165, has been done. At the request of the Parliament of the People of Gordana Pop-Lazic, I would like the meeting of the Administrative Committee to discuss the remarks under Articles 163 and 165. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours and that the time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the presidents, vice presidents and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to hand over the list and applications for the debate in principle, with the order of members of their parliamentary groups. I ask the MPs to allow normal maintenance and the course of the session and to reduce the intensity of each other's conversation, because it is a matter of good education and not the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Please, the word has been given by the Minister of Labour and Employment in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31946	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, begin the process of reform and transition, practically, the command volunteer economy in the modern market economy, imposed the need to adopt a new law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment, based on two primary principles. These are – creating conditions and encouraging new employment, gradually reducing unemployment and establishing an economically real and socially sustainable unemployment insurance system. The employment law is system and reform law. It will regulate the area of employment in a new and modern way, adapted to our current economic circumstances, but also to the vision of economic and social development. The law also anti-cipes and creates conditions for the successful continuation of the reform process, especially in the field of labour legislation. The law is fully in line with international conventions in the field of work. It includes standards of the following conventions: Convention on Minimum Social Security Standard No. 102; Employment Service Convention No. 88; Convention on Employment Policy No. 122; Convention on tripartite consultations No. 144; Convention on the Promotion of Employment and Protection against Unemployment No. 168 and, Convention on private employment agencies No. 181. The law also complies with the highest standards applied by the European Union, the principles of employment policy contained in the Treaty in the European Union, the Treaty of Amsterdam, the decisions of the Council of the European Union on guidelines for employment policy, the strategy for the employment of the European Union from Luxembourg, the relevant directives of the European Union No. 2000/78 and the highest standards of parallel employment law. The proposed law meets the criteria of the European Union and fulfils all the conditions laid down for members of the European Union. The law is conceived in a qualitatively new way. It includes measures that follow modern trends in the field of employment. These measures are aimed at encouraging new employment, increasing the professional and geographical mobility of the labour market in the affirmation of active employment policy, mobilising the unemployed in the direction of active jobseeking and establishing an economically sustainable and socially real insurance system in case of unemployment. These are the basic premises on which a new employment law is based. The law also creates conditions for greater and faster employment and meeting employers' needs for new employment. Given our determination to focus our economy on the market economy and that our main objective is to privatise the greatest part of the social property so far, these processes are inevitably changing the situation on the labour market. These changes also led to the need for full reform of the labour market, which is particularly important, by reorganising the way of work and the functioning of the Republic Labour Market Office. The new Employment Law will change the name of the Institute to the National Employment Service, which will not only make a terminology change. In fact, it is a complete reform of the current Institute with a basic goal of making the employment service a modern and fast service that will effectively mediate between the unemployed and the employer. Also, it means that the National Service must make much better contact with the private sector, where we are now seeing a space for greater employment in the future. The private sector reacts significantly faster than a massive social system, asking workers to start working on the same day. Hence, it encourages the proposal to install into the text of the law a series of legal provisions that are otherwise implemented in the modern world, which allow quick and flexible employment, thereby making the procedures of employment as simple as possible. By adopting the amendments, we have amended a provision in the law relating to the obligation of the unemployed to be available one hour a day for agents from the National Service, which is a practice in certain countries. According to the current proposal, National Service advisers and the unemployed will determine how they will make regular contact in order to intervene more effectively in employment. Also, by introducing private recruitment agencies, we will create a competitive relationship between the National Service and this should affect increased employment. The main objective of lawmaking is to create conditions and promote measures and activities for new employment. The introduction of active employment measures and defining the unemployed as an active jobseeker moves the accent with passive measures towards activities and measures that, based on experience from other countries, quickly give appropriate effects and create systemic conditions for faster, more adequate and flexible solving of the unemployed. Active employment policy is the basis for a new approach to addressing the problem of the unemployed. Such a policy encourages new employment, especially young people seeking first employment, surplus employees, refugees and displaced persons, ethnic minorities and, in particular, endangered categories of longer unemployed and unemployed persons over 50 years of age. The active employment policy is based on encouraging new employment through programmes brought by the Republic, the province and local self-government. To stimulate new employment, a grant is provided for social security contributions paid by the employer, which is a practice in the largest number of European countries. Moreover, the proposed amendment extended the period of payment of subsidies, contributions, pension and disability insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance from 12 to 24 months. It is, in fact, about subsidies provided through the National Service, when the employer starts a working relationship with an unemployed person who waits longer for the employment of a surplus profession or whose interest is low. Also, a period of payment of subsidies for an employer who employs persons over 50 years of age has been extended for 36 months. Additional education is one of the basic forms of active policy. It is a practice established in Europe and the world for the unemployed to come to a new job and there is no reason why this kind of additional education does not give us a greater chance of being unemployed for this new job. The unemployed are expected to actively ask for work and to accept the opportunities offered to acquire adequate knowledge and skills, in line with labour market needs. Additional training will create an additional possibility for the unemployed to get to work. In this way we have implemented the Convention of the IOR No. 142 on the development of all resources. One of the new institutes in the employment law, when it comes to active policy measures, is the Job Search Club. In these clubs, the unemployed will gain knowledge of how to present and create communication with potential employers, how to write their professional biography, where to look for information about new jobs and how to gain practical experience in job-seeking. Clubs will be organised under the National Employment Service in a unique, standardised way. This type of activity gives very good effects and does not require great resources. Business centres as an integral part of the employment service aim to encourage the unemployed to start their own business, to provide the necessary support for the unemployed as new entrepreneurs. This includes adequate basic training projects for business management, technical, legal and economic assistance in the first years of private business management. Business clubs are complementary with the activities of the Republic Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises and are part of a unique support for the development of entrepreneurship. Self-employment is one of the basic measures of active employment policy. In addition to supporting the business centre, self-employment is also stimulated by incentives. Incentives for self-employment in Serbia now amount to $1,754 for cash compensation users and $3,158 for surplus employees. That's three times the funding they provide in the Czech Republic, for example, $885, 3.1 times the amount of Hungary and $328 more than the amount of funds provided in Poland. I note that Serbia is the only country in the transition in which the government has adopted a social programme on surplus unemployment and where the social status of surpluses is resolved in an organised manner, according to the government's programme. The specific form of active employment policy is public works. Public works are not only a work on infrastructure, but a focus on working in the field of social protection, above all, means helping older people and disabled people; in the field of cultural activities – protection of cultural monuments, environmentals and others. Public works are organised to alleviate unemployment and address the problem of the most vulnerable categories among the unemployed. The category consists of unskilled workers, social cases, long-term unemployed, as well as over 50 years of age. The new employment law and especially the active measures that represent the most important newspapers are changing access to the unemployed as an active job seeker. Therefore, the unemployed on the record is expected to take and accept different measures and activities towards finding employment and this is a fundamental change compared to the current law. By accepting offered employment and additional training, an unemployed person will be given an increased opportunity to find a new job. The current Employment Act has not sufficiently motivated the unemployed to meet their employment, but by implementing passive measures and by extending the waiting period, it has reduced the possibility of finding adequate employment. The largest number of unemployed so far has waited two and more years for employment, causing invaluable loss for the same unemployed who, with years at the Bureau, lost their job skills, motivation, knowledge and security, as well as a desire to start a professional career in a company. Defining adequate employment is another link in the function of active employment policy, i.e. incentives for active job-seeking. The law found that appropriate employment is considered to be a job in the same degree of professional training and interest for the unemployed who is waiting for a job for the first three months at the Bureau. In the next six months, appropriate employment is considered a job in the profession, and at the end of the ninth month, appropriate employment is considered any job offered. This provision of the law, in our opinion, provides the basis for establishing the real need for the job of the unemployed on the record. According to analyses carried out by the Republic Labour Market Office during 2002, one third of the unemployed are not ready to accept any offered job. This conclusion is accompanied by the following data: despite the high unemployment rate, around 78,000 jobs remained unfulfilled in 2002. Although 3.052 graduate economists are on the jobless record, 3.177 seats remain unfulfilled until the end of last year. Also, 1.102 jobs for graduate lawyers remained on the Bureau's list of offers, although there are 2.729 on the record. There are 3,3.315 traders on the record, while remaining at the same time at 3,867 places for the seller's job. Despite 295,000 unskilled persons on the record, by the end of the year, 12,369 seats remain unfulfilled, for jobs that do not require qualifications. Based on these data, it is estimated that each third person is applying to the Institute for the sole purpose of exercising the right that they belong to him as an unemployed person and that their employment is achieved in the gray economy. If it is also estimated that over the past decade, about 600,000 people have had only fictitious employment in a social enterprise, while jobs in the gray economy have generated means of living, then it is easy to conclude that most of these persons, not their own fault, have been forced to exercise the right to health insurance through the use of unemployment rights. With this law, we need to establish order on the labour market, determine who wants to work, and who doesn't really need a job. For these very reasons, we introduce the Employment Act to define the unemployed as an active jobseeker and define the concept of appropriate employment. To remind you, according to international conventions, the unemployed are considered only a person who is available and ready to work at any moment. By respecting these highest standards, the law provides incentives and additional education for the unemployed who are ready and want to work. Flexible forms of work are becoming a predominant way of hiring in the modern world. In European Union countries, six million employees work on temporary and occasional jobs, for a period of time, on part-time jobs, outside employers' business premises and others. Of the total number of newly employed in Serbia, 295,270 or 59% were employed in flexible forms of work. The labour law has introduced a flexible form of work into our labour legislation, while the employment law will allow for a quick and efficient meeting of employers' needs to carry out certain jobs. A national service obligation has also been introduced to provide the employer with an adequate person for the needs of the job and to publish the need for employment within 24 hours. For the employer, the procedure for finding an adequate person to carry out the necessary work is minimised, and advertising the need for the unemployed can be achieved via e-mail, on the National Service website. The unemployed are obliged to accept appropriate employment, as well as to supply their data, in order for the National Service to be able to respond effectively and quickly to the employer's request. When defining an active employment policy, as one of the pillars of the new employment law, we started not only from the current situation, projected needs and opportunities, but also from comparative practice in countries that successfully completed the transition process. The Employment Act creates a basis for effectively curbing work on black, above all, by stimulating the employer to introduce his business into legal flows. Employers can make subsidies for new employees. The law also imposes an obligation on employers to report an unemployed person to unemployment insurance. In addition to stimulating measures, rigorous penalties are provided for from 200 to 400,000 dinars for unconscious employers who do not settle their obligations to employees, which will certainly be subject to an up-to-date control by the Ministry of Labour and Employment Inspectorate. The introduction of private employment agencies stems from IOR No. 181 on private employment agencies, which increases competitiveness in the field of employment and meets the employer's need for new workers. The work of the agencies is precisely arranged by the Employment Act. Private agencies will do employment, as well as the National Service. Private agencies are the only ones who cannot deal with the employment of minors, as well as the employment of jobs with increased risk. Intermediation services for unemployed persons are free of charge, and employer costs are borne by employers, based on controlled prices of services established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The relationship between the National Service and the Agency is not only competitive, but complementary, as shown by practice in other countries. The agencies usually specialize in the employment of certain professions or certain categories of unemployed. Starting with the principle of a single social security system, Serbia is a contribution to insurance for unemployment in accordance with this system for all three insurances: health, pension and disability insurance and unemployment insurance. The basic principle is to establish a realistic and economically sustainable social security site, while at the same time ensuring the adequate social security of the unemployed. The cost of unemployment in 2001 was 1% of the gross social product. Every seventh dinar was spent on the unemployed. Two employees in Serbia support an unemployed. In addition, I must point out that the contribution to unemployment insurance is only 1.1%. The employee pays 0.55%, how much the employer pays. The payment period and its amount have been determined by starting with European stand-ups and in line with the source of the funds from which the cash compensation is paid. The amount of cash compensation is set at the level of Austria, while the payment period is at the level of Slovenia. We paid particular attention in the law to the protection of older, unemployed and unemployed persons against pensions for which the cash compensation is paid over a period of two years. The maximum amount of cash compensation is determined at the level of the average earnings in the Republic, which is a larger amount compared to the existing legal solution. So far, the highest amount of cash compensation has been set at 80% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic. Our bill found the highest amount of cash compensation at the level of the average earnings in the Republic, and it is known that the average earnings in the Republic are always higher than the average earnings in the economy of the Republic. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour and Employment has prepared a law in co-operation with labour law professors from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, international experts from the European Union, the World Bank and the International Labour Organisation. In addition to this claim, I would like to read a few sentences that the IOR experts have said about the bill proposal, giving an expert assessment of this legal act: "We provide strong support for modern legal frameworks in the field of employment in the Republic of Serbia and the creation of a market economy-type labour market that leads to productive employment". World Bank experts have found that the law establishes a modern labour market and manages to consolidate around 50 rules relating to public employment services in one legal act. The law provides for new approaches that extend the scope of employment services, introduces active measures programmes, proposes a convincing criterion for unemployment. The proposed law also supported the Social and Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia, at its session of 20 December 2002, with which it was recommended to adopt the National Assembly. I am particularly pleased to point out that the social partners, trade unions and employers supported the draft legislation on employment. The law was also supported by the Council for Employment of the Republic of Serbia, which, in addition to prominent experts, consists of representatives of social partners and NGOs. The fact that besides experts, the law was supported by representatives of trade unions, employers and unemployed organisations is a sufficient argument, a strong message and a recommendation for the proposed law on employment to adopt and respected MPs. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31947	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has been made by MP Novica Djuraskovic, rapporteur of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs; the time available, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31948	There's no need to talk for five minutes. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I only volunteered to show my satisfaction in preparing and adopting this bill, which we are discussing today. Finally, it seems to me that this assembly, the MPs of all parliamentary political groups and representatives of the ministry, who worked to draft the law, have shown a high degree of tolerance and desire for co-operation. All the time the bill has been drawn up, since the law came into the procedure, there has been constant co-operation and communication between MPs, amendment applicants, of course who wanted to, and representatives of the ministry. As a result, 24 amendments, accepted by the Committee and proposed, have become an integral part of the bill. What's interesting is that this time it wasn't seen as a party member of the amendments, and this time we have shown that we can accept good ideas, good wishes and understanding of those who don't belong, as some here claim, the ruling majority. It is true that members of some political parties voted in favour of the amendment at the Committee's session if the applicant is from his party and voted against the same amendment in the same text if he is from another political party. It happened, but I don't think it affected the final decisions, and I expect that most in the Assembly, not only the DOS majority or whatever you call it, DOS-Mali, but really most of this assembly, which has shown this time a huge degree of tolerance, will accept this law and in its own day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31949	Do the MPs who issued an opinion at committee meetings want a word? The word has been issued by MP Toma Busetic, who has issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, for up to five minutes. I apologize to MP Novi Djuraskovic, the reporter has up to 10 minutes, but he has used less than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Milovanovic, I do not tend to address the members of the government, because I do not think they deserve the policy they are taking, but I only address Dragan Milovanovic for the reason that I know that his stake in this law is minor. He didn't ask anything here. Here are simply prescribed clauses, provisions written by perhaps the International Monetary Fund, perhaps the World Bank, perhaps some other international organisations, and this government of ours, our government must carry out all the tasks and all the dictatorships that are extremely unfavourable for this people and the state, and in this particular case, for all the unemployed people in Serbia, and there are about a million of them. The minister said this is an extraordinary reform law. This law is reforming to the extent that all other laws are in place, and I would now be apostrophe of the Law on Privatisation, the Labour and Employment Law, which is certainly the three laws that will have the most devastating consequences and far-reaching consequences for all people here in Serbia. These first two laws, the Privatisation Act and the Labour Act for all employees, and the Employment Act for all unemployed persons. If we just go back a little bit when we talked here against the Privatization Act. We now see how devastating the Privatisation Act is. The "Health" factory in Leskovac, an extremely significant and profitable one was sold for 3.5m euros, and only a supply of goods, means drugs and medical materials, amounted to 10m euros. Where's the logic? Logic doesn't exist at all. There are many other examples when it comes to the Privatisation Act. When it comes to the Labour Act, where the promoter was this ministry, we know that under this law workers have become modern slaves. They don't ask questions, they can get fired at any time: because of technological changes, technical, organisational, due to the results of work, because of the discipline or indiscipline established by the boss. So, this employment law is among the order of such destructive laws that have been passed in this congregation. This law will not speed up employment, according to the minister in the beginning! What black employment! Today, no one is employed in Serbia -- new jobs are not being opened in Serbia, except perhaps in some state bodies, public services where friends, relatives of DOS, their activists are employed. This second is a constant release, and this is popularly said restructuring, and whenever you hear that expression, when you hear the social program, you know right away that it's a big layoff. That's how it is in Serbia today. The point of this law, a crucial point, is a member of 93, and even in that article, we have several of these points. I think the most devastating point of this 5 is the point where it's said that every job offered is a proper job after nine months. According to this member, the job is just a job in a degree of professional training and a three-month occupation, six months in the profession, and everything behind that is appropriate. So we'll have opportunities for doctors to go to public work, to accept certain jobs. So this is completely pointless and what's the worst in this whole story, besides the fact that a large number of people are going to be left with no cash, the worst solution is that, by this law, a large number of people are going to lose their health insurance, so they're going to run out of medical records, and that's the most devastating thing. Today, in every hospital, ten days of treatment for harmless things costs 20.30, 50,000, and more complex operations, when it comes to cancer or heart, cost several tens of thousands of euros. (President: five minutes. Who's gonna be able to pay for that? I'll continue later, but in any case, this law is a wasteful law. We won't vote for him. He's primarily a dictatorship of international organizations and he's not doing us any good, which will show time that we're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31951	Do any of the other MPs, who held an opinion at the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Đuro Popovic. Time available for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31952	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, as members of the last session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and in the debate on the draft law on employment and unemployment insurance, I used the right to exclude opinions. In fact, I am firmly convinced that this legal act should not be given a green light in this high house. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the proposed law in the abovementioned committee is supported by only one vote of more than half of the present members of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. I've excused my opinion for a lot of reasons. New, in a series of so-called. reform laws, above all, the proposed text has brought down on its most direct users, i.e. all the unemployed in Serbia. They are more than 900,000 according to official statistics. It is a huge number, and given the claim that a significant part of this population is made up of people who are already working and doing it in black. The current DOS government, and in this case it unquestionably confirms how much it has failed its pre-election promises. The former were justly denied by dissatisfied voters, but they did so with unreserved expectations that a new political set would begin happier days and a better life. It's hopeless. Today's government is only trying not to betray itself and its own interests. Is there any more obvious evidence of this claim than this one is before us of the proposed legal act? Just as the Labour Act, the Law on Privatisation and the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance and other superb reform laws, and now proposed by law, clearly seeks to preserve not only the government, but also to strengthen its positions. All interested are offered at first sight much more modern, and reportedly with a verified Western -- a European recipe, set up solutions, instead of an earlier socialist, and with the aim of hiring and self-employed, for the sake of self-employed employment and curbing the survival of the gray economy. There should still be a smaller attack on the budget, in addition to the existence of an employment agency with the relevant National Service. In all words, the legislator is putting under the rug what will be devastating to the interests of the constantly growing army of the unemployed in Serbia. They no doubt offer rigid legal solutions. Is it not restrictive if there is a threat over the heads of the unemployed that they will be left to themselves, i.e. the loss of status and the rights of the unemployed so far? Even more concerned about tomorrow's coming generation, especially young intellectuals, who in their own country will not be able to count on employment in the domain of their occupation. By the way, I'd like to point out, although it's not insignificant, what materials, videos, the competent ministry is popularizing this venture. For a moment, we'd just be fooled if we were living in a rich and very barberish country. The bold legislators lose sight of the 500 inspectors, at least so many other officials (good for us and for the unemployed), and a large number of employees and underpaid in this country. For all of these reasons, the Serbian Unity Party will not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31953	Do any of the other MPs who have issued an opinion on the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move in order, Article 89. Rules of Procedure, on the word of the President or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. National MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, and National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31954	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I suggest we take a break, since Minister Milovanovic is not here, and this is a very important law and I don't think it makes any sense to know who we are talking to and who will answer our questions. Please take a break and ask the minister to enter the O.R. That's my request. He's in the lobby drinking coffee. They don't have to look at his cup when he's having coffee. He can't see anything in a cup. They'll see they're going to lose this function very soon. Do you accept, Madam Chairman, my suggestion?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31955	Go ahead, continue the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31956	I asked you a question. I'm asking you not to advertise a member of the Rules of Procedure now, I don't know which member of the Rules of Procedure, but I want you to answer me. You see, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't know who's going to answer my questions, which I'm going to ask, but I'm asking the deputy head of the Parliament Club, Mr. Sinish, to bring him in. Thank you. I'll wait until I get this in the time that belongs to me. You see, you say that Sinisha serves only to shorten the time in the O.R., sometimes he's also cooperative. Mr. Minister, I didn't want to begin my presentation until you were present, because you have the greatest experience. You were once a union labour rights fighter, and now you're a fighter for the rights of the Serbian government. I think you should hear what I'm going to ask you. I believe that this law that you have proposed, you are looking to take away the rights of those who have cash compensation, because several members in this law give me the right to doubt such a thing. You see, you're proposing this law, it's the same as when in the federal assembly first the Serbian people delivered to The Hague tribunal without law, and then they passed the law and delivered Serbs with the law. The same is true of people who are out of work, whether with law or without law, there is no job, Mr. Minister! There aren't a million people working in Serbia right now. Strikes are in more cities, workers are looking for what you promised them: you once said that you would bring a million workers from abroad, that millions of people would be missing in Serbia when you developed production and when you came to power. Unfortunately, this is not exactly the case, and what is the greatest damage to workers is that 500 thousand people will be out of work by the end of these days and by the end of the year. There's a much smaller salary, Mr. Minister, in May of the month than in December of last year, and what does that mean? This means that there is no production, that production has dropped, that even more people will lose their psols, and the Labour Law gives the employer the authority to fire 10% of workers every year. We of the Serbian Unity Party believe that this law will cause great damage to workers, I will only give two examples of how many people are currently out of work in two districts. First, I will give an example in the Shumadian County: 34,322 people are currently out of work, of which 19,695 women. You see, those who lost their jobs received some sort of compensation last year, and they spent money, on average it takes 15 to 20 years to retire -- what are these people going to live from? Furthermore, I would like you to go out for this pay phone and tell me how many new businesses in Serbia have been made since you were formed, since you came to power, how many new jobs in Serbia have been opened, and how much is known to me as a businessman, I have not heard that any new company has opened, except for this trade you call national savings, which have robbed the Serbian people and taken a brand of 30 dinars, and the market value of the brand was then 50 dinars. So this is the Kragujevac case. In Pomorava County 27,023 people are jobless, of which 14,794 are women. The cable company is expected to lose another two thousand people, and let me remind you, the number of people without a job since you came to power is five thousand and something in two years. Only at the cement factory in Popovac did the job lose 1,600 people, Mr. Minister, because these workers were deceived -- a slightly larger figure was given at the beginning, and these people now lost their jobs for all time. At the moment, the municipality was seemingly fine with the sale of the factory. But this factory was sold at that price that in two years' time the cement factory could make that money. The one who bought that factory, and you as minister, had to raise your vote in nine months in 2002, reported a billion and 400 million losses. For the last 10 years, the cementer hasn't had any losses, and then why are we selling them, these national treasures like the cementer, and what do we have out of it? Be careful, the Privatisation Act says that you can't sell parts of a factory or a company for the next five years. That was the case at "Cementara", a part of the plant in the cement factory was sold, so it's very difficult in Serbia. What I'm saying is, it's that you promised people who were on the street -- you were walking on flea markets, you were going to get them back into the plants where they worked, and you weren't going to get them back into the drives, you were cutting them off certain taxes, rents, various cashiers, and these people can't live on their work right now. They were with you on the street because you promised to take them back to the factories. For this law, Mr. Minister, you first had to create a certain environment. And what does that mean? This means increasing production in existing factories, creating new companies from international loans, but not from these offered loans, which are very unfavourable and no one can be credited to open a small and medium-sized enterprise, because there is no real estate, or intubation to be invested, are large guarantees, so that no single person who loses his job and gets an average of five to fifteen thousand euros, depends on how in which company he can become a private entrepreneur. What is strange in this law, Mr. Minister, is said in Article 91 - the unemployed is obliged every day to be one hour at a particular address they report. Look out, whoever's... (Dragan Milovanovic, Minister of Labour and Employment, from the post: The amendment is accepted, so it no longer stands. )......................................................................................................... It no longer stands, and the amendment had a Serbian Unity Party, then to say that the government of the Republic of Serbia accepted the amendment on a proposal and the obligation was lifted. You see, you should take down article 93. Article 93 says - the unemployed is deleted from the record if they perform work without a completed contract on temporary and occasional transactions. And that's being erased? Okay, and that's thanks to the Soviets, I'm glad the government had an understanding, but it's also an indication that the Soviets have people who are very successful businessmen and the SSJ programme says we're doing better tomorrow for our workers in Serbia. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, did you in that same article take down the obligation, that, "After nine months on the unemployment records, proper employment is every job offered." You didn't take that off? Now, you see, that's the biggest shame, in that same article, if you'd taken this attitude down, then we in the Soviet Union would say that you're taking care of the workers in Serbia who are out of a job. You see, this proposed solution doesn't interfere with young people entering certain colleges in some future period and these colleges for which you've introduced huge scholarships, because what young people are going to do tomorrow. Next, to this member of the law, you will make doctors in hospitals, watch out, see the problem: in 90% of cases like it used to be, if you're not a member of the ruling party, you can't be a big head of the department, you can't be in a hospital where you used to work with the same status, but they give you purses and then they send you, you go to a village, so that some doctors will have to wear the malter tomorrow... (Dragan Milovanovic, Minister of Labour and Employment, from the post: So there should be no doctor in the village? ) It should be, but not to be a criminal measure, but to go in a circle: one week to go one doctor of general practice, another week etc. You're going to make economists do something that is not their profession, and I don't think you should accept this attitude. This attitude is very harmful to people in Serbia, because we have a large number of intellectuals on unemployment records. We can't make these people do physical work. Says the minister - what, what's wrong with them? Well, you didn't say that, Mr. Minister, when you were in charge of the column and you were union president, don't throw it away like that - what, what's wrong with them! They miss what people were educated for, the minister said. Next, Mr. Minister Milovanovic, former leader of a union, I don't know how many members that union has, but that union should be harmonized with the biggest and strongest union that was on the streets of Belgrade a few days ago, with those who sought their rights, and neither you nor Mr. Canak from the Independent Union, did you bring your workers out on the street, and you had to! Because you all have the same obligation - to fight for workers' rights and to ask the employer and the Serbian government to look a little better at workers who have lost their jobs and workers who will lose their jobs by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31957	Do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31958	Here, I'm done, Article 115. - cash compensation rights. That's the biggest problem -- just nine months if the insurance company has an internship of 15 to 20 years, so I took that average, because the largest number of people who are out of work have exactly this age. After nine months, they're left with no cash! Be careful: they have lost money, and Article 125 says that after nine months they no longer have pension and disability insurance! Well, that's Mr. Minister's shame and shame. What do you need people for, if somebody doesn't get sick? Thirty percent of ordinary workers had difficult jobs in businesses where they worked. They're half-pained people, and the next day they'll be out of pensions, no social and no cash compensation. I think you have sinned here, this member of the law, and the Serbian Unity Party finds this law harmful. You can vote this bill with purchased traitors, MPs you bought for money, give cars, etc., but it's not a legitimate government. It's short of breath, and it's not exactly the will of those people who were then on the streets and today. Thanks to ordinary people, workers, you've come to power. They took you out and brought you in, and now you're with some bought traitors, like in these lines of yours now, the one who plays games...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31959	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will look more at the economic policy of the government and the overall economic and social environment in which we adopt this law, and we will talk about certain solutions through amendments, because we have submitted a large number of amendments and I do not wish to repeat myself in this sense. I would just like to remind you that we have received the draft law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment on February 11, 2003, with a proposal to consider an emergency procedure. The reasons for the emergency procedure were then - that, immediately after its adoption, this law would reflect the effects and ensure new employment in 2003, so I would like to look back on that and say, regardless of the reasons for the emergency procedure obviously lagging behind, because five months after that we are just discussing this law, that no law can or at least not this law, lead to an increase in the number of employees. Total economic policy, social, monetary policy could lead to an increase in employees and a possible increase in population standards. Failure to pass an emergency law would cause serious consequences in the field of unemployment and employment, as well as work in the services responsible for employment. The reasons for the emergency procedure did not exist at the time, neither do they exist today, so in July, before the annual holidays, in the course of strikes, we are discussing the law on employment and unemployment insurance. We should say that out of the total working-age population 40% are unemployed. This fact itself is alarming and speaks about the state of our country in terms of unemployment. A sharp division was made, in principle, of one "heaven" and the other "heaven". "Heaven" is for those who count 8-10% in Serbia, which can be said to be rich and "heaven" for everyone else. Otherwise, economic policy has been implemented in such a way that it has a catastrophic impact on social policy and leads to an increase in unemployment and social turmoil. We don't need other evidence, we need dozens of strikes that have been going on in the last few months and that are still happening, here, we have strike miners on the streets. The government's efforts to make statistics, with this particular method that is not science, but is a method that can prove impossible, prove that the trend in real life costs is such as to improve living. Although it is pointless and incorrect, and for that it is, above all, a reduced consumer basket. You know what gets into that consumer basket. Yesterday I saw it as a report somewhere: 17,000 is needed for a four-member family, and there is no electricity or other utility involved, so now whoever can survive let them survive from such a consumer basket. However, on the basis of this consumer basket, real amounts of earnings and payments from the social income sector are shown. So, depending on how much the consumer basket is worth, it depends on social income and profits. The crisis is increasing from month to month. The number of unemployed is growing and this alchemic maintenance of existence far below the minimum is just statistics and not reality. The fact is that state budgets and social funds occupy two-thirds of our national income. Economic policy has produced high social differences with broad social implications. It also resulted in social tensions with numerous strikes and public dissatisfactions, and thus up to the rise of political tensions. It just doesn't work out without each other. Growth in unemployment rates, unwarranted cancellations, low earnings, symbolic social aid amounts, problems with regular and regular pension payments, and others show a complete absence of social policy. Social dialogue, at least in that scientific or literary sense, is almost missing in Serbia. There's no real collective bargaining. This collective negotiation, among other things, would also have the role of regulating the labour market. So at least it's in normally developed countries that don't have this kind of social tension, so it's basically dominated by the form of a state-of-thematic farce in this area, and this law is one of the proofs of that thesis. With a number of other negative tendencies, Minister Milovanovic in a very easy way at one point reached an agreement with, he then said, representatives of the three largest centrals and the Union of employers of Serbia on the fate of those receiving minimum earnings, and the number of those receiving minimum earnings was around 36,000 this year in mid-January. It's data from the Ministry. In conditions of implementation of the existing Labour Act, and there is no need to forget the Privatisation Act which has and how negative implications and in this area, trade unions have been converted or almost completely expelled from the economic and social and labour law scenes in these companies, which have been privatised or which have begun to privatise themselves. What happens with Elektroprivreda and the privatisation of certain parts of Elektroprivreda is going towards completely destroying the unions, because it has proved to be very successful. Then we won't even have that third partner, we'll only have an employer, we'll have a state. Very often the state is also an employer and we will not have a worker who will be able to organise and oppose the Government or the employer in any way at all. Economic policy in this area has suffered a total collapse with numerous and irreparable consequences on many layers of impoverished and socially endangered citizens. The state has remained deaf and blind to the fate of many families, or many citizens, especially those who have lost their jobs in the privatisation process, as it is done. Profits that grow but only nominally, prices that rise, but realistically, a solid course of dinar -- have contributed to accelerated poverty and only government statistics can show otherwise, but if we turn around we see that the figures can match and that reality is only one and it is easily visible. The legality of money laundering in the last two years becomes one of the most important jobs; phenomena such as bribery, corruption, and other illegal businesses have created some new layer of rich people and are mostly rich only because of these illegal jobs. We should also remind ourselves of some figures, 1.2 million workers in 2001, working in non-equivocal enterprises; 450,000 people irregularly receive salaries for several months in 2001, and in the same year 500,000 workers work in the companies for which the bankruptcy was proposed; and in 2002, another 289,892 workers work in the companies for which the bankruptcy was proposed. What does that tell us? It tells us about what we were most afraid of, what we warned about when we talked about the Privatisation Act - companies are being brought into bankruptcy to free themselves of extra employees because of the future owner, i.e. The employer and then go to privatisation. As a result, such an increase in the number of workers working in the companies for which the bankruptcy was proposed is so high. Companies that regularly pay their salary for a year have dropped to 4.4% at this point. This is the total number not only of the economy, but of the non-profit as well. If we were to particularly express the economy, I couldn't find that data, but that would probably be disastrous. The rate of increase in unemployment is astounding and it could be said that this authority has achieved the impossible, i.e. turned Serbia into a state of inability to employ a working-age population. In October 2002, 885,742 workers were unemployed, which is statistics. Since then, every month, 20,000 workers are out of work, so it's easy to calculate how much this figure has increased and has already crossed the number of millions of unemployed workers. In our opinion, employment problems are really alarming. In this law, we have a concept of a limited labour market where state and para-state forms of mediation and intermediaries are inaugurated during employment. And practice and science show exactly the opposite, that the state needs to get as far away from the labour market as possible. That's what we learned back in the '70s and some years. We were a long way from being liberal capitalism, but there were countries that had done it before, so now we can remember that. It is also necessary to say openly what causes the gray market. These are, above all, the underdevelopment and inertness of the labour market that will not be corrected by this law, which will remain such, and the rigid regulation of labour relations, i.e. low wages and huge contributions. The contributions were never low. At one point, somewhere before the war, we came down below the 100%, I mean, 96%. And now? Since the expert Djelic took this under his control, the highest burden for employers and employees are taxes and contributions. And there's also the fact that we don't know what is formal and what is informal labour market; and we should totally separate it and it's about, of course, the gray market. The formal labour market is all that this law should regulate and regulate. And the informal labour market is what people have been able to do, by doing who they know and know, no matter what degree they have, what professions they have: He goes to the market, buys a gig or picks up a box, puts it on the sidewalk, and that way he tries to make money for bread. The total number of workers employed during the sanctions was higher than today. And only about 1998, 1999, did the negative consequences of unemployment begin significantly. But we need to remember that two years before that, then in continuity, we had a huge number of refugees, about 600,000 - 520,000 received refugee status and some international rules. These are the people who escaped in front of the Ustasha and the Muslim knife, who came here and we somehow had to take care of it and of course they affected the increase in unemployment. But what is it today? We can't see what this government's policy is. How to overcome this and how to provide what is available to everyone under the Constitution in an equal manner and what must be provided to him, and that is the right to work. Not the right to ask for a job. Every unemployed person knows how to look for a job; whether to go to the labour market to ask or watch ads or go from firm to firm and recommend or seek relatives, or join some political parties. Everyone is looking for the best way to get to work, and many people don't choose funds. The biggest oscillations of the unemployed only take place in 2001 and 2002. This is the result of the policy that this government is leading, and we now have a huge rate of visual and hidden unemployment. And we have hidden unemployment in those companies that practically don't pay their salaries, where workers are led to work, and what's essential to getting compensation for their work, they don't get it. How many such workers I don't know but the minister would have to know, all I know is that there's a huge number of these companies that aren't able to pay their workers. It takes, of course, work engagement through the private sector, and it is the minister in his exposé and cited as the biggest resource, where we could employ the unemployed. But when we talk about the private sector, we come to the issue of privatisation, because in 2000, 16.3% were employed in the private sector and now that percentage is halved. What does that mean? This means that private workers are no longer able to absorb labour, i.e. to reduce labour because they do not have the opportunity to develop production, to hire new workers and each employee - for them is a huge burden, because of high taxes and contributions, and because of the provisions of the Labour Act, where there must be a certain level of base on which the tax and contribution is calculated depending on the professional arrangement. Instead of expecting an increase in employment in this private sector, in fact, we have a decrease, because in the government of Serbia, obviously, one ministry does not talk to the other ministry, there is no real vision of economic policy, or maybe the reason is that one consults Germans, another Finnish, third Americans, and they, thank God, each one has their own interests. Our ministries and our ministers are just implementing that policy. The Serbian government does not have a vision of economic policy under which employment and labour rights are monitored. We could already see that and now we can round up with this law, along with the Law on Labour and the Law on Privatisation. Obviously, everyone knows what's going to happen next. It may be a small silence and be in July and August, but the social tensions and social unrest announced in the autumn should become the subject of the Serbian government's interest, especially the minister of labour and resolution ministers, because of the strike companies, so that the street doesn't happen to us. Believe me, it doesn't work out for anyone, at least it goes in favor of the state, if we want to preserve the state -- because there's someone on the side of the street who can't wait for a bloodbath in the country to introduce a protectorate. For these reasons and because this means nothing and does not benefit the unemployed in any way, the SRS and SRS MPs will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31961	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Toma Busetic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, so Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group and MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31962	No matter what the minister is here as a representative of the government, the hall is half empty and I have no inspiration to speak, so let's check the quorum, the chairman, in accordance with Article 82, because I think I'm going to say something educational.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31963	I'm asking the MP to take up his parliamentary bench. The mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group stressed the requirement to determine the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. Please determine the quorum. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I ask the National Assembly to provide me with a list of this established quorum and to provide me with a list of Members of Parliament who are constantly working in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I schedule a session of the Administrative Committee, with a second item of the agenda, on the statement of measures, on the basis of Article 217(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which includes the rights, duties and obligations of the Members of the People. The word has been issued by MP Toma Busetic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31964	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Minister Milovanovic, as a proposing of this law, the Ministry reiterates its support for the adoption of this law and is constantly calling for the transition of society and economy, to the modern principles of civil society, democracy and the market economy, and that these are precisely the main reasons for the adoption of such a law, which they call reform. It is quite clear that this law is written by the dictatorship of those on the side and it is clear that this country's dictatorship policy in these three years of DOS authorities has led to this.... (Alexander Radosavljevic, from the place: DOS-Maliski. )......................................................................................................... The DOS-Mali, can and can thus lead to the sale of factories, that there are about a million people on the labour market or unemployed, that the state is falling apart and all of this is the result of such a policy, a policy that is accepted on the side, which brings nothing good to this people. The employment law, as I said earlier, will not contribute to any faster employment of people. On the contrary, a large number of people who are enjoying cash compensation today, I think that under 100,000 of them will be halved, and a large number of those who are unemployed will be left without these elementary rights that are now enjoying under the amended Employment Act. The fact that this law will ensure greater mobility for the unemployed to seek employment. Where are the cable companies going to get a job after the restructuring? Where's he gonna get the job of Bora miners and Majdanpek? Nowhere! And on the other hand, and what little rights they've achieved so far through this law, that right will lose. What is the newspaper in this law, what is the Minister's appeal and what was he talking about on the Committee? I would point out only a few of these essential provisions: the formation of various business centres, job-seeking clubs, various agencies. It's a pure distraction and there won't be any results, not with clubs, not with business centres, not with agencies! It's a useless job, and as I just said, only employment can be found through these clubs, that is, in these clubs and business centres, agencies, only activists of the current government, DOS authorities. (Alexander Radosavljevic, from the place: DOS-Maliski. Don't let me correct you. ) DOS-Malian authorities. Here, in this law, a new institute is being introduced, the Institute of Public Works. Of course, the promoter thinks this will be of great benefit to all those who are jobless, and we think this is just a punishment for those who are jobless and who are just going to lose their jobs. In addition, the criteria themselves are surreal in terms of the benefits of those persons who will have the advantage of organising public works. Who has the advantage? Persons who wait longer than two years for work, persons who receive financial benefits, persons who are over 50 years old and persons who are in a state of social need. Someone over 50, lost his job, depressed until the end, and now public work, digging some sewers. The minister, however, says the advantage will be to edit the facades. Imagine now a graduate engineer from Lola, from Gossa, may appear, may be easier in Belgrade, but for example in Palanca, the Great Plan, in these smaller cities to arrange a facade of a graduate engineer, a magistrate, perhaps a doctor of science -- but this is a policy that does not take care of elementary matters. When it comes to the authorities of the National Service, it is said that they are the board of directors, the Supervisory Board - but who will be in the composition of those bodies? Representative trade unions, representative associations. What unions are these? Mika Smiljanić, a man who was on the list of the current DOS in 1996, and then the Coalition "Together"; Branislav Canak, who has been well touched by all these years. And now they're gonna be union representatives. It's all in power. When we talk about these employers' associations, you might think of Bogoljub Karic. He is now a famous industrialist, the president of the association or Zeljko Mitrovica, perhaps he will be the president of the Association of Essradic Artists, including him. These people will be here and now they think or care for the fate of a million unemployed, who do not have, by this law, any rights. Article 91 discusses the obligations of unemployed persons. All these members are restrictive -- all members and provisions provide fewer opportunities and fewer rights than the rights they had under "our" law, when the Socialist Party of Serbia was in power. For example: the unemployed is obliged to report to the National Service personally once every three months, and it was four months, meaning more favourable; the unemployed person who makes the compensation is obliged to report to the National Service every 30 days, and we had 60 days; particularly the disputed attitudes that every unemployed person must be one hour in a specific place. It's in direct collegiation with that request to actively seek a job. How is he going to actively look for a job and sit at home and wait for someone from the National Service to call him? When we talk about deleting from the records (Article 23)), which is a key provision in this law, it says here if a representative of the National Service does not find him three times at a specific address. Who's going to trust a National Service representative? He can say he's been looking for him, he hasn't found him, and then he's following up the delete from the records and erasing these elemental rights. Of course, especially difficult provisions are related to proper work. Every job offered after nine months is a proper job. We're really going to have a situation after three months -- those six months of proper employment is a job offered in the profession, and that's a restrictive provision, but not so much. The doctor will be forced to be a nurse or a lawyer to be a father, a graduate economist accountant, but in conditions where there is no job and that is somewhat acceptable. This is the worst provision! Many people will not accept these provisions, and in this way they will lose the elemental rights of which I have also spoken, means: health care, health insurance, cash compensation, and it is clear that this will be the case. All these rights are restrictive in other provisions as well. When it comes to the right to cash compensation and the basis for determining the cash compensation - now necessarily insured persons have the right to cash compensation if they were secured for at least 12 months, and earlier it was 9 months. So, in our time, it was quick to get that right. The base is the average profit in the last six months, and in our time it was in the last, last month. The amount of cash compensation now is 60%, and it was 70% and plus 2% for each year of insurance and payment rights. It's restrictive, everything is restrictive in this law, it's all rigid and all this is absolutely unacceptable to us!- I'm sorry. Sometimes it's better when rights are legally established, even if they're not executed at a given time, than when they're abolished and they're gone. This is a policy on the side, the minister will say afterwards: the policy of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, they have set for us what is the amount of cash compensation, how long it will take, all of it is in their function. The minister says they were very commendable by the World Bank, the IMF. And when it came to Argentina and all the other countries, it was similar, and in the end, all those countries were devastated. So that's our destiny.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31965	The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group, and from MP Vladimir Garcevic. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? MP Zivko Selaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31966	The respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, the Employment and Insurance Act is a bad law and what is worse at a bad time. It is indisputable that, in our labour market, the whole unemployment problem should be approached systematically and some things changed, but the way and time chosen by the Serbian government and the competent ministry certainly does not lead to a solution. A few important questions are being asked. Right, why especially now make the law? The minister said the European Union's directives, the International Labour Organisation, were incorporated into the law. The question arises whether the directive has been incorporated into the previous law. They probably are. What are the changes compared to the existing law? How many of these changes affect the one who expects the most from the adoption of a new law, and the one who has the illusion that his status in society will improve? They don't touch him a bit or just by making his position worse. The most important must be those changes that go in the direction of restrictive and abolishing existing rights. Why bring the law now? The existing conjuncture in the world economy and in our economy, the transition recession, the problems we inherited from the previous period, the problems that have arisen in the last two years of the current government, speak enough about the fact that now is not the time to pass this law that will regulate the issue of supply and labour demand. The time to pass laws that will bring order to the labour market and which, as often as the minister has mentioned, others who have spoken about the law, will introduce certain disciplines of unemployed people who have no goal and whose sole goal is not to seek a job -- the time to adopt such a contract is the time of upcoming conukure, or economic growth, when most people who do not want to find a job are unemployed. Is today a time when we approach a million-year-old unemployed time when a restrictive law will be passed? I'm sure he didn't. The Democratic Party of Serbia is a party that has part of social responsibility in its programme, although we are not a party that puts social responsibility first, but today social responsibility and responsibility for the unemployed is also national responsibility, because the unemployed and future unemployed are a large part of our society. It becomes a dominant part of our people. It is terrible to see the structure of our society: when we see how many unemployed we have, how many people we need to become unemployed, socially supported persons, pensioners and others, then we see that the responsibility for the unemployed and other categories of society is not only the social responsibility they advocate, at least that's what the parties from both the DOS and the opposition say, but also the national responsibility. And the question is, why is the law on the agenda during February of the month, and then it's withdrawn, and we have it now, in early July? To be sarcastic, we've probably been waiting for the number of unemployed to get to a million, so let's solve that question, or maybe a million unemployed are better solutions to bringing in the Isaacs. Who needs the law? I'm sure the unemployed with these solutions aren't. They lose some existing rights they have in the domain of unemployment benefits. On the other hand, their position is improving? For workers, this law can only bring extra frustration to their bad position anyway. Because the structure of our working contingent shows that there is a large part of the fictitiously employed people who are going to be out of work tomorrow. The employers, the foreign investors, the people who are supposed to be the engine of the development of the economy, what do they have from thiscson? They don't have any incentive to invest unless they're forced to invest because they're going to have a lot of pressure from the unemployed looking for a job, so they're going to reverse their business logic, and under the pressure of the unemployed they're going to invest. We get to whoever needs the law. The government needs it. The government has a budget hole, it's had before, it's registered, and what's urgent, it's to cut budget fees on this basis and it's the only purpose of passing this law at this time. We're moving towards South Americanization, and that's certainly not good. Surely socialism and the legacy of socialism are not something that we can place in the ranks of something that is socially desirable, but the situation of national and social responsibility is also something that is even worse than that. Let's see where we are now: the number of persons seeking employment reached over 950,000 and increased from month to month; the number of persons employed at the end of March 2003 was 1,796,000, and at the beginning of the year was more than 1,800,000. So the trend is to reduce the number of employees. Conjunctures on other economic indicators, cost of life, profits, too, do not contribute. Profits have increased according to the minister of trade, which is again denied by official statistics, as well as all market analyses. Also, from that contingent of companies that work, we have a large number of people who haven't received a salary or half of their income for April. These are some things that make the adoption of this law relevant. What did we have as a trend in 2002? Reduction of registered employment, rapid growth of open unemployment - highly cloaked unemployment, a gap in supply relations and demand for labour, high unemployment in the field of the gray economy, a large number of employees in non-individual enterprises! Employment with us, on the issue of structure, is also not good and shows great irrationality. This law certainly can't fix that irrationality. He is related to the form of employment, to compensation, is not related to structural issues that are not within the Ministry's domain, and that is the problem. There is a strong imbalance compared to labour market and employers' requirements, for example in the economic sector. employed 5%, in a secondary 47.5%, in a tertiary 47.5%. There were 463,461 job vacancies in the period from last year, which was 14.3% less than in 2001. There must be an emphasis on the problem of statistics and the records of job openings, because we have the advertising of job openings, jobs that are already filled, but for a certain period of time. That number's a little smaller. And that's where we come up with the questions that are often mentioned -- how many of these job openings have been accepted? The main argument of the Vlads and the minister were that changes in the labour market were needed, the legal design of these changes, a large number of rejected and offered job vacancies. That is true, but given the possibility of filling these jobs, the reasons for unrealised needs despite a large number of unemployed people are evident. They are, above all, defined by a structural discrepancy between supply and demand for labour market workers, an inadequate education system, insufficient labour mobility - territorial and professional, poor working conditions and low profits in a large number of enterprises. So these are things that are related to a large number of ministries, to the government's strategy, and they are not in any way related to what is regulated by this law. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia believes that resolving the problem of unemployment, above all, in a more responsible government policy, is not only in social but also in an economic and social dialogue that will focus and create a strategy for the growth of our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31967	Do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31968	I end up, growth in the economy is the only solution to this problem, and no form of law that goes to restrictions and reduction of acquired rights. And that's what must be moving us away from the developed world.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31969	The word comes from MP Vladimir Garcevic, the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, followed by MP Zivko Selakovic, deputy president of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31970	First of all, I would resent the Assembly's presidency for working here in the Assembly, in July, in an extraordinary session, and the laws offered are not adequately given to workers and citizens of Serbia. Therefore, many things and grudges should be directed, considering that a large number of citizens are seeking medical attention on the street. As far as this law is concerned, I must go back, all that was offered as reform by the Serbian government, to advance and resolve the issue of employment, the issue of social danger, the question of the citizens' perspective, should be contained in the laws that we have already adopted, which are: the Law on Labour, the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Social Protection, etc. What did we get from these laws that we passed? The labour law didn't resolve any questions, it just made it worse. The law on privatisation - my city, the city I live in, is now a dead city. They buy out companies that shouldn't and don't deserve to buy. Some, with the help of the Privatisation Agency, the Vojvodina office, canceled competitions and bought what and how they wanted it to be. A thousand acres of fertile land was purchased, with all the machines, for 800,000 marks. I think the privatisation that's going on in my town and how it's going to move on is not good, we need to stop it and see where it's going. It certainly does not lead to the well-being of Serbian citizens and to the well-being of my fellow citizens. He says, "We've put in a business plan. We've all had to pay for it." Minister, the labour market says we're going into self-employment: and you know how many months it takes to wait if someone borrows money for self-employment so that money can be realised from the labour market. It is waiting from Belgrade, as has been expected before, the central decides, and as far as I know the receipts have not arrived, for those on the labour market, perhaps now these days, and the other day when I was asking, there was no arrival for the December month. I said, I've been fenced, where I haven't asked these days. But what does that mean? That means the reduced rights to protection on the labour market, we're behind on those rights. And if we sold the factories, where's the money? I know the budget is empty and I don't see it coming out of this personally. A large number of people will lose their right to work, without the right to social protection, and there is no development component in Serbia. What developmental components? The Ventile factory in the place where I live, the valves sold to Mercedes and Pejou, the most modern valves. What is it now? It was bought by the one who owed it. On the other hand, we said, we solved those criminals, so we killed them; let's find out where we get the money from those who buy, if it wasn't money laundering, and probably at a large number of "yes". What does this law offer? This law offers, simply, the torment of Serbian citizens, that what is now on the streets, will be even more so tomorrow. And what about those who are 50 years old, and I ask the question -- what happens when after nine months of waiting you have to take the job, for example, to clean the streets?- I'm sorry. Is that what the solution is offered, Minister? I wish you'd come down from power, to be the leader of the union movement, to get that job. I know that if a man has to feed his family, to accept what is offered, and if it's good if we're schooling for ten, twelve or sixteen years, I don't think so. It's not good everything West has to offer. We need to see what we can do in Serbia. I understand everything that is European, moves European, but what Gašo has introduced in this law on education; after primary school he stops, that children can't go further. You're bringing this in. What are you offering as a solution to people's employment? It would be good to see what's true here. The Union of Independent Unions says it has not participated in this agreement until the end. Please, the lie will be answered by the one who signed it. But you have miners here, did you go to them, did you talk to them. And didn't you tell me - we're not selling mines for anything, we're not leaving you on the street. Let me tell you something, Minister: as a citizen, I will always stand by the workers, that's what I did, and when I was the government that I belonged to, and now I will stand by the workers because our duty is to protect those who don't have bread. The store is down, I just don't know in Belgrade. They pass, they say in stores, they don't go in for days, and they have to pay taxes and everything they need to the state. Therefore, normal is all that is good to support. The collection of bread up to 40 dinars is announced; please, the wheat is where there are no state reserves of seven dinars, two tonnes, can't survive and why we don't declare an elementary disaster. Why don't we help the peasant. It's not raining, it's not going to rain, it's going to rain when I'm in power, then it's going to rain.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31971	The word has been issued by MP Zivko Selakovic, deputy president, parliamentary group of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31972	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a draft law on employment and unemployment insurance, which essentially introduces and creates a new environment in the field of labour, job-seeking, defines new programmes and measures in search of and finding employment. The bill also defines and foresees measures to introduce order into this highly complex and sensitive area, which has a very broad social significance. For the Peasant Party of Serbia, this law is very important if it is borne in mind that people from the village of peasant households have been increasingly addressing employment services lately, seeking some more secure social protection. So we believe that this law has its own good side and some minor failures, of course, as well as any other law that lies before the MPs of the people, because certainly nothing can be perfect. In my comment on the proposed text of the law, I would first refer to some proposed solutions that may have potential, and certain negative consequences. Some provisions of the law do not comply with younger people, those on unemployment records or who have lost their jobs under circumstances for which they are not responsible and could not be affected. In my opinion, these bad consequences may arise by deleting from the record and so on, as provided for in Article 93. It's a bill of law. In contrast, this member also introduces a certain order in relation to the relationship National Service - an unemployed person, but at the same time, in some ways, hinders the professional orientation and the desire of the unemployed to work in the profession for which he has been educated and spent many years of schooling. It is not good that after nine months of unemployment, regardless of educational and professional qualifications, any employment can be offered. This provision, if implemented in practice, could also result in potential consequences. I will only list two examples: First, it can lead to the destimulation and disappointment of the unemployed in case they are offered as a final job by someone inadequate compared to the one they were educated for. Secondly, it can boost the end of employees' interest in certain jobs and thus stimulate the work of "black" because, for example, work in the field of working "black" can be chosen, while in the event of an offer of inadequate work is generally taken or left, through the National Employment Service in the final instance and cannot be chosen. At the beginning of my comment, I mentioned that this bill also has a brighter side, so I will look back on that in the follow-up. The key papers adopted by the bill are related to the reorganisation of the existing Labour Market Office; it creates a new environment and stimulates job-seeking by the unemployed, as well as the introduction of order in the field of social protection of the unemployed. The law provides for the establishment of a National Employment Service with its authorities (Government Committee, Supervisory Board and Director), but at the same time provides for the possibility of forming employment agencies, which can be established by natural and legal persons. This solution to the search and job-finding sphere is significantly liberalizing. The state also ceases to be the only and exclusive monopoly in job-seeking and creates a social environment in which the rule of better and more efficient organisations and competition applies. For the unemployed, it is very important that there are a number of addresses that address and report to find jobs and jobs. Of course, the law protects the legality and integrity of the existence and work of employment agencies, so we can expect that the changes, which are envisaged and proposed, will lead to a better environment and will stimulate employers and unemployed. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not taken off its responsibility for the state of employment with this bill and it is very good and very positive. To this end, the establishment of a employment council is envisaged, which will deal with active employment policy programmes and propose the necessary measures. It is good that representatives of the government, trade unions, employers' associations and experts will sit together in the Employment Council because the council will make a competent and responsible decision. The law also contains provisions that can be called standard provisions because they are well known to our lawyers and our social practice. First of all, I think of the classic solutions that concern unemployment records, unemployment insurance and the right to cash compensation. The law also deals precisely with the amount of cash compensation for the unemployed, as well as the maximum and minimum amounts. For the Peasant Party of Serbia and the MP group of Serbia, for the reason I just cited it, is a particularly important member of 125. A bill that provides that the beneficiary of the cash compensation is entitled to health, pension and disability insurance during the exercise of the right to cash compensation. It is also good that the right to health insurance is provided for members of the family of beneficiaries of the financial compensation. The law makes it clear how professional supervision of the work of the National Service and the Agency is being carried out. It is important that the state achieves direct insight into the work of the service through the Resolute Ministry, requires measures to address the observed shortcomings and anomalies. In addition to all the positive proposals of this law, as well as some observations put forward, I believe that this law, looking at the whole, is good, acceptable, that it allows for reforms in this field of the labour market and that the effects of its application will be positive and beneficial for society. And finally, to conclude, the Peasant Party of Serbia as part of the parliamentary group of Serbia will support the bill and will vote for its adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31973	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives, the deputy president of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to a debate on application for a word, and by order of the MPs - the principle of the law on employment and insurance in case of unemployment. The first registered speaker is the People's Messenger Adam Urosevic; after him the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31974	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, Serbian brothers and sisters, respected representatives of national minorities and ethnic communities, considering the proposed law on employment and unemployment insurance, the Social Affairs Committee of the Serbian Unity Party considers the reasons for the adoption of this law and the wishes of the legislator fundamentally acceptable. However, the proposed solutions, despite the proposal that they are in line with the highest European standards, and their realisation is not acceptable because they are not suitable for our conditions. It is bordered by the political hypocrisy of the legislator of this law to regulate this area in conditions of very narrowed labour market needs, due to stagnation and decline in economic production, resulting in the existence of our citizens and their families being based on cash compensation. In a situation where most Serbian citizens are in a state of social need, in the situation of the country's investment in education and science, one young and educated people are leaving the country, rather than having their knowledge, ability and energy as the basis of the productivity of economic growth. The passing of such a law is complex and should be conditioned by the amendments of many other laws, above all, the Law on Education and Human Planning. Instead of selling out economic and natural resources, the formation of small and medium-sized enterprises that would create the possibility of new employment and new jobs, we are offered a restrictive law that limits the rights of citizens who seek employment and the rights of those who, not their own fault, have lost their jobs. In the reasons for the adoption of this law, the legislator, among other things, points out: the creation of a legal basis to encourage freely selected productive employment, the affirmation of active employment policy measures and the activation of the jobseeker. Finely formulated but the question arises: does the "encourage freely selected productive employment" arise from the provisions of Article 93 of this Law, which considers any offered employment, independent of the qualification of unemployed, the degree of professional training and occupation, or from the provisions of the draft law governing employment within the framework of public works?- I'm sorry. For unemployed persons with higher or higher education, the formulations of this member could be referred to as a paraphrased Serbian saying - looking for a job and asking God not to be offered by the National Service or the Employment Agency. Because why the intellectual effort invested, the financial exhaustion of parents, given the enormously high tuition and investment of the state in education and science, when it was offered as an appropriate job for two or three degrees below its educational level. It is indicative that the bill accurately defines the jobless's obligations as the jobseeker's activity. Each of the established obligations of the unemployed - regularly reporting to the National Service, submissions to the declared needs of the independent jobseeking, and the other in the event of non-execution, withdraws rigorous sanctions i.e. erasing the unemployment records, which means losing certain rights. If an unemployed national service fails to provide evidence of an active job search - evidence of an active job search and an appropriate ID confirming the day, time and place of the interview for employment of a particular employer, it shall also be provided. The correction is required to betray the employer with whom the unemployed have conducted the interview. However, the legislator deliberately or unwittingly failed to sanction non-compliance with the established obligation for the employer and did not suffer any negative consequences unlike those of an unemployed person who is deleted from the register. The proposal is also controversial in Article 91(3), under which the unemployed is obliged to be one hour at a specified address each working day. And unless three times in a six-month period is available, delete yourself from the employment-seeking records. The bill also contains solutions that reduce the rights of unemployed persons in relation to the applicable legal provisions. The amount of cash compensation shall be reduced, the payment period of cash compensation shall be reduced, etc. Other objections to the proposed law by the Serb Unity Party will be concrete through a number of amendments that we have submitted with the desire to improve this law and to match the conditions in which Serbian citizens live. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31975	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, followed by Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31976	In addition to those common remarks which appear as stereotypes when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its draft laws and for this law. The bill should state that although it is essentially two areas that need to be resolved: first employment, and another type of social protection through compulsory unemployment insurance, this law regulates the area but only to achieve one goal. In the area of employment, the goal is to reduce the number of unemployed, or fictitiously, that there are not so many unemployed, and for this there are these provisions coming back to us from the time of Marija Todorovic - an active employment policy! Even at the time of a socialist self-government society, it didn't mean anything, and today it doesn't mean anything at all. It's an ordinary flossula that I don't even believe the promoter knows what the etemological meaning of those words is and what it's supposed to look like in practice. However, the second objective achieved by the provisions on compulsory unemployment insurance, and a specific provision on contributions, is that we finally learn that this law is, in many provisions, directly contrary to the provisions of Article 40. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I must say to the Dosmanian majority that you forgot when you brought the Constitutional Charter and the Charter of Minority Rights to regulate it. And there is only one member in the Charter of Minority and Human Rights who speaks of the right to work but has no other guarantees on how to achieve this guaranteed right. I have to point out one example from which you will see how pointless such solutions are to be offered. Take, for example, a man who is necessarily insured on the basis of a working relationship and he and his employer pay mandatory contributions for 30 years; he loses his job, not his own guilt, and moves to the category of unemployed who receive compensation under the bill for two years, and I hear that some amendment has been submitted that this goes on about three years. Now, that's time-limited. However, the constitution says mandatory unemployment insurance ensures the man's social security and does not say during what time period. And here again, the state tells us, as with that pension and disability insurance law -- we oblige you to make sure that you're in a position to be solid, so that the state meets through the para-state authorities its own social function, and that's the problem, which is the whole mandatory insurance system in case of an insurance case -- loss of business, we don't have that guarantee. It is likely that a third of the MPs of this National Assembly will experience that this provision of this law applies to them and will then feel the deep injustice of this law. Injustice! This injustice affects those who are on the streets and those who say, "Now I don't think they'll miss me, but the poor don't know they'll be out of a job in two or three months and they'll be out of a job." The government will tell us on the basis of this law in a few months -- so there are no million unemployed, there are only 600,000. But the government forgot that the provisions on mandatory reporting to the National Service, I'm surprised that the Civil League has not submitted an amendment since the word "storage" will practically force the unemployed to report to that service every day and ask for employment, and the service says no. And here's the problem again. I do not want to enter those economic, economic, monetary and other reasons caused primarily by the destruction of this government, but I am expressing the position of the Serbian Radical Party on something that is contrary to the Constitution, for something that does not even provide a minimum of human rights, for something that only needs to cover the government that the million is not a million but 350,000. The SRS won't raise his hand for it, he won't raise his hand either because this law, past the Constitution, discriminates against people especially in Article 98. The man who is insured, necessarily insured, in case of unemployment must exercise the right to compensation independently of what is the reason he lost his job, because if a discriminatory basis is introduced that he was discriminatory, then the question is "why is it mandatory to provide". And since there are a lot of people in the National Assembly who are representatives of the local government count that after this law has been passed, at least for three months, many people from the Institute will have to report to social work centres in order to at least exercise some rights, if nothing else, then at least pregnant women are entitled to health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31977	The People's MP Golub Rajic has the word, followed by the MP Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31978	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, following a long wait, is the draft law on employment and unemployment insurance, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So another reform law that will not do Serbia's citizens any good. These reform models inevitably lead to a growing financial and any other subordination and dependence of our economy and country on favoured foreign corporations and financial institutions, with all the consequences of debt submission. The sale of domestic enterprises, as well as the overall economic policy of the ruling coalition, has unconceived consequences seen in the army of unemployed, from 900,000 to millions, declines in production, social decomposition, an increase in poverty and general poverty. The reason for the adoption of this law is that it should create conditions for productive employment, greater professional and geographical mobility, to affirm an active employment policy, but also to establish an economically realistic and socially acceptable unemployment insurance system and to include European Union solutions, as well as the experience of those in transition. However, the bill does not provide the majority of its provisions for the faster employment of unemployed persons, but rather brings their solutions to a more unfavourable position of unemployed persons compared to valid legal solutions: introducing and removing from the record; reducing the basics, heights and lengths of receiving money; sanctions against the unemployed, who is forced to work without a labour contract, directing financial resources for the work of institutions and employment services, but not in the function of a greater and faster employment of unemployed persons and others. While the Labour Act and the Privatisation Act have left hundreds of thousands out of work, this law will bring new restrictive obligations to the unemployed. It is incomprehensible for the Socialists to reduce the number of unemployed without faster economic development, without new investments, and there is no such thing today and that is not the case. The development of production must be based on the planned management of natural, material and human resources, which Serbia has at its disposal, and by providing financial incentives for the consolidation and development of domestic enterprises and not on the sale; to ensure a higher rate of economic growth and to increase employment levels, above all, young and high-level personnel. As is the case today and as this law proposes, neither the employees nor the unemployed, who will soon be over a million. One cleanup will be done, and the question is, how can the unions support it? Has there really been dialogue between social partners, governments, trade unions and employers or have only given consent to union leaders? The SPS MPs are, as always, against the mass layoffs of workers, committed to hiring new workers and with forty amendments we will try to correct this bill, if possible. The national service must have an obligation to identify the unemployed and must refer him to job vacancies, because he cannot know where they exist, since there are no more ads or competitions, and the unemployed must be considered a self-financed student, who may be schooling himself. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other laws guarantee the principle of free choice and equal availability of a job in the employment process, and there is no need in law to list it specifically and to single it out as individual cases. In order for unemployed persons to have the right to employment, they must register and register in the services. The proof that this law is restrictive is that, in a developed world, temporary unemployment grows to a lasting, if an unemployed person waits for employment for more than three years, and here is proposed two, which needs to be changed. Article 20, which regulates compensation for unwarranted giving up employment, should be deleted because its application will benefit lawyers, not employers or unemployed persons. Also, in Article 25, approval of the means to cover the costs of reporting and transport to the unemployed who exercise the right to material security, and even before that, should be for those who do not enjoy it because they are in an even more difficult material situation. Unnecessarily, within the framework of the National Service business centres for self-employment assistance, as well as clubs for job-seeking, since it is a distraction of the unemployed, increasing and such a huge administration. If an unemployed person is sent to establish a working relationship outside the place of residence, the costs incurred must be recognised. Like earlier labour, the law provides for public works. Maybe that's good, but there was a young generation taking part in the action, while here as participants are projecting over 50 years of age, which is really unacceptable. For a member of the Management Board of the National Service, there must also be a place for representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, such as associations of businessmen and the largest employment base. Presidents and members of the Management and Supervisory Board should be appointed for four years and this should be provided for by law, not by national service acts. Like all the other laws you're proposing and these are predicted by the agency, which is not to be accepted, because its formation cannot speed up employment, except for a few people. The question is, what will the National Service do? Article 93 reduces the rights of the unemployed now that there are a large number of unemployed, and there will be more, and they will lose the most elementary rights that so far belonged to them through the Labour Market Office. They are also more unfavourable than the applicable conditions for obtaining the right to cash compensation, as well as the basis for determining the amount of cash compensation, altitude and duration, while the penalties have been increased several times. If this bill is adopted, the number of unemployed will be reduced on the labour market records, but not because of job creation and job creation, but because of the repressive measures taken from the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31979	The People's Messenger Slobodan Adzic has the word, followed by MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31980	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, at the session of the Committee on Labour, Social and Combat Affairs, as members, I voted against the draft employment law and I am taking the opportunity to inform this Assembly of the reasons. In an explanation, the legislator states that these laws create conditions for faster employment and meet the employer's needs for new jobs by shortening administrative procedures. It is also said that there will be changes in the field of unemployment insurance to establish an economically realistic and socially adequate insurance system. Carefully analysing the members of the proposed law, it can be seen that there are no significant newspapers that go on to increase status, especially the unemployed, but therefore there are a number of provisions that are restrictive, which reduce rights, both unemployed and employees in case they lose their jobs. I will not specifically specify restrictive provisions, but you can see for yourself, as well as all members who define the risks of unemployment insurance and you will find out for yourself what kind of restrictions it is. If the overall environment in our society is taken into account: the situation in the economy, the failure of the rule of law, the constant trend of the number of employees (in the past year 4.8%), then the lack of domestic and foreign investments, it can be clearly concluded that the bill in many of its provisions is not realistic and therefore will not be fully applied. So, although in some parts of it it is conceptually solidly designed in these conditions it will mostly be unaccompanied. If he was strictly implemented, he'd be doing more damage than good. That the law is unfavourable for the unemployed will take several key provisions: First, the most important member of the 93rd in the chapter "Delete From the Records" of the unemployed. This member provides that the National Employment Service may delete an unemployed person from the record if he refuses appropriate employment, which is not disputed. The position of the 4th member is the corresponding employment and employment in the same degree of professional training and occupation of the unemployed during the first three months of stay on the list of unemployed persons, which may also be acceptable in certain cases. Article 5 states that at the end of the three-month period, appropriate employment has been offered employment in the profession, taking into account acquired work experience and the situation on the labour market. I find this position unclear and gives the National Employment Service broad powers of interpretation and application. Paragraph 6 says that after nine months of staying on unemployment records, appropriate employment is each offered. This solution is unacceptable to me, for it brings the unemployed, especially the more qualified, into an unfavourable position, even humiliating when looking for a job. The application of Article 93 will have the following consequences - the number of persons on unemployment records will be formally, statistically, reduced, because it is logical that one number of persons offered inadequate employment, therefore humiliating in terms of qualifications, the adequateness of the professional arrangement, as well as the level of earnings, will be removed from the register. The question immediately arises here whether the problem will be solved. It's not really gonna happen. The state will boast that the number of unemployed persons has been reduced according to statistics. However, the number of unemployed will not be reduced, it will remain the same, and according to the trend, the number of employees falls even higher. Health insurance law in order of persons with compulsory health insurance classifications and unemployed. When determining the status of insurance undertakings with the Health Insurance Fund, he is obliged to attach a certificate to the National Employment Service that he is on unemployment records. Dake, the moment the employment department gets off the record, in the process of applying Article 93. The bill, and first of all, puts the 6th unemployed person out of health insurance. Not at that very moment, but he has to extend his health insurance status. Since there won't be any such, we can imagine the consequences of applying this law. The second remark concerns Article 4(1), which defines an unemployed person. This article lowers the age of 18, which existed under the old law to 15 years. So underage people who don't attend school will be required under this law to apply to the unemployment records to have health insurance. This creates the possibility of applying Article 93 to them, and the consequences of the application of that article are the same as to adults. I believe that the provision that contains the position to lower the age of an unemployed person to 15 years of age, in this law, is inhuman and needs to be changed. My third remark concerns the position of the National Employment Service towards the Serbian government. In this law, the National Employment Service is designed to perform two functions; one is a classical function of public service, in this case the Ministry of Labour and Employment, and on the other, will serve as an insurance fund for unemployment. Article 62. The bill stipulates that the National Service will be managed by a board of 15 members, of which the Serbian government will freely determine nine and thus manage the fund indirectly, not only the employment service. Such a solution has made it impossible for a decisive word in the management of funds to have those who allocate those funds, which are employees. Article 68(2) The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to be managed by social security funds by those who allocate those funds to the fund. In January, the chairmanship of the Independent Union in the appeal, which referred to MPs, points out that the text of the law does not provide for faster employment, but rather leads to a series of solutions leading to an unfavourable position of unemployed persons in relation to valid legal solutions: taking them off the record, or deleting them from the unemployment records; reducing the basis for compensation, as well as the heights and lengths of remuneration; sanctions against the unemployed who, due to the social threat, are forced to work without a labour contract; directing financial resources for the work of institutions and employment services, etc. For all the reasons mentioned in the previous presentation, I believe that this law should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure and significantly repaired, regardless of what was once withdrawn, with a previously established social dialogue with those to which this law primarily applies. Otherwise, the DSS parliamentary group will not support this law, either in principle or in general, and that is why we have not submitted amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31981	The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger of the Prophet Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31982	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister and Associates at the Ministry, after a long wait and a long time, the National Assembly finally found a proposal for a law on employment. The army of the unemployed in the Republic of Serbia long and eager to expect the law, long and eager to see the law passed and expected much of it. Unfortunately for them, I have to inform them not to expect much when this law is passed, because there will be no large number of employment in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, there will be a number of people who will be out of work, people who will move to the market or as we all like to say, to the Employment Office. The Serbian Unity Party, as has been said, will not and cannot support the draft employment law, which is ahead of us. We tried with 30 amendments to fix the proposed text of the law. Unfortunately, only three or four amendments have been adopted, but I cannot help but point out from this place that it is an interesting thing for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministry, to adopt some amendments that are in the same text as the Amendments of the Party of Serbian Unity, to start with a capital letter, a score, points, etc. These are amendments given by some other MPs, from some other parliamentary groups, and if we look at when they are handed over we can reason that these people have prescribed amendments to the Serbian Unity Party, and I have reliable information that they are from the government of the Republic of Serbia, or from the Ministry of Labour and Employment, written amendments to certain members of the law, and signed by some MPs. But reality is what it is and we have to move on. I am sorry that no one has ever touched a topic that is very interesting and should take a good part of the ministry's interest in work and employment, which is the planning of personnel in the Republic of Serbia. We at this point, unfortunately, and this situation is back a few years ago, we don't have the planning of personnel -- that we know what it takes for the Republic of Serbia for the next five, ten or 15 years, which are profiles of occupation; what schools and colleges are supposed to prepare for us people who won't leave school and college and move to the labour market, but after a very short period, they'll find employment in a company or state institution, and that they can certainly expect to get a job. So, since we don't have a national personnel planning program... And let me remind you, since I've been in this area for many years while I've been working at the cable factory, that sometimes any kind of planning of personnel of all economic entities in the Republic of Serbia, so as to know as much as possible what it takes for the Republic of Serbia to do for one next, shorter or longer, period of time. I think the Ministry of Labour and Employment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia must give employment a single priority in the coming period, because it is the only way we will be able to educate people for work and thus educate people, not the labour market, or the Employment Office. Then we wouldn't need a member of 93 who has been persuaded here, that someone who can't get a job in his profession, that after 3, 6, or 9 months he has to accept every job he's offered, so it turns out that parents and those who have been trained for a particular profession spent their parenting money and their time schooling for some occupation, in which, unfortunately, they will never be able to work or be able to work after a long period of time on other jobs, and I don't think that's the purpose of this law. So, again, I'm undermining, I don't think we can get to real employment without the right personnel planning program. I have some data, responsible people from the Ministry certainly know that from year to year the number of unemployed people is increasing and that's the first time they've asked for employment. Once upon a time, we had such a situation that people waiting for work could safely say when they could expect to get to work. They were some of the so-called. The rank-lists that were made in one way or another. Yet people in certain occupations knew, in some cities, when they could expect work to come. Today, unfortunately, regardless of the obligation to seek employment of those persons who are registered, it often happens that a man comes, starts a working relationship formally, and only after applying to the labour market, or sent by an employer to apply, to fill out so-called. Models E1, E2, M1 old, M1 new, etc. So, mostly young people looking for employment for the first time, today they can't say for sure that they promise themselves and someone else that they'll get to work, for a year or two, or five, to know, because they're following those ranking lists, when they're going to get to work. I won't talk much about Article 91 and Article 93, some amendments from the Serbian Unity Party are adopted there, it's a lot of talk, we'll talk about it when there's a debate in particular, not to take up time, and I think I'm running out of time, so I don't want the chairman to warn me. I'd just end up with the next finding, which is that we're all talking about protecting the unemployed. Which we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, when I think unemployed persons and persons who are left out of work, so by the circumstances, they're entering a circle of unemployed persons, they don't have almost any protection today. From whom we will use this law and how to protect them, when I say that employers, regardless of whether they are in state or private companies, can hire whoever they want, and you know it best from the ministry, how they do it today in practice in Serbia. No matter what political option was in power, it mostly employs people who suit them, from their political options, not those people who really deserve to be in a working relationship. Therefore, for these and many other reasons that will be discussed, at least when it comes to the MPs' Club of the Serbian Unity, we of the SJN parliamentary club can support such a bill of employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31983	This spent time at the disposal of the Serb Unity Party parliamentary group, eight minutes, so the next registered speaker from the parliamentary group does not have time to deploy. This concludes our work in the morning... Is five minutes enough for you? Please, the People's MP, Verica Radeta, thinks that five minutes is enough within the time available to her MP group and has a word. After that, the Messenger of the people Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31984	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very bad bill, so bad that even amendments can't be arranged. Although the minister read in his opening reading that this bill follows modern trends in the field of employment and creates conditions for greater and faster employment, I would say - ministers, have not written you well, there are neither modern trends here nor there are conditions for greater nor for less, nor for employment at all, there are only conditions here that every day more and more people who have already received cancellations, thanks to the disastrous DOS policy, find themselves without any state protection. I'd like you, Minister, to tell me who you predicted such a law for, whether for your fellow IMT colleagues yesterday, whose union rights you fought for until you became a minister, and when you became a minister, they got a large number of cancellations, and the IMT was turned into a coal warehouse, which is also sold through the union; or maybe this is meant for workers of the Zemunian Dragon, who no longer have anything to do because the government has again imported some of the bad moves that they say are wider than the average field in Serbia. Perhaps this is also for the workers of "Grumec" who at the time of the poor regime were "a giant of chemical production" in Serbia, and today they received only two times 6,000 dinars there during this year. And now they're being visited as some rich married man: you send them some potential buyers every day, but you wait for them to be reduced to as little as possible, and then about 1,000 workers will be fired, but what do they care about, public works are waiting for them. As technology engineers care, they'll be able to take a drill to dig asphalt, which gives a shit about what's 50 years old, who spent his life and broke his health in his work so far, you promise public works for special categories. I won't comment on the members individually because we from the Serbian Radical Party have invested quite a number of amendments, but I will mention at least some characteristic ones. But in Article 1, you are predicting the establishment of a employment agency -- where you would have a law without an agency, that would not be imagined by this government; you are predicting the National Employment Service, I have no negative objections there. Whether it's called the Labour Market Office or the Employment Fund, it's important that it enables work, it's important to hire. I'll even commend you. I guess this is the first law and first move of the government where there's something national, with a national sign, even if it's the National Employment Service. I'll mention as a character of Article 23, paragraph 2, where you say, "The national service may, if there is a suspicion of health care, direct an unemployed person to a health test." It's a miracle. It's a miracle. An officer on the counter will assess whether the one who came looking for a job is healthy or not. Well, the ministers had an obligation to go to the doctor's office, so it wasn't done... They didn't pass, I didn't have any information, thank you. The next member I'd like to mention in this short time are actually members 23, 31, 33, 51, 55, I don't have time for all individually. Every one is worse than the worst, each one is as disastrous as this whole law has no positive solution, Minister, for the unemployed, even less for the army, for those who strike daily. It's only a matter of days before he joins those who are already unemployed. Just one remark, Mr. Minister, I noticed, while my colleagues were saying that you laughed rather cynically, and it's not nice to do this to the MPs, you should especially be aware that your ministry has led to tragic consequences and there's nothing funny about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31985	This concludes work for the morning part of the session. Before I set a break, one notice: the 53rd session of the Justice and Management Committee will be held on 2 July 2003 at 14.45 p.m., in the downstairs hall, and we are finishing our work in the afternoon. We continue at 15.00 hours, with debate in principle, the first registered speaker is MP Miomir Ilic, followed by MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31986	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please determine if we have a quorum to work with. I find that we have a quorum and continue the principle debate according to the application for word. The word has been made by MP Miomir Ilic, the next to be declared by the People's MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31987	The honourable MPs, although the minister is gone, do not matter in this case, he is not interested in such a legal project. This legislative proposal, as explained by the proposer, believes that conditions will be created for faster employment and meeting employers' needs for new employment, as well as for reducing and simplifying administrative procedures for new employment obligations. Is that so, the numerous amendments to the Socialist Party and other opposition parties that clearly show that the legal solution does not provide it. To repeat this part about this, this opening part, it says in the explanation, it is not important, but related to the general principle of attitude, which is that a number of amendments by the Socialist Party and other opposition parties say that this legislative proposal, although it has not long been in the procedure, has many shortcomings and does not address the issue of jobless persons. For this reason, the Socialist Party's position is not to vote for such a legal proposal, but to propose that this law be withdrawn. In my brief presentation, I will refer to some of the most significant remarks I would point to regarding the proposal. Instead of the current Employment Service, the National Employment Service, which is the holder of employment, is formed. In Article 2. The bill of the numbered employment jobs lacks one that is the most important. Minister, the most important job in the basic provisions of the law is missing in the eight points listed in Article 2. - has no basic job to do with this service, which is the unemployment records. It can't even stand in basic provisions for one practical reason. A million unemployed people can stand with a long-term transfer from Sudotica to the Macedonian border, along or across the line from Drina to Timok. It's about a million people, but if it goes on like this, there's going to be one diagonal in the case of the northeast - southwest. So, from the Romanian border to Montenegro. Registrations in the field of employment particularly prescribed by law, sublaws, general acts of the National Service, introduce order in legal traffic relating to employment because they are the basis for the conduct of the relevant authorities and for the exercise of the rights of the unemployed and other persons. Hence, it is necessary to include in the basic provisions of the law the jobs of unemployed persons' records. Realising the rights of unemployed persons, as an integral and inseparable part of the definition of "send" and "employment" must be contained in the basic provisions of the law, because an unemployed person acquires certain rights on the day of registration on the record that takes place until the end of the working century. The draft law provides for the government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry for Labour and Employment Affairs, to adopt a employment programme, on a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Employment. I think the proposal should come from the National Employment Service. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has the role to play as the authority of the executive authority, to take care of the overall relationship in the field of labour and employment, i.e. the implementation of a policy established by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On a daily basis, the national service is more in contact with and in the exercise of its functions and powers than the number of persons, employers and unemployed persons, and is available to it with a higher number of data needed to form the basis for the creation of the programme and the measure of active employment policy. In addition, the line-terroral organisation of the National Service includes both personnel equipment and training, which is a presumption of a quality and qualified approach in the design of the programme. It is indisputable that the creation of the programme requires guidance from the government, wishes and suggestions, requests and needs of other ministries, associations and associations of employers and businesses, as well as, normally, the position and opinion of the Social and Economic Council and the Ministry. From that point of view, it seems more realistic for the National Service to be the bearer of the proposal for the adoption of the programme and the measure of active employment policy. The Ministry of Labour and Employment would, among other things, exercise inspection and supervision of labour law and enforcement by the employer and the National Service, implement a spending programme for individual programmes and programmes in general on the one hand, and, on the other hand, meet the conditions for the implementation of the programme, whether the programmes are implemented by the Agency or by the agencies. As far as the "Employers of Employment" chapter is concerned, where it is important to form an agency, I can say that the law regulates relations so that the National Service as a public service on behalf of the State performs employment activities based on and in accordance with the law. However, the Institute of the Agency is a logically compatible market functioning institution in general, and in the labour market created as a competitive entity to the National Service, but as an entity that complements or fills the space that exists or can be created in the pursuit of employment operations by the National Service. With regard to foreign employment, the Agency shall carry out these tasks independently but not directly and directly with the employer in foreign countries but with the participation of the National Service. The main motive for the proposed changes is that the agency, whether a government or an agency established by other entities, cannot freely intervene in the employment of unemployed persons abroad. The starting point for this attitude is that human resources are state resources. States and societies are essentially non-renewable and that the state should and must have an insight and impact on the demographic movements of the population, on the working continuity of the population, especially when it comes to labour outflows and especially when it comes to the professional Corps of the labour continuity of the population. This certainly does not mean limiting labour mobility towards all markets in the world but involves the influence of the state and its role in the movement of the workforce for which it is interested and on the other hand it would make it impossible to mix, shrewdness, speculation, trafficking in white slaves and the like. And finally, what's most important is "public works." The provisions on public works, which means that there should be organisation, funding, employment on them, should be an integral part of other regulations, laws and sublegal acts, but in no case shall the law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment. The complex of issues about public works has a broader and greater importance than the matter of employment or at least it is more complex. That's why this matter needs to be regulated by other regulations. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that, if this matter is not regulated by other regulations, the proposed solutions remain, that there is the possibility of volunteering - that, at the level of local self-government as an interest in public works, the need for certain jobs in the areas of utility, land arrangements, the cleaning of deposits, i.e. commercial and non-commercial transactions which are otherwise carried out by public and other specialised enterprises. In the end, I have to tell you about the public works, that in the municipality of Pogorec they will not be there, because on Sunday, the SPS-JUL parliamentary group won two mandates, and therefore an absolute majority of them, so that unemployed engineers and doctors will not be engaged in public works, because the power in Pozarevec is holding the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31988	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragisa Djokovic, the next one is Bratislava Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31989	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister and the accompanying suite, when you do some work, you usually count on what you get. I wonder when we're passing this law and this law, what do we get?- I'm sorry. I don't think we're individually wondering what Serbia is getting and what the citizens and people of this country are getting? For me and the Democratic Party of Serbia, it is not clear and it is not clear what will be achieved by this law, such a concept, where, for example, you offer individuals the right job and the right job after nine months is every job. Unless he accepts it, if he refuses the offered job, which is every job, will be deleted from the unemployment records. In this way, by the provisions of this Bill on Employment and Protection in the event of unemployment, we will get a reduction in the number of unemployed but just fictitious, because people in this way, by restrictive provisions, will be deleted from the unemployment records and in fact the number will not increase. Let me just remind you of the fact that since 2000, it means two and a half years from now this new government, the number of employees, unfortunately, has been dropping and the number of people who are really busy and have no job is increasing! That is what is warning and what is not in our favor. Even now, the data on two employees versus one unemployed is even more drastic, so you don't even have a full amount of two employees versus one unemployed. When you're passing some law and some program you're doing, you need to be aware of the environment in which such a law is being implemented. Is this minister, this ministry and this government, whether they created an environment where we will think about employment, about surplus employees, not unemployed. Unfortunately, for these two years with all the reforms and privatisation procedures, and the rest, we still don't have, i.e. We don't see employment, and we don't see, which we would say, light at the end of the tunnel, that there will be this employment. Thus, this employment will not be achieved through public works either. Will it be again like during the late Joseph Broz, when they were colchos, then working together, or will we have youth work again, youth brigades. Here, Mr. Panajotić remembers those times: it was nice, to him it's funny, so we'll re-engage "Goran", so our "Gorans" are going to hum naked, etc. And it will be our public works. You know what, the public works syntagma was an iconic one of the previous regimes that told it during sanctions that public works would employ a whole society, that it would contribute, etc. With that contribution, with that story, that predecessor who talked about it has not been celebrated and neither will we now, I say on purpose who are now talking about public works and making public works laws, we will not achieve much. Believe me, we won't! We can tell the people a story but you and such public works will not help us improve and will not contribute to full employment. Then, you have such restrictive provisions we can caricate, say, that a man can't go anywhere, that he has to be tied up in the house to get a job, and then prove he's actively looking for a job. Please, prove active job search! Active employment policy?- I'm sorry. Well, I guess she's been active so far, not passive; but maybe we have a problem, so we can't possibly replace the director of the Republic Labour Market Office, so it's not clear whether a man buys private firms, whether he works at Dragan Tomic's SIMP or if the SIM market is separated, whether he's still the director, whether he resigned, so the Management Board didn't resolve it, etc.! That's why we're going to form the National Employment Service. I don't know why we shouldn't be agencies, because it's very fashionable and very popular to be agencies. So let's also have a national employment agency and private employment agencies that can form legal and physical persons. And why not the employment agency? Because when they can have escort agencies in this country, so can the employment agency. But I don't think, in this way, with such an organisation of the Republic Labour Market Office and such a policy so far, it's not going to get far. Which we, as a government or as a Parliament, or as a Government and others, cannot be cleared up with such is our fault and our weakness, but let's not hope that we will just have simple paperwork, change on paper, etc. to contribute to that. We need to make it clear and loud that the Republic Labour Market Office has not been working well and that someone should be able to handle the consequences. Let's just change that, and if it can be done in any way, to get that employment started, although I honestly don't believe it either -- I'm telling you that too many things here that are purely restrictive and restrictive are going to be. Unfortunately, I say once again, we will not contribute much to the quality of this people's lives, and with this, believe me, Serbia will not be on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31990	The word has a folk MP, Bratislava Đuric, the next is Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31991	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, when we talk about the draft law that is on the agenda today and whether it is good or bad, we need to make a parallel with the law that is now in force, with a law that regulates that area, or whether it has been regulated by the area in the previous period, and see how much he has arranged that area and whether it should have been changed. It is necessary to see how much this law, which has so far been in force, has arranged that area and whether or not it should have been changed. Of course it was supposed to be changed and of course we're going to change it!- I'm sorry. This bill of law is a perfectly good and perfectly decent basis that needs to be arranged in this area. The current state of employment, first of all, in the records of those persons who are being led on employment bureaus, is very strange and many people are reading various numbers. They're all possible and impossible. Many of them before me have also spoken about the fact that about 880-900 thousand citizens who are reportedly unemployed are on the employment bureaus, registered as unemployed. Several examples that have been done over the past year or two have shown a completely different condition. They've shown that only two-thirds or one-half of that number are considered really unemployed, really those who want to work, really those who want to work. Others used the possibility of a previous law so that they could achieve certain benefits without having any responsibility for looking for a job. Some of my colleagues in previous shows have talked about the fact that this new law deprives the unemployed of their rights acquired. What about the commitments? What's an unemployed person's obligation, what's his only priority? Well, to find a job, to find a job, to look for it personally and to be sought by the agency on his behalf. So he's got nothing more to do than get a job. Here it was said that it was necessary to regulate the Employment Act so that, in some ways, people who had no job and had no intention of looking for it, that they had some benefits, that they could use it suddenly and simply live out of work. That's not possible. That's not possible in any normal society. That's why I think the bill is quite correct. Of course there's room for repairs in certain members. Accordingly, I have submitted a number of amendments on behalf of the Labour Party of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted the largest number of these amendments. I believe that if this law is fully applied, there are great opportunities and great chances that this area, if not completely, and it is arranged in a much better way than it has been so far. In the end, the critics of this law can only be those who are reluctant to put ahead of work, only those who want to live unhappily and to unhappily earn a profit, and that is not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31992	The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Zivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31993	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am terribly disappointed with what seriousness you are discussing about those who are difficult to put an end to by having no money or work. You have a salary today that you haven't earned, you have journals that you haven't earned, you drive in an official car, you have all the privileges and you and your family, and that's a sign that you radicalize the social order that you attack -- that's communism. You don't know how workers live today. Many are on the verge of life's existence unable to provide themselves and the family with the basics, which is food and clothing. Many people smuggle on buses, trolley buses and trams because they don't have the money to pay. Today, half of Serbia's citizens live at the beginning. I don't know if you know what a start means. It's enrollment in debt books, so when they collect money they can pay the debt. There's misery and poverty everywhere. We are a proud people, we will not admit that many today are on the verge of misery, but it is not far a day when they will have to admit it, and in the streets of this beautiful city there are more and more of those with their hands stretched out and their heads bowed. I volunteered to discuss this draft law on employment and unemployment insurance, because I've been in the economy for 20 years, and it's in the chemical industry that hit first with the Privatisation Act, and also because of the difficult working conditions and because of the large number of people with disabilities and under the influence of such a law. Your pre-election promises are, in fact, the product of today being a million unemployed walk in Serbia. We Serbian radicals then warned Serbian citizens about what would happen to them if the dosmania came to power, that it would be the greatest execution for them, because even then we pointed out that the dosslers were the greatest undertakers of the destruction of the economy and economy in Serbia. The $6.5 billion donations you promised in the pre-election campaign to revitalize and launch the economy and bring back workers from temporary vacations is a mere formality and a lie. You didn't get the donations or you got them, and you shared them between you, and you didn't say a word about the return of workers to work or words, because you sold them factories, and from the time you came to power, because of the failure of the plant, many of them have failed. You're saying this is a reform law that contains a trend in improving the victims rather than the unemployed. I ask you where to hire them when no business branch - capacity works! The private sector only employs on black and in limited numbers. You said this law was based on the highest standards regulated in this field of labour employment contained in the conventions. What you wrote, it's nice to hear and read and it's just a nice letter on paper, and it doesn't have any effect on improving the living standard of workers in Serbia. And you all point out that with the aim of harmonising and bringing closer to European labour standards and ways of employment policy that are contained in the Treaties on the European Union. And it is once again a cruel law that you want to get close to Europe and to European standards. What is present today in Serbia: strikes, where it is allegedly done; selling factories on suspicious criteria; firing workers; inflation; increasing prices - electricity, increasing these days and the price of bread; suspending or strikeing peasants due to low ransom prices, because their production has been affected by elemental disasters which neither you, nor the government nor the agriculture ministry has discussed. The end of time is coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31994	The word of the messenger of the people is Zivanko Radovanchev; after him is the messenger of the people, Peter the Hungarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31995	The respected presidency, ministers, fellow MPs, has been one of the most successful institutions in Serbia's social system for years. It was a developing system, whose best results were expected in 2002 and 2003. However, its development was interrupted by the DOS coming to power. In fact, there is nothing left of it but documents on the ten-year success and recognition of all relevant people, businessmen, institutions, about the great contribution of the employment system to maintaining the stability of the economy, entrepreneurship and social peace in the Republic, in one of the most difficult periods in its history. The system has been stopped by the coming DOS replacing all management or almost all, otherwise checked experts with enviable internships and successes in the field of employment. People are placed in their seats according to the DOS criteria. In order to demonstrate success in solving employment problems, new authorities have joined the reform of the employment system, in particular by adopting a new Employment Act. The legislator points out that the law is based on the highest international labour standards contained in the IOR Conventions and Recommendations. This points out, but forgets that the previous Law was based on the same conventions and that the relevant standards contained in the employment laws of European countries were incorporated. They forgot, because they still deny that anything is good in the previous system and that history in all areas, as well as in the area of employment, starts with DOS. In this effort, they overly highlight their loyalty to democracy and world standards, so that it often seems even tasteless and ridiculous. For example, in Article 9, the reference to "the principles of impartiality"; in Article 10. "the principles of freeness"; then, in Article 30."Advise the employer and the person seeking employment on the law and other acts"; in Article 8. "the principles of free choice of profession, equal availability and behaviour in employment", etc. Partitional acuity and an incomprehensible desire to degrade everything from the previous time, before DOS, leads to the fact that it does not run away from the big statements, which can already be denied - and what will only be in a year or two?- I'm sorry. So speaking of the reasons for the adoption of the new law, they say: "The transition of society and economy and the acceptance of the modern principles of civil society, democracy and the market economy, as well as the need to create a new, modern legal basis to encourage freely selected productive employment, increase of professional but geographical mobility in the labour market, affirmation of active employment policy measures and the activation of jobseekers, as well as the establishment of an economically realistic and socially adequate unemployment insurance system conditioned the adoption of this law." This means that until the arrival of the DOS, Serbia was not in social and economic transition, that it did not accept the principles of civil society, democracy and market economy. We did not need to pass a new law in order to create a basis for encouraging freely selected productive employment, as the previous Law has well established it. The then labour market on the plan has recorded very high results in the past decade. It was only necessary to review ten-year labour market reports. The law should have been passed, officials say, in order to affirm the active employment policy measures and activate the jobseeker. For the affirmation of the active employment policy, it was not necessary to pass a new law, because the old one handled it well, and the labour market with its services had great results in solving the so-called so-called ". Technological surpluses, new employment, self-employment, preparation of employment through educational processes for new technologies, new jobs, jobs and new jobs. Looks like the law was supposed to be passed for something that really didn't exist, to activate a jobseeker. This way, the promoters say, has changed the role of an unemployed person, from passive to active, a series of rights and obligations that should encourage the unemployed to seek work. It takes a lot of help for the unemployed to find a job where the unemployed will gain knowledge, skills and job-seeking skills. Something went wrong after all. It was ignored that there were about 40% of unskilled workers on the unemployment records with or without primary school and about 25% of qualified workers with very limited knowledge and preparation for basic occupation. There's about 20% of high school students, so-called. The 4th degree of expertise, which is due to the failure in education reform, is also a lack of knowledge and expertise. So, according to this, the law will be practically applied to over 10% of the unemployed, even much less, because it will be used mainly by unemployed VI and VII of the degree of expertise, mainly from surplus professions. For the vast number of unemployed, this member of the law will be discriminatory, as it will threaten the risk of deleting from the record. Why? Because he is an unemployed qualified worker with perhaps modest knowledge and willingness to break the thresholds of various businesses looking for a job, even with the knowledge that he was trained in a job search club for expensive taxpayers for expensive money, however, incapacitated for such a thing or because he did not provide written evidence to the National Service for Active Job Search. Most of them will be deleted from the unemployment records, as over a period of six months, three times the National Service officials will not find them at a specific address in the time established by agreement or agreement. When it comes to this little is to say that this article 93 is incorrect and that it is in the function of erasing the unemployed from the record, and thus collecting points from the government and the ministry for reducing the number of persons from the unemployment records. This member could only suggest someone from the cabinet, someone who did not know the poverty that the labor force faced or faced, and a magical way of getting unemployed people to survive with family and minimum funds. Does the unemployed worker have the right to request that he be at home every day at a certain time and expect a possible call from the National Service? Or, for example, what is a democratic principle and a European standard that erases the unemployed from the record, because it has performed work without a completed contract of work or a contract of temporary and occasional jobs. Gentlemen, the hungry mouth of the family does not lead to thinking and the consequences of the one to whom these consequences might apply. There are other illogicalities in this law. Thus, for example, the proposer says that the law is based on the principle of free choice of candidates by employers, but also provides for adequate sanctions in this respect, so the law in Article 20 says that, the employer who does not intend to conclude a contract of work or without justifiable reasons to give up the conclusion of a labour contract and his behaviour with the person seeking employment, is responsible for the damage caused, etc. We are wondering who will decide, or determine that the employer negotiated without the intention of concluding a work contract or how it will prove that he gave up employment without justifiable reasons. The same applies to the person seeking employment. Who will be able to determine whether that person negotiated with the employer without the intention to conclude the contract or who will assess whether the reasons behind the termination of the contract are justified. There are many such illogicalities in the proposed law. He occasionally reminds of a police law, where investigations, controls, checks, penalties, a whole range of sanctions are more discussed, and the proposer says that this law simplifies administrative procedures and reduces the administrative apparatus. If so, who will then carry out all these new controls, checks, investigations etc. The proposed law is directed, as we can see, that a small part of the funds is directed towards an active employment policy. It is seen from several members, and above all from Article 31 where the Government, through the Ministry, transfers most of the work to autonomy and local self-government. How good is that, you'll see success in the active employment policy? And creating conditions for productive employment will now depend solely on the economic and economic development of certain regions, their equipment, expertise and quality of local services. In fact, it seems that the purpose of creating republican, regional and local employment councils is to politicise this social area. Through these institutions, party powers will become even more powerful, will fully control life and work in the region, and will also use not very small means of employment for other purposes. There are many objections to this law, which the debate has shown so far. I would suggest that the law be withdrawn from the procedure based on all of this, and based on one summer review and a critical review of the proposed law. Finally, I would like to tell Serbian citizens, especially the unemployed, that the adoption of this law will not increase their chances of employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our country has been in transition for two and a half years. Transition is a transition from socialist to capitalist model of economic relations, and as it has been in other countries, so is our extremely painful transition period; of course, given our delay in entering the transition, it will not be easy, we are aware of it and we do not want to collect cheap political points on this. The government proposed in the previous period, and the Republic Assembly voted for a whole series of laws aimed at moving us in this process to a capitalist model on the one hand, and on the other hand to encourage investment activity as much as possible. In order to make this period as short as possible for a large number of citizens, it was necessary to create a certain social consensus on the model and speed of change. Such an approach was made by countries that passed successfully or still pass through transition. We're afraid this isn't done. First of all, the basic act of discontinuity with the previous system - the constitution has not yet been brought in, and according to the government's announcements, it will only happen in the fourth year of this government despite the promises made in the December 2000 election campaign. We don't have time to lose, so the team is more surprised by this indolence of the ruling majority and its putting the interests of survival in power above the interests of the state and the citizens. In this context, the inadmissible delay in the programme of active employment policy and inactivity of the Ministry of Labour and Government should be observed. I cannot be impressed that the government's primary goal is to privatise Serbia's companies at all costs, as soon as possible, without having to worry about what will happen to the army of unemployed who necessarily appear as a negative effect, with everything remaining in the declarative definition, without the essential incentive of economic activity and the creation of new jobs. In order for investment activity to spread as a necessary precondition for economic growth, some previous conditions should be met, among which legal certainty is certainly the most important, the eradication of corruption, full and non-selective dealings with organised crime, one word requires a rule of law in which rules are known in advance and no one is excluded from the law. The basic institutions of the market economy, such as private property and contract, need to be respected. The law itself is technically poorly done because it penetrates part of constitutional matter, in principle of impartiality, free choice of profession, equal access to employment, which was not necessary. The scope of public works certainly deserves a special law, not the accidental mention of certain areas in which they can be carried out, as well as who will organise and do them. Article 93 provides that after nine months on unemployment records, any occupation offered to the unemployed is to be accepted or deleted from the records. This is for unemployed people's unacceptable attitude, because it's rare for someone to get a job in their profession after nine months of staying on unemployment records. I have with me, by the way, the magazine Jobs, which publishes the Republic Labour Market Office, comes out once a week and is advertised by all the businesses in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this issue, about 500 ads came out under this title; however, for enterprises that are not budgetary institutions or budgetary institutions, they are not financed from the budget, a total of 175 jobs for all Serbia, for millions of unemployed. How can we expect people to find a job in their profession within nine months in such conditions? These 175, by the way, require 30 construction workers, or builders. You can't have someone who's graduated from college to be a builder, because a man isn't dressed for something like that. The lack of legal regulation of self-employment subsidies, left to the ministry, or the Minister at will, is noticeable. This leaves this potentially most dynamic way of hiring to the minister's mercy and mercy, rather than being regulated by law, in order to avoid possible abuses. The funds allocated by employers and employees puts the government under its control, predicting the sub-half-representation of employers and employees. Finally, only the minister, who will decide on whom and under what conditions self-employment funds will be granted, will control the most. The Supervisory Board also chooses the Government. That's why this cycle of intransparency is closed. The social dialogue over this law, although there was plenty of time, is also lagging behind. The Ministry of Labour of this Law wants, above all, to create a vision of higher employment that is not real, starting with the assumption that they are unemployed in most unemployed and speculators who are on unemployment records because they want to have health insurance, without real intention of finding a job in their profession. Of course this assumption is wrong, that the real reality is almost a million unemployed and about 600,000 extra employees. It's too much of a challenge for any authority. Where's the way out of all this? It should be sought in creating conditions for serious foreign investment, while encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises to create new jobs, as well as encouraging self-employment through lending or grants. So we need to create conditions and incentives for the development of an entrepreneurial spirit. That's when we get back to the beginning of this story. Only as stable a democratic society can meet these unquestionably great challenges. The path to it is known: the exchange of power and strengthening of the institutions of the rule of law. We don't have another time, and we need to step on it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31997	The word has been given by MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am always fascinated when Minister Dragan Milovanovic, on behalf of the government, is to represent a single law, above all I consider Minister Dragan Milovanovic to be one complex person, a triple personality. With him, there's always a conflict of interest. First of all, he's a union man, for years he's been a union leader. He has certain interests in this regard, but is also the president of the Labour Party. However, the party has never participated in the elections and has no voting body, but has MPs in the National Assembly. That's why the minister has the need to go with his behavior to the voters. But the most important thing in all of this is that third person, which is the minister's personality, because he has, as a minister, certain benefits and apparently that function lies best for him. I would even resent my distinguished colleague, Verice Radetti, who just said that the minister with a mockery listens to the MPs. Dear Mrs. Radeta became an MP three months ago in this term, so she doesn't know that the minister is fighting with opposition MPs as needed, so I am grateful to the minister for his behaviour today. I was surprised that the street of King Milan or Serbian rulers today became a walking zone. If the National Assembly adopts the proposed law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment, the whole of Serbia will become one big pedestrian zone. Workers who protest, part of the unemployed, citizens who work, but who do not receive regular salaries or earn enough money for existence, will surely go out into the streets and turn the whole of Serbia into a large pedestrian zone. The minister says social partners, they're relevant unions, support the law. Then the question arises why the independent union is strikein'. The government has been constantly demanding that the draft laws be adopted according to an emergency procedure. If, unfortunately, the proposed laws on rail and energy had entered the assembly procedure after such a law, 7,000 more people would have lost their jobs, and already 40% of the citizens who are to work cannot exercise their labour rights. Is the proposed law good if there are 114 amendments? The president of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs stressed that he accepted the amendments, regardless of whether they were submitted by the opposition or by the position and boasted of it, thus showing that there has always been a selection. Given the amendments you have submitted, you will see that only one amendment of the opposition has been accepted. The main amendments were accepted by Mr. Bratislava Đuric, who is vice-president of the prime minister's party, so if by any chance another opposition MP is there, then it is allegedly as an amendment to the opposition, which is not true. The minister potentials "novel" in the proposed law, which is employment agencies. That's why I'm publicly asking the Minister - whether the minister has already registered as his own to such an agency or simply prepared papers for such an agency; that after this law he can make a selection, who can get a job and who can't! The new employment law should create conditions for geographical mobility, for job migration. Obviously, there are 70,000 people living in Serbia from Montenegro alone, and in Crno Trava there are less than 2,700 people, precisely because of this government's behaviour, so apparently the south of Serbia will not be satisfied with such a law, be sure. The biggest remark on my part regarding this bill is the loss of the right to health insurance and the reduction of the rights of consumers of financial compensation on the labour market. A large number of citizens will be left without health insurance, and I will give you just a few examples: In the case of hip surgery, the installation of an artificial hook and the cheapest is 90,000 dinars, and the average amount is 150,000 dinars. Heart surgery is about 5,000 to 6,000 marks. And who's gonna pay for that? I believe the minister doesn't know either. The fees paid by workers who are unemployed due to bankruptcy or as a technological surplus under this bill will be less and will be reduced. What about the Health Factory? Of the 2,050 workers, 1,000 workers lost their jobs, although under contract for three years no one should lose their jobs. The minister should answer that question. The law obliges you that citizens are actively seeking a job! It's like they've been sitting around with their hands broken so far, like the government is providing them with a lot of compensation for the unemployment they can live on. The workers are looking for a steady job, but there's no job! Large businesses have been destroyed, but what surprises me is that DOS is destroying a small economy, i.e. the backbone of the Serbian economy, "small entrepreneurs". Instead of hiring "little entrepreneurs" as owners unemployed, they are forced to fire their employees because of these big laws. If that's the idea of government, then you're making good progress in achieving these ideas. At the very end, the unemployed are offered a proper job under this law, in the first three months the job they were educated for, and in the next six months each in the profession, and after nine months everyone offered. I graduated from medical school, if I can't work as a doctor in my profession, and I didn't finish medical school, but in high school, it's a question that you should answer, but because of the lower-value complex that the minister has, which is that he was born in 1955, and that he's also a student today; two and a half years ago when he was supposed to be a minister, he was told to finish his studies, three months ago when he was re-established as a minister, and I was a generation in 1965, 13 years ago I graduated from medical school, and now he's trying to get all intellectuals down to do jobs that he might have to do. I ask him, when he's no longer a minister in the current government in a few months, what's he gonna do as a student? That's the question he needs to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u31999	The word is by MP Rada Bajic, followed by MP Sladjan Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32000	Dear Presidency, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today we have before us a draft law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment, and it is not unusual for such a law to be passed, but only if we look at the title. And it is not unusual that it is needed in some optimal conditions when the economy is working, meaning, in optimal conditions of unemployment, or the percentage of unemployment that monitors every economy. It's like we're living under a glass bell and we don't know what's going on around us, and you're all living in a working environment, surrounded by people who don't have a job, wander around the streets, or do practically work, and don't take months and months of pay. A good law can't even be done when it's based on a set of two laws that have really done enormous damage to this country and the working class, which is the Law on Labour and the Law on Privatization. Just remind yourself of a member of the 101st law where he says when an employer can fire a worker. It can be when he wants it and when he wants it: if he does not fulfil his work obligation; or if he does not have the ability and knowledge, he can assess it by free will when he has no ability and knowledge or if he has broken his working discipline, it is enough that if someone does not come along, he does not tell him - good day and violates his work discipline - he is inadequately dressed in the company, otherwise, now it has become a fashion to prescribe ways of conduct in the company, and he gets fired. And there's privatisation. Privateized everything that could be privatised to devastation, and thousands, tens and hundreds of thousands of workers lost their jobs, and worst of all, were jobless workers in companies that worked extremely well. They had good salaries, so let's say, the company that employed two and a few thousand workers reduced to 500 or 600 workers; and that factory was a site, i.e. a generator of development and cultural and economic and health and sports, and now, instead of 2,000, it was all down to 500 or 600 with, say, good severance. What's going to open up those 1,500 that got those good severances? I can open up some shop, some small company to hire just their own people. Because these 1,500 employs environments, i.e. there are 8,000 working-skillers, and where those 1,500 can open up so many profitable businesses that they can hire these unemployed and work profitablely. Of course, I can't, and on the other hand, those enterprises where they're fictitiously "as" employees don't work at all or don't get paid for months and months. Here, in my middle, there is no metal complex in Novi Sad: no "Walk", "Cable", "Jugodent", "Jugoalat", does not work, simply, "Center Slavia", "Star", fictitiously the workers do not take wages, not for months, some and years. They're being held as employees, and today we've heard a million (untapped), we're going towards that number, and instead of being restrictive than the previous one, it's even more restrictive. What can be concluded is that there are two basic goals. First, to reduce unemployment and, on the other hand, to reduce the budget which is very difficult to fill, given its grossness and since they cannot be paid, or fulfil the commitments to the users of the budget, to reduce at least by a certain proportion, which is to be set out on the basis of the social security of the unemployed. What happened? The basis for determining the amount of cash compensation has been reduced, it is not necessary to take an average in the last six months before losing a job, but for one month, practically, so that average is smaller than taking the last month. On the other hand, the period for which the compensation is granted, i.e. social security, is reduced. On the third hand, the rate of giving is decreasing. In our country, earlier in the current Law, cash compensation was at 70% of the base and now 60%, with a tendency to be 50% after three months. Therefore, whatever position is embedded is restrictive compared to the previous task or to these millions of unemployed workers. Instead of having passed a law that would stop this trend of unemployment, the minister practically passed a law to dissipate the state, to move on eventually to employers, and at worst to those who are still out of work today. Given the time seal, I want my friends from the Socialist Party to talk too, it's impossible to touch everything, only in the main lines have we touched this. We feel that this law should not be adopted at all, as my colleague Zivanko Radovanchev said, should be withdrawn and not discussed, because it is disastrous in these conditions today if it is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32001	The word has a folk MP, Sladjan Mijlovic. He's not there. The word is by MP Lazar Marjanski, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32002	I'll defend the minister. There's no problem. This law, as you say, goes to the unemployed, you're wrong. It doesn't work for the unemployed! You have read that there will be conditions for new employment means you are working on an economic and social plan. I don't see any categories, no conditions, no realization of how economic and social development can be when this law is applied. I agree that it is in line with the European Convention and the greatest standard of the European Union. I'm not saying it's not. The application of this law, here in our territory, is very difficult. There are a lot of unemployed, very many firms that are in difficult conditions. The agrarian is on our feet. In the agrarian, many people remain unemployed. I'm sure it's a clear law on which this law is based. It's gone off somewhere. There's a lot of leaks somewhere. That's for sure. If that wasn't the case, it would be different. Don't just watch if the drug factory works. We know it works and it has the biggest income, etc. Watch where agriculture and other categories and other branches of agriculture work. I agree that the employment service should be a modern and fast service. There's probably that. We can't have that. That law could be applied if the other laws were right, and if they were applied here, if our economy had started, you certainly can't say that our economy is working. Minister Pitic says we have no business. We don't do business. Either she's standing there, or she's slowed down. She's missing something. We heard that Mr. Governor, who is not the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, did not even name the National Bank of Serbia, nor do we have a governor, that he has set up money somewhere in England, two billion and two hundred million. Then what is this congregation doing? Minister, you're in power. You're the minister, you answer. Where did we get the National Bank of Serbia? When you don't know, who should know? Djelic talks one thing, Dinkic talks the other, and the economy is collapsed. That's a fact. You said doctors could be builders! Babic says you said it figuratively. I agree, Granny, but listen to me, I can't let clean streets engineers. I'm an engineer, and I can't clean the street. This law must, if you are a minister, be withdrawn, to work, because there are many shortcomings. You should have gone to see the strike miners. One parole says - Babiću, 7,800 workers are expelled from work. They're asking for Cora Widowsky's resignation. I completely agree that Cory Widowsky has to resign for several reasons. She has to resign for moral reasons; we radicals have submitted a motion for her shift, and if she doesn't leave here in the Assembly, she'll give it to me tonight or tomorrow morning in the cabinet and on the street. That's what the Ministers are waiting for. You're the leader of a union. This gentleman who was the leader of the second union says - who's against the law, he's against work. I'm certainly not against work and I do a lot of work. Whoever said that never rolled up their sleeves. That guy never earned what I earned. That's why I suggest you withdraw this law and probably, when there's a vote that you'll vote it. There are some liberals who have not participated in the elections! Only MPs who participated in the elections should sit in this assembly, and whoever has a party should go to the elections and win.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32003	The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by MP Dusan Ilic, is not in the hall, and if it is not, then the MP is Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32004	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the draft law on employment and unemployment insurance is another law trying to make radical changes in the field of labour legislation. The first step in this direction in Serbia was made by adopting the Labour Act, a Law that does not protect the employee. This bill is against an unemployed person, so that radical changes are under way in a negative way and I cannot agree with the conclusion that this law creates conditions for faster employment, fostering employment and meeting the employer's need for new employment, reducing and simplifying administrative procedures. Unemployed persons, under the draft employment and unemployment insurance laws, are considered to be persons aged 15 to 65, if they are looking for work and ready to work immediately, and are listed as unemployed. By way of derogation from Article 5(1), The bill stipulates that the unemployed, within the meaning of this law, are not considered to be a regular student, a higher school student, a retired person and a farmer who performs agricultural work and is necessarily insured on the basis of cadastrian income. It is not disputed that those persons, including farmers carrying out agricultural activity, should not be considered unemployed as proposed. However, members of the agricultural household, who have gained a certain profession from III to VIII in professional training and have not been employed or have been employed, have lost their jobs, according to Article 5, cited, are not considered unemployed, since they are secured as members of the farming household on the basis of cadastrian income. I consider this approach to this category of unemployed people in Serbia, several hundred thousand people, totally incomprehensible and inconsistencies, given the fact that large social resources have been invested in their education, besides the family's personal resources. Serbia is not so rich as to give up professional workers, only because they are encouraging, or because they are members of a farming household. They are secured on the basis of cadastrian income, not by their own free will, but because the system law is so regulated and it needs to be changed. The unemployed who wait longer for employment within the meaning of this law is a person who has been kept on record for more than two years. The proposed solution is more restrictive than it is in much more developed countries. In a developed world, temporary unemployment is thought to grow to permanent when an unemployed person waits for more than three years. An employer who creates an unemployed working relationship, who waits longer for the employment of a surplus profession and whose interest there is, or there is a small need for permanent employment with full-time full-time can achieve a subsidy. I don't think this formula is good, and I'm saying it should have the right to a subsidy, and it can't achieve a subsidy. By order of Article 91(3) and (4) The draft law provides that an unemployed person is obliged to enter into an agreement under Article 14(3) of this Act concluded with the National Service, or at a time recorded by the National Service, in accordance with the agreement (Article 4). be one hour at a specific address to be reported to the National Service. This preambitious formulation of this provision is the result of too much desire for the unemployed to be held accountable for their employment; because during that time, while they are unemployed to prevent them from having any activity. However, starting with the state of unemployment in Serbia at the end of 2002, 904,494 people are unemployed; of which 4,80,352 people are waiting for employment over two years, and 80,000 people are entitled to cash compensation. The proposed legal solution is unrealistic and inapplicable in practice. Namely, according to Article 14. The draft law requires the National Service to conclude within six months of the entry into force of this law an agreement on conditions, procedures and measures for their employment with more than 500,000 unemployed, which are kept on unemployment records for more than two years and about 80,000 to 100,000 cash compensation users; and also established by the agreement each working day, the unemployed should make contact with a particular service in order to employ it. This should be added to the remaining unemployed persons up to 904,000 who, as agreed with the service, should also contact each working day on the same basis. The question arises whether the legislator has any idea what kind of national service it would be that could properly and essentially apply all the provisions and achieve the expected effects? By way of derogation from Article 93(3) and (6), The draft law provides that an unemployed person is deleted from the register if he performs work without a completed work contract or temporary and occasional contract (Article 3).), that after nine months on the unemployment records, the corresponding employment is each offered employment (paragraph 6.) . It is unacceptable and completely incomprehensible that an unemployed person who is forced to accept any possibility to work, even temporarily and occasionally, without contracts and paid contributions, in order to ensure a minimum existence for himself and his family, is punished by deleting himself from the record. The consequences of such work should and may be borne only by an employer who decides whether an unemployed person will hire or only work, whether to conclude a contract, or to pay him a profit. In addition, the solution provided for in Article 6(3) is totally unacceptable and contrary to Convention 168 of the Sea, which provides for certain guarantees, among other things, that there will be a free choice of employment, without discrimination, and that each worker will have the opportunity to get a job that is suitable for him to use in that job of his qualifications and talents. For a short period of time, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32005	The presentation of the MP Nebojsa Jovic spent time at the disposal of the SPS parliamentary group, and the last registered speaker is MP Dusan Ilic and an apology for the oversight and claim that you are not in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32006	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, unfortunately a few hundred yards from this building people strike. They strike primarily because of Serbia's need to share Elektroprivreda, in fact, the ministry has an idea to divide Serbia's Elektroprivred into several organisational units and are simply employed in fear that it will run out of work. That's the main reason these people strike. And what is a confirmation of our criticism of the DSS, is that in this law it primarily deals with and focuses on "willful unemployment". And as we see in this period of transition, and especially when we talk about the time ahead, which means the period of reconstruction of large social systems, we're going to get into problems that mainly relate to "uninvolved unemployment". That is why it is very harmful to sanction people in such a very restrictive way that they are almost a million in the country of Serbia who are out of work. Unfortunately, according to the Federal Statistics Office in October of last year, 0.86 people were employed in one family. It's a data that's really alarming and so much unemployment is really a terrible burden on our society. However, the stimulating measures needed by the Serbian economy and our society are not regulated by this law. Employment and self-employment incentives are very small and for one simple reason, i.e. No investments. There will be no investment until there is a general environment suitable for investing in our country. He's trying through one symbolic way, by introducing public works, to solve the problem. However, I think the Ministry used one of the obnoxious names since the area was very superficially decorated and I assume that the ministry was referring to some seasonal works. So, works organised by local self-government. It is certain that through only a few members of this law that one important area such as public works cannot be arranged, and in particular we cannot expect the public works of the "new Dilovska" type, given that the investment of large ones in this country is not available and that the budgets are empty. Serious public works of her drug-type are primarily carried out when the budgets are full. But then the question arises as to how the selection of workers will be carried out and how the competent authorities will force the concessionaire, for example. on some road that builds to hire a certain profile and certain people? These are the strictest objections to this law. My colleagues talked a lot more about it before I did, but the most basic and the biggest regret is that we simply cannot pass such a restrictive law in such a bad economic environment, at a time when investments in this country do not come and at a time when budgets are empty. It's a fundamental grudge, and it would be good to have this law waiting for another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32007	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word. Yes, please, the word is by MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy member of the DSS group and MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32008	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, we have spoken to the DSS why it is not time for this law to be passed and why this problem is now not the most important but should be resolved at some other time. By the time we've come to have the law on the agenda, in the last 10 minutes, I'm going to try to talk about the law itself, given that as a parliamentary group, we've decided that this law is not worth fixing with amendments. I will point out the fundamental weakness of the very text of the law in our opinion: First, in the basic provisions and what gives practical scope to the functioning of the law is given one argument at the end, i.e. the Government explained that, on constitutional basis, freedom of work, free choice of profession and employment and participation in governance is guaranteed. But this as a constitutional basis is saying enough that this law does not comply with the Constitution. The second question is whether this constitutional provision, which is obviously anachronic, is in line with the time in which we live, still shows that it is not the time to pass one of these laws. Once again I will read - freedom of work, it is gone, it may have been 20 years ago; free choice of interest - it was not and there will be no more; participation in governance - imagine, participation in governance, and the government is not ashamed to state it as a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. Also, in Article 8, a whole paragraph is prescribed by the Constitution, as was Article 13. The labour law, which we passed in December 2001. It is absolutely unnecessary to prescribe a solution from the Constitution, which does not necessarily need to be stated in the law. In Article 4, in the definition of unemployed, a new category: the unemployed is considered also the person seeking employment by means of the National Employment Agency, i.e. the Employment Agency, or directly addresses the employer for employment purposes. It's completely inadmissible. It's only the ones who want to work on black, get hired somewhere at sea, sell ice cream or something. Can a serious government put such a provision and thus define the persons who are in real life’s problem and treat them in this way? Also, the same Article 4 states: "The employer is obliged to carry out an unemployed job interview, on the basis of the registered employment needs or on the initiative of an unemployed person actively seeking employment, issue an appropriate correction to confirm the day, time and place of the job interview." When I was saying that, besides the unemployed, besides the workers, the employers wouldn't get much of this bill, I was just thinking about this attitude of the law. Look, please, the employer is obliged to issue a confirmation of a conversation with the person who came to him, knocked on the door and asked him if he had any business in his company. Totally insane, totally ridiculous. - Jobs. This is more serious now. The agreement between the National Service and the unemployed, so the definition of waiting, where it is said that the unemployed who waits longer or the unemployed who exercise the right to cash compensation and the National Service concludes an agreement on conditions, procedures and measures for his employment. The Agreement shall be concluded in accordance with this Act, etc. And it defines that a person who's been waiting longer for employment is actually a person who's been unemployed for more than two years. According to the Office for the Labour Market, unemployed persons who have been waiting for work for more than two years - 491,490 people are on the record. Is this law enforceable? How is the National Employment Service going to write in some normal time and offer the unemployed 491,000 contracts? It's completely inadmissible. - A face-election offer by the National Service. "If there is an unemployed and employee on the National Service's record asking for a change in employment, which equally meet the conditions set by the employer to establish a working relationship, the National Service will offer the employer a choice of unemployed." What if someone's employed outside the profession on an earlier job offered by the National Agency? What if someone took a job in the lower level of professional training, and later comes an offer for a job in its degree of professional training, and the National Agency offers this job to someone with more patience, normal and more material resources, and waits for that job? It's totally unfair!- I'm sorry. Then, provisions relating to the adoption and implementation of the programme and the measures of the active employment policy. It's a short chapter that shouldn't have been in the law, but it concerns the government's strategy and policy, primarily the competent ministry. These popular programmes and measures of the APZ (active employment policies), five billion dinars were allocated to them from the budget. The contribution to the implementation of the programme amounts to 6.9 billion dinars, and of which 85% of the money is for unemployment benefits, for the rights they have on the basis of insurance. The 6.9 billion dinar figure, to be made by the Employment Service, i.e. in the future of the National Agency, seems to have been oversupply at the time of the adoption of the budget and financial plans of the mandatory insurance agencies, and it is now seen in particular that the figure is not realistic. From this, it can be concluded that all the funds will go, practically, for compensation. So, the means for an active employment policy are practically gone. To compare not only with developed countries, it's not relevant for some time. We can compare ourselves with countries in transition, where countries in transition from our environment singled out for 2% employment and up to 5% of gross national income, while we have a redundancy of 0.7% of national income. When you see those numbers, they best show the situation. All that the minister predicted in article 31 is just a list of good wishes, eye blurry, and it's invaluable. National agency, as a job carrier, new legal person - National Employment Service, Deputy Labour Market Office. What was the need to introduce the National Employment Service? Change of name, not much more. If perhaps we wanted some more serious reform, we needed part of the unemployment insurance policy, so what concerns the right to compensation after the job-free stay was to separate from that part of the active employment policy. It was a solution before, and this time the law stipulates that the National Service will work both ways. So, on the one hand, there will be a market organisation that, in competition with private people entering the job of finding jobs and employment, will be at a market game and will offer jobs to the unemployed and on the other hand, a parabugestite institution, or a classic insurance office, as is the pension fund, as is the Institute of Health Insurance. It's two things that have worked so far in practice, but if we want real market reform, it's not possible to do so. For this reason, I do not see the purpose of changing the name of the Labour Market Office to the National Employment Service. As for competition and markets between employment agencies, private individuals have also been introduced. However, they have been prevented from working, as all permits go through the ministries. The needs of local self-government were not taken into account for those agencies to be registered at lower levels of government. Everything goes through the Ministry: the Ministry's work permits, exams are in place at the Ministry. The question is, who is it in the interest of? Such red tape may have been only at the time of the state, not even social property, at the time of a certain, perhaps a Stalinist system. So, in addition to these reasons that the DSS stated why it would not vote in favour of the law, which are the reasons why the lack of the government and the employment ministry programme, and many reasons and members of the law say that the concept that the government wanted was not well applied and was not implemented through legal norms. These are the additional reasons why the DSS can't support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32009	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32010	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the SPS believes that the bill we are discussing today is not a good law, that it is a bad law, one in the content of a restrictive law, which will, in consequence, be executed by unemployed persons. This law, if adopted and implemented, will cause a number of negative consequences for a vast army of people who will be jobless and will then cause a number of negative consequences for the situation in society. The bill we are discussing today contains different organisational solutions that were not objectively necessary. He has provisions that are a couple of excellence demagogues, there are provisions that are imprecise, which are voluntary, which provide the basis for different interpretations by the rule of harming the unemployed. This law is called the draft law on the rights of unemployed persons and insurance in the event of unemployment, and the only link to employment exists in the title of this law. The law should essentially be called "the law on reducing the rights of unemployed persons". The reform law certainly is not, does not protect the rights of the unemployed, on the contrary, but it will be seen later when we comment on the content. I think this is one of the few laws we've discussed in the past two and a half years, and so many praises have been given by the promoter. Even so, Minister Djelic spoke of the law as a world miracle when it was an extraprofit law, and now after a year we see not only did he not give the expected effects, but he was ultimately politically and unilaterally oriented. The fate of this law will surely be negative. What does employees think of a similar, so-called. reform laws can be seen on the streets these days, and when it comes to finding out what kind of reduction of rights this law carries to the unemployed, we can also predict the reaction of people who are going to lose their jobs these days. Why do I say you're out of a job these days? I think the context of the application of this law must also be seen in the context of Serbia's economy, and the situation in Serbia's economy is very difficult. In fact, the government's policy in the past two and a half years in the economy does not practically exist. There is one orderly functioning of the market law, and the consequences are catastrophic and are seen in each field. There's been a constant decline in production for months, and now we can say two years. This decline in production is, of course, statistically very evidenceable and not all of the data used by different institutions dealing with this problem should be taken. The decline in industrial production will lead to a further decline and such reduced growth rates in the country. objectively, what few people do and receive modest personal incomes, their purchasing power is very weak. The standard of living goes down, and you can't see at all that the country's economy is going to be okay. Of the promised donations, there is nothing, privatisation doesn't go the way it was promised. The external trade deficit is getting bigger and bigger, and the amount is getting smaller and smaller! So all that was drawn up as some rate of economic growth, as a condition of society's development, did not give the expected results. Why does this matter? This law will be applied to an enormous army of unemployed persons. According to official data, 1,759,837 people were working in Serbia at the end of May, and the unemployed were already around a million. The most tragic thing about our country is that the number of employees and unemployed is almost even. Minister Milosavljevic made one statement yesterday that compared to the number of people working 84% received personal income for the month of May, 16% did not, and 16% were 282,000 people who did not receive their own income for May. When you take this million unemployed and the expected number of people who are going to be out of work, and according to different estimates, even people from the Ministry, it's going from 400,000 to 700,000, we're going to see, because it's a huge army of people, and now we're coming to the application of this law, and what's going to be one practical consequence of this law. This law will practically lead to a fictitious reduction in the number of persons on the labour market, but not because of increased employment, but because of a simple removal from unemployment records. In doing so, a large number of unemployed people will be left without financial compensation as the only source of income in the family. Changes to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, which followed since 2000, are, for example, permanentally bringing down the rights of unemployed people. I must remind myself that the first amendments to the law were made in 2001 and then many rights of unemployed persons were abolished, both for the amount of compensation and for the length of time for which the fee was paid. The current bill continues this trend. This leads to a restrictive record of the unemployed by providing for a constant reduction in the number of persons kept on record, which exercise certain rights and provide for less and less compensation for shorter and shorter periods of time. In conditions where our economy is working poorly, and I have mentioned a lot of elements: when production and transport are reduced, when the ownership transformation of the company that carries the redundancy of employees is carried out, when bankruptcy is introduced in companies, and on this basis increases the number of unemployed persons, the records of persons seeking employment, and on this basis they expect social protection is an increasingly sensitive issue. This law sees that it will be an increasingly painful issue for both unemployed and society, and there is no answer. More rigorous conditions in keeping records achieves the objective of this law to reduce the number of registered persons and thus conceals a real state of employment, thus freeing the state from obligations regardless of the position of people who are jobless and their families. In addition, in order to eliminate the grey economy, employees are said to be demeaningly putting themselves into a passive situation to check whether they are doing something extra or passive at home by the phone waiting for a call from the National Employment Service. This prevents them from surviving essentially. It is important to note that all employees and the state are not reduced to the Employment Fund, nor is such a proposal present now. This basically means that all employees are still given a certain percentage for the case of material security in unemployment, but if they came into such a situation, the duration of security would be short and with a small basis compared to average earnings. In such conditions, which exist, the impression is that the state reduces rights, reduces compensation and length of protection, creating better economic conditions for work and employment. So, it's not about protecting citizens during temporary unemployment, it's about forcing administration to quickly strip off their records regardless of their fate. The only possible exit is to force everyone, especially the unemployed for over 50 years, regardless of knowledge, experience and expertise, to public works that the state, territorial autonomy or local self-government will call. The difference clearly seen in the concept of the proposed text of the law and the previous Law is in the organisation and arrangement of business in relation to job-seeking. In the old Employment Jobs Act, the state service worked as a well-organised and well-organised labour market network, linked to the government, with the government, leading the overall economic and social policy, determining the level of contribution for employees and employers. In the current draft law in the first part, and about 100 members, it is overly dismembered and in a new way represents a job giving it to the National Service, but also to private employment agencies. The introduction of privatisation into this sensitive business and at this time of transition, which we are experiencing, can lead to the bias of applying for a job on both sides, to the acquisition of the performance of the conditions, leaving less funds for compensation. Since time has elapsed, and I have spoken this as head of Parliament's group and on behalf of the parliamentary group, we have proposed a large number of amendments and through these amendments we will show all the perilousness and bad solutions to this law. Speaking of amendments, I must say one thing on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, which was the subject of confusion on the parent board and which was mentioned by a colleague who spoke on behalf of the Committee today. In fact, the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs submitted a number of amendments in November last month and February. Unfortunately, we saw the other day that our former colleagues, disfellowshipped members of the Socialist Party of Serbia, signed these amendments as their own. It's a shame, professional and personal. It's very little that we've stolen our mandates, but now we're stealing our amendments. I have to... (President: 11 minutes. I ask the MPs without comment. Please respect the weather. )......................................................................................................... That's because we had one situation... It could also be understood that two of those MPs, who in the meantime moved on to this phantom parliamentary group, that they signed those amendments because they were MPs in February, we have evidence, but for the rest of us it's really a shame and it shows the level of morality that exists in these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32011	Are any of the other bosses... Right to replication, rapporteur of the committee responsible, MP Novica Djuraskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32012	The president of the SPS parliamentary group mentioned me and quoted me not exactly as I said. It is this: two members of the SPS committee responded when I first read the amendment of the National Socialists as the service did to me. They were offended why I first mention peoples, not other socialists, and I had such an examination. I didn't understand one thing, and I don't know now how the amendment promoter can vote against the amendment, and that was happening on the Committee. The exact same amendment signed by Branislav Ivkovic and a group of MPs, National Socialists and SPS members vote "against" the amendment. I read the next amendment that's exactly the same as the big letter, dots, commas, etc. And then they vote yes. Gentlemen from the Socialist Party of Serbia decide what you are for. Are you for the people, are you for the amendment, or are you not for the amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32013	Replication rights, MP Vladimir Garcevic, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32014	I don't know what it means, I'd like to read both the text of the reasoning and the wording of the word, so we'll see what's what. I begin with Article 14 of the amendment, here begins with Article 5. So if someone thinks they can't match things, then they're wrong. That is why I will propose that we read both the amendment and the explanation of the amendments and see what the explanation of the amendments agrees with the SPS parliamentary group. It's my right to think and suggest what I think is necessary. I've done the amendments, not the other one, so we'll read both the texts and that. About stealing, Comrade Obradovic, a little stop. If you don't mind, there are other ways to get rid of it. I don't want my fellow socialists, who I'm trying to co-operate with properly... Today you didn't say that when my attitude was identical to your attitude, but you applauded, and I can't change my socialist attitude, to go to my right, he's here and he's there. So it would be good to get up today and say, you know, I don't support these attitudes either because they're not right, so I'm going to read the explanation of every amendment in order. You can talk all you want, I won't attack my former colleagues and now they're my fellow MPs. You and I can tell stories about anything and ever, because my soul is clean and the rest of us can look at each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32015	National MP Zarko Obradovic does not have the right to reply, the presentation of MP Vladimir Garčević was a replica to your presentation. National MP Zarko Obradovic, in his second statement, following the end of the principle debate, challenged a replica requested by MP Novica Djuraskovic and MP Vladimir Garcevic. Therefore, you have no right to a replica. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a principle search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32016	Dear Mrs Comic, dear fellow MPs, on the basis of Article 137, I propose that the debate in particular be held for up to three minutes, and I ask the Assembly to declare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32017	I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Sinisha Mitrovica and ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement. For 81, against 11, the abstentions were not voted 54, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of MP Sinisha Mitrovica to discuss the details of the amendments for up to three minutes. The People's MP Bratislav Djuric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric, Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic, Đura Lazic, Hranislav Peric, Milan Jankovic and Golub Rajic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Is anyone answering for word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32018	Since the debate was just before whether amendments were prescribed, I think the government is a little uninformed: Bane cheated on him there as usual, but good. In Article 4(2), point 3 above the word "business" is added to the word "under the direction of the National Service". This article shall consist of several points which will be an obstacle to the application of this article in practice. The unemployed need to actively look for work, and this is repeated at all points, so the question is how we will interpret this active job search in practice. There will be a lot of problems, even in the end (paragraph 4) said that the owners of companies or directors will receive workers; they will issue certificates when they have spoken to them, etc., given that we have many unemployed workers, the question is whether someone will allow them to receive 100 workers every day and that the employer issues confirmation that they have spoken to him. I think this could have been solved in a better way, that workers can track, compete or report; there's also the National Service to look for jobs for them, etc. According to this article, how complicated it is, it turns out that every unemployed person needs to get a computer so he can manage and see where the vacancies are, etc. They certainly can't do that, but maybe the Ministry could. Since the Labour Act does not establish the employer's obligation to open a public ad or competition for a job, the unemployed cannot know where there are job openings, so it is necessary for the National Service to have an obligation to refer to the unemployed. We suggested it in point 3 to change and I think in that part of the service it should do more, otherwise employees will be unable to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32019	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you've understood the essence of the amendment submitted by MP Hranislav Peric, and I'm going to be a little more detailed about Article 4, because I think he's controversial in general, so that this amendment of ours could be even wider. It is simply the very beginning of the discussion of an unemployed person, and it is said to be a person aged 15 to 65, despite the fact that such a provision was in force in the Law. The proposal that an unemployed 15-year-old person was supposed to be eliminated anyway. 'Cause what 15 years is -- they're kids. Are the 15-year-old kids capable of doing any more serious work? When we talk about an active job search, it is said to appear to the National Service; current solutions for unemployed persons are once every three months, solutions that were in the previous or current Law, that is every four months for unemployed persons, and when it comes to cash-paying users, we also have restrictions, every 30 days, and earlier every 60 days or every two months. Furthermore, in point 2) active job search implies and acceptance of every job offered, we talked a lot about this subject, article 93. Because what it means is that the right job is every job offered; it is in some way a key member in this law, and that member will certainly lead to a large number of people simply not agreeing to the offered job and a large number of people will remain, not only without cash compensation, but will remain, and you need to explain it to us, and without health insurance, which is very important today in Serbia when the economic situation is very difficult. Of course, the advertising institute was abolished by the previous Law, or the Labour Act and his colleague spoke of the fact that the National Service must have a certain task, and what is said here? There'll be an ad on the ad board. How an unemployed person will go to the employment office every day, i.e. to the National Service, and see if he has a published ad, and at the same time we know that he should be at home at a specific address or on the other hand, that all of this will be published at the "internet" address, which means that every unemployed person should buy a computer and see where there are job openings. Of course, it's very discreet and this is about proof that the employer is giving evidence to an employee that they're actively looking for a job! Who's going to give a confirmation today, because the situation is very difficult, I don't care about that dealer who's left behind, his job's been cut in half, someone's come looking for a job - so give me confirmation and there's nothing to it, so this whole article is very incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32021	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Radojko Petric, Miomir Ilic, Joca Arsic, Golub Rajic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. A member of the SPS parliamentary group shall be responsible for the implementation of this Agreement. (Toma Busetic, from the scene: they will answer themselves. ) Please provide who is involved, because it is a business obligation and please do not throw away, I invite you to the Rules of Procedure which you are obliged to know. Is there anyone on behalf of the bearer answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32022	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SPS, together with the five MPs just read, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. A bill of this law. This article says that certain categories of citizens do not have the status of unemployed people even though they are unemployed. This applies, among other things, to regular students, higher school students and primary students. We have submitted an amendment to supplement this member in the sense that it is not considered an unemployed person just a regular student of higher school and primary studies, i.e. that the unemployed are considered a person who is an emergency student and is not in a working relationship. The government has proposed not to accept this amendment with an explanation that there is no difference between students and that they are all obliged to attend classes regularly, follow exercises and others. Let's see if it's true. How many young people are enrolled in several schools and universities because they can't get a job with medium professional training - what is the number of these young people who live in small towns where there are no higher schools and colleges, who study and take exams at home, so they are still preparing even though they don't regularly study and do not attend the exercises. This should, on the contrary, be encouraged rather than disturbed, for it is as if it is forgotten how many poor households do not have the means to pay children accommodation and food outside their household. Let us bear in mind that this refers to a very large number of households and that in the city, so especially in the country where the number of such households is extremely expressed, especially when one-off scholarships have been introduced and other costs have been increased. Let's not put this category of young people in a position not to have the status of unemployed people. Both for them and for the country, it's better that they get a job as soon as possible, to get new knowledge through extraordinary learning, even if you don't finish your studies, but to allow them to try and run the status of unemployed persons in that time. Is it not better than to destimulate them from learning, waiting at home for a job that is harder to reach? As the country's economic situation develops, employment will become increasingly difficult in the coming years! In view of all of the above, it is worth accepting the amendment, but if there is a need to bring the amendment into line in the amendment's own formulation, perhaps it is necessary, it is possible to do so through the competent committee and to make adjustments in terms of defining that it refers to students who are not financed from the budget, but "who pay the tuition themselves". It would really be humane and it would be necessary for the amendment to be accepted and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32023	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Are any of the other authorised participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) - Proposal to amend the title above Article 8. National MP Bratislava Đuric tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above article 8. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. Proposal to modify the title above Article 8. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic and Ana Tasic together submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the title above Article 8. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. No one's answering for a word. To Article 8. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic, Zoran Angelkovic, Hranislav Peric and Dragan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted this amendment. Malformed representative of the amendment's promoter, MP Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32024	We have proposed an amendment, i.e. to delete Article 8 of Article 1 in the following text: "In the application of this law, other regulations and acts of the National Service and of the Agency, it is ensured that the person seeking employment is equally available to employment and equality in the employment process". The principle of free choice of interest and equal availability in the employment process is guaranteed, above all, by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other laws, and it is not necessary to list and single out individual cases guaranteeing this right. I note that here in the text of Article 1 of this article a whole novel is written. Laws aren't novels. This is written in the constitution, and let those who do not listen read something else, and let the laws, when they are passed, pass such laws as the people will accept. This law of yours is not acceptable to the people, and it's going to fall out just like you're going to leave this scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32025	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 8. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Jelena Maslovara-Ralevic and Ana Tasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 8. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32026	Article 8 states: "In the application of this law, other regulations and acts of the National Service and of the Agency, a person seeking employment shall be provided with equal access to employment and equality in the employment process". My amendment suggested that attitude one be completed here. The rest listed in the heading 1 below of this article is absolutely unnecessary and only a declaration of some equality, i.e. the equality guaranteed by the Constitution, and most of the ones listed here you have shown in practice, do not apply, or do the opposite of that. Here you said "equality," among other things, regardless of family responsibility. This is really funny. Who's the one who's gonna determine someone's family responsibility? Is that someone who's employed in that National Service, those agencies of yours you predicted. Next, you say - regardless of union membership, association or political organisation. This is something that you've shown in part that you're not sticking to it and that's exactly why you've been sharing your notices and you've been doing it for two and a half years. These days are the actual layoffs that you share with people, union officials, who these days are strikein' about this affair in the EPS that's starting to detach slowly. You predict that this will not be a reason. As far as equality is concerned, when it comes to members of the association or political organisations, we in the Serbian Radical Party really have examples, I would not be able to list everything to you, how many people have been fired just because they are members and activists of the Serbian Radical Party. We have a living example, the wife of Mr. Dragan Ljubojevic, who was fired at the Ministry of Faith; Gordana Pop-Lazic's husband, my own sister said she won in the ZIP. The explanation my sister received was that her radical presence irritated the new DOS management of the Zemun Municipality. As for this second position, where you guarantee equality in the process of hiring women and men, this is really degutant, this right is foreseen and guaranteed by the Constitution and I guess it's past the age of feminist movements and some female networks. I think this is really, as a woman I'm saying, extremely unnecessary, anyway, come to the Serbian Radical Party to see how women are respected and there's no need to predict such a thing. The third position I also suggested for erasing says - special protection of certain categories of persons (invalids, minors, elderly persons), is not contrary to the principle set out in Article 1. First, these categories are regulated by other relevant laws, and this term older person, in this context, Mr. Minister, if you happen to listen, there really is no...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32027	I'm warning you people's e-mails, four minutes. We're all equal in rights here, and I'm asking you all to enjoy our rights together. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 13. The amendment was submitted by MP Ispanovich Istvan. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 14. The amendment was submitted by MP Ispanovich Istvan. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted this amendment. Nobody wants a word? Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic and Vladimir Garčević. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted this amendment. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Garcevic, as an authorised representative. On the basis of Article 137. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I also ask you to provide the Secretary of the Assembly with who is the authorised representative, the applicant of the group of applicants for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32028	Given that a large number of unemployed are waiting for employment longer, perhaps the average, somewhere, for about five years, I felt that this proposal has been replaced with a four-year proposal, because the situation in the labour market is now. It is to make a law for a different time, but I thought that people who are over four years of age waiting to have a priority in employment now, and then eventually reduce that distance, because there are those who wait 10, 12 and 15 years, and there are a lot of those who wait for work in their profession. I suggested that those two years be replaced by four years. The motive was that those who wait longer on the labour market are now in priority when closing the contract, given the real state of the labour market. The Serbian government did not accept that. Therefore, it was a motive, no other reason, but a simple real state on the labour market.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32029	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Radojko Petrovic, Miomir Ilic, Joca Arsic, Golub Rajic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32030	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, on the proposal for a law on employment and unemployment insurance that will bring a lot of problems to the unemployed in Serbia, with fellow SPS MPs on Article 14 I have submitted an amendment in which I have proposed that in the position of the 3rd word "two years" be replaced by the words "three years". Article 14 introduces a new legal obligation for the National Service and the unemployed who waits longer for employment as well as for the unemployed who exercise the right to cash compensation to conclude a contract on conditions, procedures and employment measures, while the unemployed who waits longer for employment is a person who has been kept on record for more than two years. It is true that the conclusion of the agreement increases the responsibility and obligation of the service to take all available measures and all activities to find work for the unemployed, while the unemployed assumes the obligation to increase the chance of employment by additional education and other measures, but in the developed world, temporary unemployment is considered to grow into permanent when an unemployed person waits for employment for more than three years. The law offers a solution much more restrictively than it does in much more developed economies. And if it is already explained that the provisions of this law include solutions from countries of the European Union and countries in transition, why not and why is the unemployed who waits longer for employment considered a person who has been kept on record for more than two years. I suggest you accept this amendment in the Voting Day, and we do sort of correct this, although the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not accepted this amendment as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government's explanation is seemingly and only seemingly offered a more favourable-looking solution for the unemployed. Practice will show that it's as restrictive as this law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32031	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Toma Busetic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Minister has promised on the Committee that it will be a direct TV broadcast, so I've prepared myself and counted on my affirmation but it's not worth it. It's not worth it. It's a long shot. And Mrs. Comic, whom I personally highly appreciate, said earlier the same conditions for all, equal respect for the Rules of Procedure, and just before when it came to the DSS parliamentary group, she read one seven eight names but did not warn them of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to this member of staff, Golub Rajic has made our arguments and I would only add one more thing. I find this member kind of pointless. This article discusses an agreement between the National Service and the unemployed. The deal will be dealt with by unemployed persons who have been waiting for more than two years. Those persons in Serbia around 50%, you can correct me, but if we're making an analogy with my district in Pomoravlje, it's 55% unemployed who have been waiting for more than two years, and if it's in the light that the agreements are being concluded with the people who are receiving cash compensation, and there's about 60,000 of them, it's a Circka 600,000 agreements that need to be signed by the National Service. Well, instead of the National Service dealing with some very important, crucial, crucial questions, so by intervening, by finding jobs -- what's the National Service going to do? Only 600,000 agreements to sign?- I'm sorry. What are these people gonna do in the National Service? I think this is just a distraction and it's all unnecessary. On the other hand, this proposal of ours regarding the long-awaiting unemployed, that these are persons waiting for two years, we suggested that it be "three years", I think there's a lot of justification because what those faces are waiting for after two years. They've got public works ahead of them? Do you think it's a reward? We think it's a punishment. And, one more thing, if you so much call for different international conventions, some solutions in the modern world, in Europe and in the world and in these developed countries, these solutions that we offer are overwhelming. It's mostly that kind of solution. So I'm counting on you to accept this. If you're not on the board, maybe it's better at the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32033	I owe you an explanation, MP, given that you have made a complaint about unequal conditions. The DSS did not submit any amendments to this law and I could not even read any of the names of the MPs of that parliamentary group. For all of your known reasons, you've made a lapus referring to the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group. The reason why they are not in session is because there is neither an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, nor a deputy president or president, which is not the case with your parliamentary group or the National Socialists Group. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 16. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Ispanovich Istvan. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. The promoter doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Labour and Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Here you are, the word is Veroljub Arsic, the bearer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32034	Well, the fact that the promoter didn't accept I don't know because we still don't have the government's opinion which just shows what the minister and government have to do with this assembly. As for the amendment, I asked for one piece of the text in Article 17. This part of the text concerns the publication of the need for a job, as the legislator provided that only if requested by the employer in the means of public information. The SRS doesn't share that opinion. All unemployed should be treated equally in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. About how much the legislator takes care of this problem we can look at in Article 17, where there is an interesting detail - that the need for a job will be published on the National Service Internet address. Well, Mr. Minister, may I have your attention, please? Mr. Minister! He doesn't get the minister, so good. Mr. Minister, I just wanted to let you know that if your colleague Djelic got rid of sales taxes on computers and computer equipment, that doesn't mean that everyone has now rushed to shops and bought it. The computer today is also a luxury for employees. A good computer that can serve and Internet costs over 30,000 and above. Calculate how many average personal incomes this is, let alone for the unemployed. And you think if you put it out on some Internet address that you're done with the job?- I'm sorry. Furthermore, the legislator says that the employer bears the costs of publication. Well, you know what, if we look at this situation right now that we're in some kind of privatisation and that employers are gonna be private, you're gonna be convinced and sure that if a private doesn't have to pay for something, he won't pay for it. So that part is absurd, too. The only thing that can get someone to publish something in public information is the law. I think it's in the interest of both these governments and the unemployed that job needs are advertised in the means of public information. As far as these computers are concerned, I'm surprised, since all departments of the National Service are already hardwareed, I'm surprised that this can't be equipped, so even that job that's been in Vranj, for example, that your National Service here in Belgrade knows, so that the interested people point to it. That doesn't surprise me, because this government can't even make a single voter list, and as you started to rule, there will be a very small difference between the number of voters and the unemployed in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32035	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32036	If we want the availability of employment information to be for all unemployed, we think it is not enough for the National Service to publish only on the advertising board and on the Internet. The Internet, which is increasingly used today, can be accepted in future times when Serbian citizens have the opportunity to use more modern technology. However, we believe that any publication is necessary, whether it's a magazine or a weekly labour market or some other means of information, and that it is necessary to make information available, to get to every worker, that there is no situation for the person who encountered the labour market that day to get a job, and the other workers, the question is whether they will meet. Yeah, it's said to have an active role in looking for work. But the active role in job-seeking is also for those who are not in the center and are not in town; they should travel about 20 and 30 kilometers, they should pay the ticket and go from place to place looking for a job. I think there should have been a solution, next to the Internet, next to the advertising board; is that, as there is now one labour market informer, so that it can be available free of charge to the unemployed who could follow all available places on the labour market, and thus participate equally in finding a job. That's why this amendment was submitted to that part, because we think it should be done that way. But the Ministry thinks it's enough Internet! It would be good if we examined how many citizens of Serbia today use the internet and how much they are able to get to that part on the Internet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-02-0.u32037	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. No one's answering for a word. This concludes work for today. We continue the session tomorrow at ten o'clock, by discussing the amendment to Article 20, which, in the same text, was submitted jointly by the MPs Branislav Ivković and others, Miomir Ilic and others; and the MP Išpanovic Istvan. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to provide me with a list of the MPs' quorums that have just been established. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Shandor Pal, Petar Misic, Aleksandar Vatovic, Jelena Maslovara-Ralevic, Ratimir Svirčević; in the morning Dragan Milentijevic; they will be late Milos Lučić, Željko Tomić and Sreten Mitrović. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Employment and Safety Code for the case of unemployment (in particular) to Article 20. Amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs: together Branislav Ivković and others; together Miomir Ilic and others; and Išpanovich Istvan. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment. Are any of the applicants of the amendment answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Miomir Ilic, representative of the amendments to the group of MPs.
