ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27702	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. To determine the quorum, insert your identification cards into the MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Kasa Jožef and Vladan Jovicic; (later) Petar Misic, Predrag Stojanović and Branko Besevic. We move to item two of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE MINISTRATIVES (data) I remind you that the National Assembly suspended work yesterday during the review of the amendment to Article 3. The bill, tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic, as well as by the applicant for the amendment, MP Milorad Mircic. Is there anyone else who hasn't used the right of Article 137? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic. I also remind you that the National Assembly has decided that the debate in particular takes three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Mircic, on behalf of the SRS, has submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on ministries, which lists the tasks that should be referred to as the authority of the administration as performing the MUP. In addition to obtaining new powers, due to the law implementing the Charter of the Common State and the transfer of certain responsibilities from the Federal to the Republic of Macedonia, in the description of its affairs, which by nature things should do, is to protect the country's constitutional order and security. At least we should have a representative of the government, if we don't already have the Government's opinion on all the amendments submitted here, tells us who will be doing these jobs in the future and whose jurisdiction it is. We understand that constitutional order is protected in all institutions of the system. It should also be protected by the National Assembly, and by the Government, and by the President of the Assembly and the President of the State. Only the MUP has the physical force, as prerogative to power, that it can truly protect it. Now we're in a state of emergency. The state of emergency is being introduced, among other things, because it threatens the threat of breach of the constitutional order or threatens the threat to the country's security. When we say the security of the country, we also mean the security of individual institutions, and certain individuals are institutions. It's not enough just to have armored cars or to darken the glass on the president's cabinet, so let's say the constitutional order is protected, we're all safe. We didn't. The police have to do these jobs. That's why we tried the amendment very carefully, to explain why it should continue to be in the description of the MUP's affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27704	State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister Mr. Rodoljub Sabic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27705	Of course, co-worker Pop-Lazic, for the sake of the SRS amendment, has a very important issue. There is no country without a constitutional order and security authority. That's totally logical. Of course, it is clear and undeniable that this is not part of the ministry. She's asking the question, who does it? I'll remind her, of course, that there's an organ that deals with the team. It was not mentioned in the ministry law because of the principles I spoke about earlier in the opening presentation. There are no bodies and organizations set up by special laws here. The assembly was founded by a Security-Intelligence Agency, whose primary task is to deal with security affairs and the protection of constitutional order. I share your opinion that in a broader sense, of course, all other organs do. The exclusive jurisdiction of that agency is exactly what we were talking about. (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: just one thing to explain. I'm not gonna abuse a pay phone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27706	I won't allow it. There's no need. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. There's a word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27707	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on ministries. We simply wanted this amendment to regulate the status issue of state authorities and their competences. Some groups of state bodies belonging to the Ministry of Finance and Economy are not mentioned in this law and are not regulated in Article 4 of their jurisdiction, which is the Tax Administration, Public Payments Administration, Deposit Insurance Agency, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. We, SRS MPs, think that this is wrong, a team that is already in this law that is followed by the law that we are now discussing, so in the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Tax Administration, the Public Payments Administration, the Deposit Insurance Agency, the recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, in section 10 and belong to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. For this reason, we believe that, in Article 4 following Article 2, new positions 3, 4 and 5 should be added, which would read: "The tax administration, as a body of the management of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, performs the tasks of the state administration and professional affairs in accordance with the law. The Public Payments Administration, as the managing authority of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, performs the tasks of the state administration and professional affairs in accordance with the law. The deposit insurance agency, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, as the managing authority of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, performs the tasks of the state administration and professional affairs in accordance with the law." All state authorities must be placed where they belong. In this way, we really do not understand, and especially because the financial resources are particularly reflected in the budget law for these three state bodies, and especially for the Ministry of Finance. We believe that this amendment would speed up the competencies of the state authorities, which belong to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27708	Is there an application for a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we believe that this amendment is absolutely acceptable to the Government, simply binding, given the budget that we adopted in December and the rebalancing that we have on the agenda, right behind this point, because in section 10 of the Ministry of Finance and Economy are all these administrations listed by the amendment and the Tax Administration, and the Public Payments Agency, and the Deposit Insurance Agency, recovery, bankruptcy, liquidation of banks, all of what these agencies and administrations are doing, should also be contained in the affairs and tasks of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Someone can say these are special organizations. They are, but they correspond to this ministry for their work, they are also funded from the budget, directly from the department of finance and economics, and it is totally unacceptable that the ministry then does not have in its job description those jobs that are intended for administrations and agencies. When it comes to the previous amendment, I would just remind the minister that the Ministry of Serbia is in southern Serbia and that it participates in the protection and constitutional order and security of the country, so where does it come from, if it is not in the description of the MUP's affairs?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27710	The word has a minister of state administration and local self-government, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27711	As far as the bodies mentioned in the amendment are concerned and requested by the status of the body within the Ministry of Finance, of course, I can say again - yes, I agree, they should be part of the Ministry of Finance and they are. In that sense, the amendment is unnecessary. They are, given the special laws they've been set up for. I said at the beginning, in the opening statement, that this is not codification, therefore, that this law does not contain a list of all the bodies and organizations in the composition, but only those established by this law, the Ministry Act. Those established by a special law are not counted here because they have their basis in the second law. As far as this latest observation is concerned, I will also take the opportunity, as counterpart Pop-Lazic said that the MUP also works in southern Serbia, of course and thank God. I share your opinion and I think we share it all, and the state authorities, among other things, are concerned with protecting the constitutional order. But it's a special section of the Security Information Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27712	Before we continue the debate on the amendments, only one finding - you received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee and I find that the Committee has not accepted amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 whose debate we have already concluded. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Department of Justice is an authority of the state administration and this law regulates what all the Ministry of Justice, as an authority of the administration, can and should do. With the amendment, we have tried to correct the fundamental Article 5, thinking that some of these matters, as they are formalised, cannot be put in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry and, above all, that the Ministry of Justice is doing the tasks of the state administration relating to the laws on economic crimes, criminal law, the colitist norms, the proceedings before courts, the lawyers and other judicial professions. We asked that, after Article 1, in which these powers are to be deleted, Article 2 should be added, and that those same powers be otherwise formulated, so that the Ministry of Justice retains the jurisdiction to prepare the rules in the area of criminal law; the laws on commercial offences and violations; proceedings before courts; lawyers and other judicial regulations; to supervise the application of the Rules of Procedure, because that is what the Ministry does, and nowhere does it say that it does and provides material-financial conditions for the work of courts and authorities. I would like to ask the Proposer and the Minister, who is here on behalf of the Proposer to take care of the fundamental difference between making rules in certain areas and doing business in those areas. We don't know how this is supposed to be done by the Department of Justice dealing with criminal law, what is it that the Ministry of Justice is going to do, what is it going to do in areas of economic crime or infraction, how is it going to decide on conflicting standards? Well, you know who decides. The Department of Justice cannot make any decision, to any body, if certain legal norms are found in college. You have completely failed to place it in the jurisdiction of this ministry that it must supervise the application of the Rules of Procedure and that the Ministry must, above all, take care of the material and financial conditions for the work of the courts. The amendment is not insignificant, please pay attention to the fundamental difference between the preparation of the rules in certain areas and the conduct of the affairs in these areas, because obviously it remains this way, that we will have numerous abuses of the Ministry of Justice; we will leave here a wide-open horizon of Minister Batic to bring judgments, to press charges and to do what he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27714	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27715	To do what he wants in the justice system. Well, I know you're all nervous and that we'd rather go to the vote of all three laws without debate, but we have to work, that's our job.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27716	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27717	The constitutional Charter also results in the adoption of a new law on ministries. And, since the Constitutional Charter was adopted as a result of the minimum of compromise and consent, with the intention of leaving for a future upgrade, then the minimum went so low that only one party's demands were practically accepted in those negotiations, which is why we most likely have a more expensive budget. Something similar happened in Switzerland 150 years ago, 23 cantons and two half-cantons, made an alliance, or confederate, so over time they saw that it couldn't function exactly like that, and some of the liquids of imperialism did so, so they went from one confederate to the Federation. I hope that's the way it's going to be with this thing called the state community. As far as this amendment is concerned, he has absolutely nothing to do with the Constitutional Charter. The amendment requires that a few more words be installed within the framework of the department's department's department's affairs and local state-of-the-art management tasks, which should point out the ministry's competence to run the population register and a single polling list. It's probably everybody knows why we need it. It probably takes time to do so by the end of the season as planned and it is probably known to everyone that such a thing already exists in many countries in Europe and America, practically, around the world. The population register allows people not to seek convictions for everything and everything, but to see to the central computer that these data is being obtained, and the input of that data into that computer creates a presummation of their accuracy. And we need a unique voter list so we don't have falsified signatories, so we don't have falsified candidates to elect high-ranking state officials, etc. I think it's necessary to fit this into this term. Of course, this is not how nothing is prejudged, because it does not go into the concrete content of the material solutions of future laws that we need, but I think it's good to be in this article as something that should encourage the government to work in that direction, because we have elections ahead, probably during this year. We all know that there are major problems with our voter lists, which, unfortunately, are not yet so-called. the unique voter lists. Something to do with this article, which concerns Article 22. The bill - at the end of the sentence you put one political flossula that absolutely means nothing. Under the rules of writing regulations, it must not stand in the provision. Aroundly, this says that all ministries are authorised to comply with EU law. It's the political position of the DOS and it can't be written like that in law! He can't, because that's how you commit to something that you don't have absolute consent to! Secondly, you should know that all the regulations of the European Union, including all other international declarations, resolutions, etc., all of them leave one large reserve for every country that accesss an international document.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27718	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yes, Minister of State and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27719	So that we don't have any misunderstandings, this is one amendment behind which basically stands, no doubt, a good idea. He's inspired by a good idea, and he's well articulized, but he's inaccessible in this way. So by accepting the amendment, we would put not order but confusion into the legal system. It would be very good if we had a ministry, whether it's the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Interior or any other ministry, run by the central register and a modern and well-organised single voter list. Gentlemen and ladies, it's that distance between a detour and jurisdiction. Mr. Krasic said well - do not anti-cipe with this nothing, nor the content of future regulations. That's correct, but we have regulations, we have applicable laws, we have a material law on elections, which completely regulates this matter differently. From that point of view, therefore, this amendment is unacceptable. So, even if they accepted it, they would put something into the department's work that material regulations can't do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27720	The People's Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27721	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in favour of this amendment, and also because of the need to refer to Minister Sabic's discussion, which yesterday, in my statement on this law in principle, claimed that this way, by adopting the amendments, we would enter confusion because the electoral lists are being conducted in the bodies of local self-government. I would just like to say that the unique electoral list, as required by the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which applies to all other elections, presidential and local, is not a collection of all these lists run by local self-government. That is not how we pictured him when we passed the Law on the Choice of People’s Messengers! We wanted there to be a single polling list in one place, and that the ministry would organise, who it would hire, that would be the problem of the ministry and the Serbian government. It can be done by the MUP, but now tell me - if you can't already, you say, because of the creation of knuffle in the whole area, how is it possible that, as the authority of the local administration department, you're doing the jobs relating to the parent books? Well, the parent books are also run by the authorities of local self-government, and you put it in your jurisdiction here. You will bring and propose regulations from that area. That's how you're going to propose regulations regarding a unique voter's list, and how you imagine it, who you're going to trust with this job, who's going to do it for you! It was you who had the most objections in the last 10 or 12 years on those ballots. What are you running from now that this Ministry, which by the logic of things should worry about, puts it in your jurisdiction? Any ministry would be even more competent. I can see that this is the Ministry of Ecology, so much jurisdiction has taken hold of itself, it's a disaster! You should be interested, that even the entire population register is in your area, in your jurisdiction, so that we can get a copy of the birth certificate from the button, not to go to the municipalities and write a letter to the relatives to take the birth certificate out of us. You should advocate that, especially when you say you're building up a modern system of state administration and local self-government. There's no one else to do that. If you don't put it in your jurisdiction now, obviously, then we won't have that unique ballot that can never be absolutely clean, but you can find a way to do it for a long time. I hope we're not the first country in the world to have that. There are other countries that have these experiences. Whether it will be done by the MUP or by any other body or organisation, it is already a matter of assessment, but there are experts involved and can be consulted on this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27722	The word has a minister of state administration and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27723	Let's try to explain this thing to the end. So I'm absolutely up for the realization of all the good ideas, but not at the cost of bringing confusion into the legal system, like I said. If we are talking about a law that was passed in the past regime and was meant to be, as Mrs Pop-Lazic tells us, that a single electoral list is being established, then we cannot at the same time say that we wanted this ministry to lead it, since the same law has entrusted this ministry with supervision of the update. And logically and legally, it's impossible to empower someone to control themselves! It's both logical and legally unsustainable! Therefore, I agree that once there is a moment, let's look for this solution, but this, regardless of what is a good idea from my colleague Krasic's amendment, is not a solution. (Zoran Krasic from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27724	Oh, come on, since you're a new MP, a little privilege. Otherwise, he didn't insult you, just mention it. I want to be correct, and you're always unhappy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27725	It is not an insult, it is a need to clarify some of the things and some of the inaccuracies spoken by Mr Sabic. He obviously didn't understand the essence of this amendment. What's this about? We already have a similar solution in Montenegro. It is not perfect, but in terms of a single ballot it is clearly applicable. All political parties and anyone interested in seeing if it is listed in the voter's list, it is available to the computer to carry out the check and there is no possibility of a person reporting that there are three, four, five or six places listed, there is no possibility of a dead person being on the ballot for ten years. That's what this is about. I fully agree that the existing Law on the selection of MPs has its inaccuracies and its shortcomings, but it is the result of a compromise that was reached after 25 October 2000. The law was then passed and the regulation concerning the update of the electoral lists, which was also unscheduled, was also adopted. We, in fact, have a situation where when we look for what's called a single polling list, then we get a CD compact from Radomir Markovic in December 2000, where no one can see what's inside, what's registered. In September 2002, we also get a CD in which no one is allowed to make an insight, as so decided by the Republic Election Commission. In December 2002, I get something, it opens up and closes and ends, no more talking, no more talking. We can all say that the law is not good and that it's not good, and when it's settled in material provisions, then we'll put it to the ministry's jurisdiction. I think it's the wrong way. You and the current Ministry Act and in this proposal of the Ministry Act have a lot of words within some ministry that define jurisdiction, and the ministries are not doing it, it is already reserved. Book it the same way with your ministry. The question of two degrees, the three-step process, all of these are issues that can be solved. There are regulations, there are grounds on which it can be very high-quality and successfully solved. As far as the population register is concerned, it's a ridiculous need for us -- that people don't waste time waiting in line for a birth certificate that's supposed to be over six months old, because it's looking for an organ there, so if it's six months and one day, it doesn't accept it, etc. Maybe something's changed there, but we're wasting time on counters, and there's data and there's a population register and it's possible to make it. In pre-war Yugoslavia, the lists were led by the Ministry of the Interior and never happened to be dead on the list, never happened to be enrolled in two or three places. Please, it's impossible at the beginning of the 21st century that we can't get citizens' records. In this regard, an amendment was tabled to act incentivically on the ministry, in a similar way as there are in other provisions of a word binding on the ministry, and only the ministry does not have any material provisions for the work. In that sense, you should understand this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27726	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and the proposing representative also did not accept the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27727	If the Government had accidentally in Article 7 of the Ministry Act, within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, among other things, predicted and marked, only the marking of genetically modified products, I would commend the Government and this proposal because it is normal and logical that the Government, to take care of the health and life of its citizens. Everyone remembers well the panic that occurred in the people before, I think, two years ago when Cromivo-producer and Dragoljub Markovic imported huge quantities of genetically modified soybeans. In order for that to not happen, I suggested that this section be deleted in this Article 7. As for the introduction into the process of producing genetically modified products, this is indeed a disaster. I'd like to know who dared mutilate the poisoning of their own people?- I'm sorry. You obviously want to turn such a beautiful, smart people into degenerated creatures. Gentlemen, aren't we tired of poor uranium, too, this way of poisoning ourselves? My amendment has appealed to your conscience. If you don't take care and you can't take care of the people in general, then it would be good, at least, to take care of yourself and your families, because by legalizing these modified products none of you will be protected in this way. As for the second part of the amendment I submitted to Article 7. The Ministry Act, which refers to the return of pastures and the morning of villages to use, I have written the following obligation, and I am telling you now that you are significantly behind on this regulation, since the law on the return of mornings and pastures to villages for use existed in the Republic of Serbia some 10 or 11 years ago. The law was with a limited period of application, I think it was three years, and in those three years, the mornings and pastures were returned to all villages for use, all of what was possible, as the law then predicted, and what was beyond the boundaries of the construction area. As you can see, gentlemen, this country has worked before you, it will be done after you, and we will somehow survive this period of your time when nothing serious is done in Serbia except Milka, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27728	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk psalnica Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27729	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 7 lists the affairs of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, and in this part where we intervened, and Verica Radeta, the MP of the SRS, explained the reasons for the amendment. I just need to draw your attention that we haven't wiped out that part of the Ministry's work regarding the marking of genetically modified products in transport. Therefore, if such products are imported, the Ministry would be competent to arrange that coastal area as these products are marked, so that users also know in advance that they are harmful to health and that they are genetically modified products. I am absolutely against legalising the production of genetically modified products, because as stated in the bill, this is obviously the ultimate objective. The second part of the amendment regarding the return of pastures and the morning of villages to use, in favour of the amendments that Mrs Verica explained, I guess you all know, whoever has something to do with local self-government, that this job has long been completed, that there are no more mornings and pastures to be returned in Serbia. So someone didn't pay attention to the current responsibilities of this ministry from earlier times, so that's what's left of it. We have noticed that it is too high, that it should be deleted and we believe that the amendment is absolutely acceptable and that there is justification.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27730	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Jovan Todorovic and Ljubomir Mucic jointly proposed to amend Article 8 and add a new member of the 8a. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27731	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am sorry that my colleague Sinisa has suggested that the debate on these amendments be shortened, because it seems to me that it is a very short time to explain the amendment. Why is it necessary to divide the existing Ministry of Economy and Privatisation into two ministries? This gives us one Ministry of Economy, and the Ministry of Privatisation should remain as such until the privatisation process is completed, which, by the nature of things and by the previous laws that we have adopted here in the Assembly, is time-limited. Mrs. Gordana Matkovic, Minister of Social Affairs, recently presented a very worrying piece of information in public. In this country Serbia, 800,000 adults receive below four and a half thousand dinars. There are 800,000 more people receiving under 5,000; that means 1. 600,000 people are in a state of social danger! One way to get out of this is to start a business activity. There's no other choice. The budget rebalance we'll have right after the agenda is about us being in serious trouble. The projected growth of social product cannot be achieved, and as designed, it did not allow for the real growth of population standards in this country. There is no other choice, but to launch economic capacity and there is no more natural way to do it than through the Ministry of Economy. In conditions, when privatisation takes place on all fronts, when we have extensive activities on this plan, it is simply illogical, I think, and unwarranted, to expect one minister, Mr Vlahovic, to at the same time run a quality privatisation process, while taking into account all the important segments concerning the incentives for the development of the economy, the setting of regulations, the measure of economic policy for the growth of industrial production, integration, changes in regulations, etc. So it is unwarranted to expect one ministry to engage in all these jobs in a way that will allow us to have both privatisation and at the same time growth in economic production. We're talking about existing social enterprises, state and private companies, which objectively have a general decline in economic activity in the last year. That's why it was too much for the government to think about it. This is a proposal that simply goes towards good intentions, to share responsibilities, to create a new critical mass of personnel and people in a particular ministry that will only work to revive economic activity. So please, I know that today it is difficult for the Minister who is the Minister of Local Self-Government to declare it, because it is not just a question for him, but for the whole government and the concept of economic development in this country, but it could still be reached by some agreement, that we have another ministry that would help us all live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27732	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, the proposing representative has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27733	It may now happen that the minister with additional arguments accepts the amendment. It is, in effect, an amendment to Article 8 relating to the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. In addition to those operations carried out by the ministry, we ask that the second position of Article 8 be added after the first position, which reads: "The Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises and Enterprise Development, the Action Fund and the Privatisation Agency, as the authorities of the administration of the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, carry out the tasks of state administration and professional affairs in accordance with the law." Whether we agree or not with the establishment of a number of agencies and what we really believe is that it accumulates the work of the state administration, it is already contained in earlier laws. It is therefore also available in the 2003 budget as a item for special services and is projected to amount to 765 million dinars. It's really a huge amount of money, and we think this is what we should also describe in this bill, and the work done by the agencies. In this case, a lot of heads don't hurt. So, regardless of the numbering of all the jobs and what is contained in some other laws, we do not dispute this, but we do not think that, as in previous cases, it did not mind that the work carried out by the agencies was listed in this law, which either consisted of the same or similar jobs or auxiliary and supplementary jobs done by certain ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27734	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27735	Ladies and gentlemen, a member of the 10th proposed ministry law has been defined by the Department of Transport and Telecommunications. This member was told that "The Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications is performing the tasks of the state administration in the areas of rail, road, river, air, postal, telecommunications and intermodal traffic relating to: bonds and property and legal relations; supervision, security, regulation of the technical and technological system; the position of foreign carriers in the transport of goods and passengers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia etc." Most of these jobs, defined and listed here, are logical. The ministry's task is to propose regulations from its area and to control the implementation of these rules in practice. But what doesn't make sense and what shouldn't stand in this article is a provision -- "bonding and property-legal relations". I am in this direction and have submitted an amendment to this article and I am asking this amendment to delete this provision, namely to delete "religious and property-legal relations" from this article. It is not logical that the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications enters into bond and property-legal relations with other persons, which means that it has the possibility to alienate objects, rent or lease objects, immovableities and movable things that are in state property. In this way, if this provision would remain, the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications should carry out directly part of the obligations or transactions that are part of the Republic Property Directorate. Article 29 of this proposal has been given the part-time work of the Republic Property Directorate, where it is decident that the Republic Property Directorate is carrying out, among other things, professional activities relating to: procurement, alienation, giving for use, i.e. in the lease of immovable property in state property, movables, etc. So it's not logical for this ministry to take over part of the authority of the Republic Property Directorate, since it's about the immovableities and movable things that are in state property, and also in this bill, other ministries have no possibility. Why would an exception be made that only this ministry, for traffic and telecommunications, can enter into bond and property relations with other persons, and the rest of the ministries do not have the possibility. If you remember, in time, when the Privatisation Act was adopted, the law established the Privatisation Agency, instead of the Ministry of Privatisation, enters these relations with other persons, or sells social capital. I would ask the minister to consider this and to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27736	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, the proposing representative did not accept it, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27737	I filed an amendment to Article 13 and asked for the word "donation" to be deleted from that article. The introduction of a donation as a permanent economic category at least is shameful. A country relying on donations is a poor and hungry state. We in Serbian have an adequate term for donations, which is "proposal". That begging, with the sale of national interests and resources, is very embarrassing for the one doing it. There was a discussion here about this state of emergency. In southern Serbia, in Bujanovac and Presevo police are forbidden to carry long pipes...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27738	I warn you to get back on the agenda. You've been given your word to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27739	I heard it from the minister and just to say a line about southern Serbia. Nebojsa Covic banned...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27740	I'm telling you you can't! I didn't let you talk about Kosovo. You've been given your word to talk about the amendment. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27741	Chairman, then I'll speak to you personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27742	You can't talk to me personally either.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27743	I can talk to you because...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27744	Please don't argue, don't end our debate badly!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27745	I would warn the chairman that he is responsible for introducing and implementing the state of emergency and that he is responsible for everything the official authorities of this country do and publish in the media! In addition to the satisfaction of regular courts, I will seek personal satisfaction for every tear and trauma of my family! I can't have some snooty, drug-snooze people...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27746	I'm warning you, and I'm giving you a notice on the basis of article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27747	You are obliged to protect me as an MP from all kinds of idiots, who, through the media, call me a fascist, a murderer, that I ordered any murders, you are obliged to protect me from it. It's your constitutional obligation, as someone who's imposed a state of emergency and don't run away from that obligation of yours. We did not dispute your introduction of an emergency...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27748	I give you a second warning under article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27749	Well, that's just talking about you, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27750	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27751	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to explain the amendment, let's ask the chairman why security is standing in the O.R. during the debate. Is something wrong here in the O.R.?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27752	Security during the agenda always stands in the O.R. and don't make unnecessary remarks, what's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27753	Will you hold one member of the security detail with each MP? It bothers me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27754	Go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27755	With regard to the report that we received from the Justice and Administration Committee, please, there are really a lot of counterfeits in this assembly. I see Mr. Hiber is sitting in the O.R. What was the problem with him signing this act? Instead, we have a fake signature. Please, you're really disrespecting us! Either we take this institution too seriously or there's something wrong with you! At least, an act to be signed and delivered to the MPs, let the man sign nicely, copy and deliver. Not cut the paper off some old signature! I'm sure a man can't stand behind this! He can say it's not mine! We should ask him if he's really behind this report or not. Yesterday, you led us astray here, saying that you delivered us a report from the Administrative Board and that I was telling a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27756	Please move on to the agenda theme. You've been given your word to talk about the amendment. You got the report, I'm warning you one last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27757	Mrs. Micic, it's about the amendments. Please don't keep making fools out of us, and you're the only one who's smart. I really don't doubt your mind, you're probably smart when you're here, but don't doubt our brains either. Let's discuss it here normally. Yesterday you told me to tell the truth, when I advertised that I didn't get the report from the Administrative Board. That's not true, because we only got it today at 11.00 a.m. at the MP's club. Don't convince these people now that I'm telling the truth, and you're telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27758	You received a report from the MP's group, and you were not given a word on this basis because of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you were given the word to speak of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27759	I didn't get it when you said it. I got it when I said it. I mean, I was right, not you!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27760	You've received a report from the Administrative Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27761	When? This morning, not yesterday!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27762	No, that's new.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27763	Ma'am, you only wake up when you want to wake up. Please be here all day in the O.R., and when you can't and when you're tired, leave Mrs. Comic or Mr. Vice President, the second, to run the session and everything will be fine. Mr. Janjic's amendment went in a pragmatic sense; a law should last at least as long as one government takes, because each government imagines its power in its own way, it believes there should be 10-12-15 or 30 ministries. The government believes there should be six vice-presidents and 19 ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27764	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27765	In this law, it shouldn't stand for "donation" as something that should be normal. The donation is the category that exists today, tomorrow it doesn't exist and cannot be tied to the ministry's responsibility for doing donations. It simply needs some pure legal style to be erased from this law, and to protect the integrity of this state that really shouldn't depend on donations and the will of other states, whatever they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27766	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tried amendments to improve this bill. Article 14 is about the Ministry of Labour and Employment. It is defined that this ministry performs the tasks of the state administration relating primarily to the system in the field of labour relations and labour rights in all forms of work, except in state authorities; and profits and other income from labour relations and wages in the public sector, except in state authorities. The SRS parliamentary club insisted that Article 14 delete the words "except for state authorities". First of all, a question arises from the minister representing this law - who will edit profits and other incomes from employment in state bodies? It has to be defined exactly which ministry is going to do it and how it's going to do it. Perhaps Mr. Sabic does not trust the personnel solution that is now standing, i.e. in Mr. Dragan Milovanovic. Maybe that's why you don't think it's necessary for this ministry to do that. You know, still, personnel solutions are the current solutions. The election will be in September of the month, so sooner or later there will be a change of those solutions. Your minister, representing this ministry, two and a half years ago when he was appointed minister, you wrote in his biography that he was near the end of the study. A month ago when you voted again and the new government was re-established, it again said that Mr. Dragan Milovanovic was at the end of the study. If you wait for him to finish his studies and the man was born in 1955, we will probably never wait for the Ministry of Labour and Employment to work properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27768	There's a word from the Minister of State and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27769	It is traditionally working relations, and therefore all labour rights, including earnings, are in the jurisdiction of the ministry, which does the work of the state administration. I deeply believe in the justification of that reason. I believe that we will all face in due course a legal project that should fund the position of public officials or people who work in the state service in a way that makes it necessarily emancipated and in terms of politics. Therefore, it is necessary that this relationship is not equated with someone else and the issue is resolved. A colleague of Cvetanovic, there is an authority responsible for the problems of working relations in the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27770	The amendment was submitted by MP Dragore Hiber. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The draft representative also did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Bora Stanimirovic jointly proposed a amendment to Article 17 and the addition of a new member of 17a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27771	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 17, is probably a printing error when it comes to the further education of our children abroad. In the sixth row, the member states: the supplementary education of the children of local citizens abroad. It's probably a printing mistake, it should say that the Ministry is concerned about the additional education of our migrants' children abroad. Nothing more. I answered something else: we ask that Article 17 be changed or that, instead of the Ministry of Education and Sports, it is related to Article 2, introduce a special Ministry of Education, what we were looking for in 2001 and the Ministry of Youth and Sports. If you look at Article 17, and if you see what these are jobs to deal with the Ministry of Education and Sports, then it is clear that the Ministry of Education has no opportunity to meet those conditions that are related to Article 17. Namely, this is about the state administration, related to pre-school education, primary, secondary, higher and high, student standard and, we heard earlier, for the children of our workers abroad. I'm not talking about other powers and professional bodies that are related to education. Starting from the fact that education or education today is a major obligation, it is a reform that starts from primary school to university, it is certain that there are many reasons for the Ministry of Education to be formed as a special ministry, as a special resort. In this connection, our proposal is also to add a new Article 17a after Article 17a, which would practically enable the establishment of a youth and sports ministry and with the competences set out in this explanation. Starting with the current situation in our sport, the other day I read that even our mafia is forming a football team, let the mafia, the Serbian mafia, form a football team, starting with the results we have in sports, or football in the last two or three years, then the situation is completely clear. So much before sports has much to change, especially in top sports, when it comes to players from abroad who come to the country...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27772	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27773	I'm sorry, I'm done. That is why we propose that this and Article 2 be changed and that another ministry be formed. I know the minister won't be able to accept it on behalf of the government right now, but at least let it be thought, I know it's been thought about it, and that's the Youth and Sports Ministry. Thank you very much, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27774	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS did not explicitly claim that there was a sports ministry when it was originally amended by the ministry two years ago, as some parliamentary groups did. It is absolutely unacceptable for the Ministry of Education, which is also responsible for sport, to be involved in certain matters. In fact, Article 17 says that as far as the sport's activity is concerned, "Sports Authority, as an authority of the administration within the Ministry of Education and Sports, performs the tasks of the state administration and professional affairs relating to: sport, physical culture". It is unacceptable, and I have asked the amendment to delete the rest in the second position, the text: that the Sports Administration is engaged in the exercise of the rights of foreign athletes and sports organisations and alliances in the Republic of Serbia, as well as other matters of a certain law. First of all, because we still have no sport law in Serbia and all clubs are registered as citizens' associations. On the other hand, one big problem arises. If, within the framework of the Ministry of Education and Sports, there is this sports administration, it will be able to put public eye on what the other ministries are doing, say the Ministry of Privatisation, transfers of certain major clubs they make with foreign athletes. In the light of the amendments I have submitted, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, there is clear what must be under the law, which is that all rights and obligations of foreign athletes and sports organisations are regulated by law, as for all other parties, natural and legal persons. It's the same case when someone buys a company and we have nothing against it, but that it's all given to the public. What happens now, Mr. Shabic, is the big dust has risen around it and with the right, which is why we don't know how many individual transfers are in individual sports clubs! You have the situation that at the basketball club FMP, whose actual owner is Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic, an American man named Reggie Freemen, who was brought to the basketball club with a transfer that is to this day inexplicable to the public. How are you going to cut off those foreign athletes' taxes, and especially the income they make here, when they're subject to a sports administration that practically doesn't have that jurisdiction under this authority? They must be placed under a law belonging to all other parties and individuals. At the Star basketball club, it's the same situation. These are just some of the many examples. There are also foreign athletes, such as Skuni Pen and Obina Ekezia, who are now players of basketball... (President:I warn you of time overruns. _Other Organiser The Star Club and they have transfers that are inexplicable to the public today. The question under which law will foreign athletes pay taxes here and act like all other parties legal and physical persons, whether they are individuals or foreign sports organisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27776	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Branko Ružic and Rajko Baralic jointly proposed to amend Article 18 with one amendment and add a new member 18a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment, the proposing representative, has also not accepted it, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27777	Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. With counterpart Branko Ruzic on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to form two instead of a single ministry, risking that as a counterargument, we get an answer that there are fewer ministries in modern European countries than our government has. We've made arguments that we think can be acceptable. We think culture and information deserve special treatment, i.e. that they can have a ranking portfolio in the government. There's more reason. The Ministry of Culture, if I didn't read what it says here, had enough work to do. Fortunately, the citizens of Serbia and our people have something to offer in the field of culture and deserve that they have to offer and that the historical and cultural heritage of this country and this people should be placed in one ministry. The proposed act says that what is the area of information is called the media. We think the concept of information is wider than the concept of media and deserves information as if it has its own ministry and its own minister. It's hard now in emergency conditions to make arguments "yes" and "no". Unbound for this, completely principled and fully in line with the understanding of this issue and the detour of jurisdiction and one and the other, we think it would be normal, that this would be directed to be separated into two ministries, because then we would know exactly who is doing what, what are whose responsibilities and what is the part of the work. Among other things, then it could not have happened that the minister, such as now the situation, which covers both culture and information, otherwise a well-known and recognized drama artist, in his career, had banned some papers, even under conditions of emergency. When time goes by, someone won't understand it the way his artistic reputation deserves it today. So it would be good to know exactly who's doing what, and instead of the media, this is called informing, that it's not in the single ministry, but to separate these two things. There's still... (President:I warn you of time overruns. I thank you. There are several other similar amendments. It's possible he can't do it today, but this deserves attention as well as sports and other areas. Mr. Minister, I suggest you accept the argument we have offered and our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27778	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of Natasa Milojevic and Olga Kircanski. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The Justice and Administration Committee did not accept this amendment, the proposing representative also did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has submitted this amendment and related to erasing the work of the Ministry of Culture and Media, which concerns research and analytical evaluation of the state and development of the media and public relations. The introduction of a state of emergency in Serbia has also introduced censorship, media freedom has been abolished -- such a proposal for a ministry law, i.e. extending the authority of the newly-formed ministry of culture and media, is an attempt to continue the job that has been initiated under emergency conditions, i.e. to be completed in the period following the end of the emergency. The government, of course, is aware that one day it must come to an end to the state of emergency and that it must abolish the state of emergency and then ask the question of what will be done with insubordination media, with media that do not only want to be affirmatively referred to the current government, specifically, according to the Serbian Government, the executive authority and the current regime, or DOS! So this is an attempt to discipline them and to transfer the state of emergency in the entire area, that is, in all social areas, and to extend it in a regular state to the media! The question arises: who will implement the state of affairs in the media and who will establish the criteria for assessing the media - whether it will be a minister, whether it will be a complete ministry, some body or organisation within the Ministry, the Communications Bureau, or whether it will be some informal group of people, as it has been the case so far, for example. Baby Popovic and Goran Vesic, will they assess media work and pressure the media? Will the media be evaluated solely by how they treat the government? We, Serbian radicals, believe that the value, quality of work, whether it is printed or electronic media, should be evaluated by citizens of Serbia, or users of services. If some newspapers have a circulation of 150,000 copies and sell 130,140,000 copies, it's a quality newspaper, it's a quality medium, it's something that works and passes on the market. On the other hand, if we have some media that is affirmatively writing about the government, which has a circulation of 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 or 5,000 copies, and from that the government itself buys half the circulation, this other half of the circulation is in the remittent, which, however the government assesses, cannot lead a quality medium. I therefore believe that this amendment must be accepted and that this amendment prevents the possibility that, even after the end of the emergency situation, the Government is in charge of the editorial policy of the media. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. Today we do not have any law in Serbia that regulates public information. This and such act practically leaves it to the government to run both criminal, human and editorial policies for all media in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27780	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27781	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, research and analytical evaluation of the state and development of the media could be, and it is the responsibility of the Assembly Committee on Culture, and that is quite enough, and the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture cannot be at all. Because, imagine the minister coming out of public information, any, I see these days, not taking off the state of emergency, the press is only writing about them, they are, of course, abused to spread their political ideas, to satanicize all those who think differently, the SRS, comes out and says -- and that newspaper, based on research and analytical evaluation of a team, as is now this team, which was formed as part of this committee for media questioning in the case of the murder of the Prime Minister, former Zoran, I forgot his name, Djindjic, Zoran Djindjic, a man, as president of the commission, Petar Lukovic. It is a man who has his column in Time and who uses exclusively or almost exclusively Croatian new speech, and now he is the most competent to do this research. These are the extra-institutional actions that exist so far, and now we want this ministry law to legalise everything and to make the media completely under the auspices of the Minister of Culture and Media. And then where's the media freedom? She's nowhere to be found! Perhaps, gentlemen, you have not heard, because the media is not reporting enough or not reporting at all, and especially the Parliament's Information Service is not reporting to us, and the MPs are no longer allowed to approach us; the SRS MPs submitted yesterday a proposal for a decision to educate the National Assembly of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, as it is proved that the state authorities were not ready to effectively fight organised crime, it is now clear to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27782	I warn you to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27783	It is clear to you that all state officials are using this state of emergency exclusively to spread their political ideas and carry out an attack against everyone else, who thinks otherwise, against their political inexperiences, so here I am, using the opportunity, this is the only microphone I can get to tell you, and the question is whether the President of the Assembly is going to deliver it to the parliamentary clubs at all, whether the MPs are going to get that proposal. I hope he respects the Rules of Procedure, that we will have the opportunity to declare this to be a committee of inquiry and that we will discuss the results of this committee's work here, so let's see who gets 'out of the hole'.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27784	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27785	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 21. The draft ministry law speaks of the ministry's jurisdiction and defines its affairs as a state body of administration that is obliged to take care of relations and to achieve and improve relations with religious communities, which operate in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment I made in front of the SRS parliamentary group requires that the words "and other churches and religious communities" be deleted. Why - long ago, Western - country authorities realized that religious spiritual life has great meaning in terms of integration, harmonic processes in every country and national community! That is exactly why they decided to apply such a process and such a procedure, but in the opposite direction, to the peoples and the state communities, in which they want to influence in some way. This happened with the countries of Western Europe, but not with the Balkan countries and the great Orthodox Russia. In what sense did they exert such influence? In terms of destroying and destroying the spiritual life of a particular nation and certain national communities. We have witnessed a large number of sects of different names operating in Serbia for a long time. Of course they're the most dangerous satanic sects! They destroy society and totalitarian, destructive and social character; they destroy society, individuals and family. Since it is in the text of the bill on the term "other traditional churches and religious communities", which is good, but it is also necessary to define the tax numbers which are churches and religious communities. We in the SRS believe, given this moment and this definition of traditional religious communities, that these are: the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Religious Community, the Roman Catholic Church, the Jewish religious community, the Slovak Church and the Christian evangelist Church. Other religious communities are suspicious of character, and they call themselves just such a pseudonym of "religious communities", although religious matters are dealt with, at least in the sense in which these other traditional religious communities are dealt with by the Serbian Orthodox Church. That is why this name and this sentence leave a large space for the work of these satanic sects and some churches that call themselves churches, even though they are religious sects! Take, for example, the Unity Church, which is exclusively the religious sect of San Mung Mun, a famous sectarian who works for the destruction of many national communities in Europe and the world. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) In the second part of the amendment, I ask that the words "sex-political importance" be replaced by the words "interstate importance". Since I do not have time to explain a little bit closer, I believe that the more appropriate and adequate words are "interstate importance", than "sex political importance", if nothing else, then because of the strength of the state's strength by a certain measure and by a decision by the competent and competent state authorities, with certain relations or certain positions in regulation and these issues of religious content, bilateral or multilateral character, between neighbouring countries and other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27786	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has a minister of state administration and local self-government, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27787	I only volunteered for one sentence in the presentation of Mr. Radovanovic, to clarify the matter. First, we must remind ourselves that in a package of constitutional changes at Community level, we have adopted the Charter of Human Rights. This command explicitly guarantees the equality of religious communities. I purposely stress "religious communities" so that there is no misunderstanding. Religious communities are also many religious communities that are not traditional in us, by the formation of historical circumstances, but which, without a doubt, are not sects, which in serious democratic states are traditional, and here they are not, I repeat, by the acquisition of circumstances. Using the expression against other religious communities, that they are suspicious, can be very offensive to some of the citizens of this country. I don't think that's correct. When we talk about groups, groups that deal with activities, like Satanists or anything like that, we can easily agree that they are not religious communities, even if they call themselves that. He who violates the law, who commits crimes, who is organised on that basis, can consider himself as much as he wants a religious community, but he is in the jurisdiction of the law enforcement and prosecution authorities. However, the standard of traditional and non-traditional cannot serve as a basis for putting into question thousands of citizens of this country who, under the circumstances, are not members of a traditional religious community.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27788	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27789	Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly surprised by Mr. Sabic's discussion. Apparently, he wasn't in the O.R. when we discussed the same issue at one of the sessions, and the basic education bill was on the agenda, I think. At that time, the head of the DOS parliamentary club, Serbia's Reform, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, came out and supported the SRS amendment, which was asked to decidently state what traditional religious communities are, I suppose, perceiving the dangers of some small religious communities that are actually blamed for sects. That amendment has been accepted. I don't see why now, only if you have some personal reason not to accept this, would I then find it almost unanimous on the importance of traditional religious communities and the attitude of this congregation to fight this evil called the sect or your party or party was not questioned at that time. That's another problem, coalition, but I remind you that the amendment is really going towards the affirmation of traditional churches and religious communities, that in no case are human rights being violated, that we do not enter that area guaranteed by the Charter. We can't argue that the Ministry of Faith supports the sects, no matter what, because there are no innocents. That is why I will read which churches are: the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Catholic Church, the Islamic Religious Community, the Jewish religious community, the Christian evangelist Church and the Slovak evangelist Church. It's those churches. They don't have to be listed, it's enough to have "traditional religious communities" standing here, and to delete the rest of the text, and it'll be clear to all of us what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27790	The word has a minister, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27791	I can't really understand how we don't understand it. I haven't questioned the value of the traditional religious communities living here for a moment. I did not even question the "traditional" criterion, although it could be discussed. I went out and said what it says in the Charter of Human Rights of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Read it, colleague Pop-Lazic. I won't call your client either by party or by party. Read Article 27. Command. I went out to protest that anyone in this country who is not a member of one of the traditional religious communities should be called suspicious!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27792	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment submitted by MP Dragore Hiber. The Justice and Administration Committee did not accept this amendment, the proposing representative also did not accept it, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubisa Maravić and Đura Lazic jointly submitted to the 23rd amendment. The amendment's authorised representative is Djura Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27793	The Honored Presidency, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group, or MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, have tabled an amendment to Article 23 of this proposal, which is proposed to add a new point 7 in Article 23 behind item 6), which reads: "Republic Directorate for Kosovo and Metohija". With this amendment, we propose establishing a Republic Directorate for Kosovo and Metohija, as a special organisation dealing with issues and problems related to reintegration, i.e. the return and resolution of the problem of displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija. We propose this because under the current regulations there is no republican body that deals with these issues in a competent and responsible way. Maybe someone will say - we have a coordination centre that deals with these issues and things like that. We believe that the Coordination Centre and the future will have much more serious jobs on the plan to implement Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, around many, many political issues and to keep state interests on the map, and that by forming this Directorate, the Coordination Centre should free up some of the obligations concerning the life issues of those people who are left down, who are exiled and displaced, and who should return below, that this directive allows them with its work the conditions of return. We believe that in this way we would do more complex jobs very important for the return of people and for the reintegration of these people in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. I would like to say that the practice through the operation of such a directive in times when Milos Sekulović led it, and also when it was formed in late 1997, 1998, 1999, and even after NATO's aggression on our country, has given exceptional effects on the plan to address people's life issues and on the plan to encourage economic development, and the effects have been enormous. It was even 20% of production growth and all thanks to the engagement of such a directorate. I don't think it's a waste, it would even be very useful to form this directorate, to designate a team of people who would be doing these jobs in accordance with those obligations that have been established, which we have proposed in the new member.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27794	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to a proposal to add a new member. National MP Dragor Hiber has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 29a be added after article 29. The proposing representative did not accept it, the Justice and Administration Committee also did not accept it. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Đura Lazic, Ljubisa Maravić and Sreten Mitrovica together have submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 29a be added after article 29. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee did not, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27795	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have to re-contain this amendment, because I believe that it would give a more comprehensive picture of the amendments and the need to form such a directive. So, I propose that a new Article 29a be added to Article 29a, which reads: "Republic Directorate for Kosovo and Metohija performs professional tasks relating to the records of displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, issues of displaced persons' status, issues of property of displaced persons, proposed measures and activities for the return of displaced persons to Kosovo and Metohija and for the protection of their property and other issues of interest for the situation of displaced Serbs and other non-Albanian population in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. "This amendment establishes the work of the Republic of Kosovo and Metohija, which should be established as a special organisation of republican importance. I know, Mr. Minister, that you yourself cannot plead and that this should be discussed with the head of the Coordination Centre, Mr. Covic and Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, as well as with other members of the government. I think this is a very complex and responsible issue, and I remember very well the intentions and statements of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who was extremely determined to address the issues of Kosovo and Metohija and, to that end, even the promotion of the formation of a fund for Kosovo and Metohija, in which Mr Zoran Djindjic's adviser also participated. However, the initiative to form the fund stalled after that tragic event. I think it would be necessary, in order to address these issues comprehensively, to allow this amendment to be accepted. We would only have positive effects on the plan to help people who stayed down and who wanted to return, to maintain and strengthen the Republic's bond with the province of Kosovo and Metohija. We also believe that the effects would be much greater if people from the Coordination Centre and the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia were involved in the work of the Directorate. So this would be a republican organisation, but would also be controlled by the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, so that they would cover the economic part, and part of resolving political issues on status and all obligations under Resolution 1244 would be carried out by the Coordination Centre. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to consult the other members of the Government on this amendment a little bit, and preferably accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27796	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal and the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27797	Mrs Comic, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, this amendment to Article 30 is the logical consequence of our amendment to Article 2. It stems from our request to increase the number of ministries; it envisions the separation of the Ministry of Sport and Youth from the Ministry of Education; the division of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, as well as the Ministry of Culture and Information; we are practically proposing three new ministries and it is logical that there be a trail of amendments proposed in this new Article 30. I'm not going to explain, my colleagues have correctly exposed the need to single out and set up these ministries, with the arguments you've already heard and I don't want to repeat. Just to remind you that these ministries already have the authorities of the administration for these areas, as part of these ministries, but would not require the need for some larger numbers of executives if these administrations grew into ministries. There would be an increase only for the number of ministers, or their deputies; normally, someone in those ministries is doing these jobs as an assistant or deputy minister in the already existing ministry. This would not require any new additional financial needs. We believe that far more quality and better could work in these areas for which we propose these enlargements of the number of ministries. We do not aim to be just a simple number and a larger number of ministries, but the purpose of their existence is more efficient and better work by the government and the ministries, normally, to the satisfaction of the people, or the citizens of Serbia. I wouldn't explain it any further, I think it's explained enough so far. I don't think the minister representing the government here can accept and decide, not only should he be a mere observer, but also a representative of the government who can accept on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27798	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreten Mitrovica, Đura Lazic and Ljubisa Maravic submitted to the 31st Amendment. The amendment's authorised representative is MP Djura Lazic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Proposer did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for reporting again, but this amendment is also in the context of an amendment submitted to Article 23 and Article 29. A proposal for this law, because the purpose would not be complete if there were no amendments to this article as well. Therefore, Article 31 behind point 6 adds a new point 7 which reads: "Republic Directorate for Kosovo and Metohija". The amendment sets out in the transitional and final provisions that, following the entry into force of this law, the Republic's Directorate for Kosovo and Metohija, whose establishment is proposed by the amendment to Article 23, continues to operate. It's a bill of law. With this amendment, we would like to round up practically the entire list of organisations envisaged by these bodies, with much more serious effects related to Kosovo and Metohija, so please accept this amendment. You will find great defense in the people of Kosovo and Metohija, who are there and who are outside Kosovo and Metohija, and thus we will all be able to do something more serious together for our southern province.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27800	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. Does the Proposer's representative want a closing statement? The word has a minister of state administration and local self-government, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27801	Ladies and gentlemen, I've taken up a lot of your time and I'm sorry to answer, but it seems to me that, however, there is a need for a few words to be said after this search is over. First of all, I remained in debt yesterday, since we had a joint search, to answer some questions that were raised, and above all I think of one, a characteristic well-intentioned approach for him, Mr Milan Radulovic, but also others related to certain issues raised in connection with the adoption of the agreement. I agree with my colleague, Pop-Lazic, that's how I experienced it. I've carefully brought all the participants into the debate, with the deep belief that everyone wants to contribute to finding a better solution. So when we talk about a decision on the adoption of the agreement, a few issues have been raised. First, why is this agreement even here in the Serbian Parliament? I remind you, and I said it was one law implementing the Constitutional Charter, a defined institute that allows for reconstruction until then the existing structure of the federal authorities. It shall be appointed as an agreement of the Republic of the Member States. The government has taken the view that this implies the jurisdiction of the most important authority in the Member State, which is parliament. Hence the agreement in parliament, hence the realization that it should not have been done by the government. The second question - if the Government is already calling for Article 17(3), does this disabling Article 17(2) or the possibility of a Community body revitalising certain issues within the framework of the Charter and the Law on Implementation of the Charter make available to them? No, no way! So I have defined what is the normative basis for proposing this agreement, and the government is on the view that it is a constant interest to strengthen the community, but I repeat, in line with those principles that we have defined. So, in accordance with the principles of the agreement, not imposing. You know how community bodies function, how the Council of Ministers' decisions work, and how political realism works. The third question - why emergency procedure? For quite pragmatic reasons, gentlemen. It was necessary to create, on the one hand, the normative frameworks for the Republic's authorities to act in areas where the federal authorities that have ceased to work had to act; and secondly, assumptions were to be created for the accession of the Republic's budget. So much for issues related to the government's definition of the proposal for a decision on the adoption of the agreement. As for the Ministry Act, there have been many amendments, some of them I've been answering and I wouldn't take up your time again. I just want to remind myself that in many democratic countries, these are actually issues most often and not in front of parliament. It stands, therefore, in the view that the government is responsible for parliament's situation in the whole sphere of government and that the government organises the executive power by its acts and that parliament is, of course, controlled through general political control and through the adoption of budgets and budget rebalances. We now have a situation like this one, the definitions I've given you, are exactly the expression of that primary task that I've defined. By proposing this law, we wanted first of all, and that's a priority, that's a basic task, so that we normically arrange a number of jobs that were once on a federal level, to arrange them at a republican level. That's why I wouldn't argue with concrete ideas. There's one, which I have a very special respect for, and I'm going to say a few things about. It is a proposal of special, new authorities that would be related to Kosovo and Metohija. I want it to be known that the government does not underestimate the importance of this issue. It is constantly in the government's thinking, and I thank Mr Lazic for reminding him of one of the efforts that was inspired by the activities of the late Prime Minister Djindjic, which was therefore not related to the operation through the administrative sphere, the governance sphere, but through something that was outside the administration, but which was very life-threatening, which was the creation of a fund that would provide the resources necessary for what is the goal, I want to believe, all of us here, which is the return of the non-Albanian population to Kosovo. So, the government is standing by, given everything I've said, that it's a permanent, permanent task, and that, simply, a real consolidation is such that our presence is found and that at this point we have to deal with problems through the apparatus that we have, so through the Coordination Centre, it's real. If we wanted to be demagogues, it would be the easiest thing for me to accept the proposals that have been made and to say that it's the government's merit. Permanently, the problem is the return of the country's real attributes to Kosovo, the permanent problem is the government's problem of returning non-Albanian living to Kosovo and the permanent problem is the insistence on achieving all those tasks of the international community's apparatus, which are defined by Resolution 1244, which have not been achieved. We simply think that at this point, this is a real measure of value, not underestimating and understanding at all as highly constructive warnings and proposals coming from the opposition in this respect. I thank you ladies and gentlemen and I ask you to vote in favour of the motion for a decision on the adoption of the agreement and a proposal for a law on ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27802	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. THE year (in principle and in particular) you received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Milorad Stanulov, Biači Anton, Veroljub Arsic, Dragan Ljubojevic, Zoran Krasic, Stevan Kesejić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Vitomir Plužarević, Natasa Jovanovic, Milorad Mirčić and Momcilo Trajkovic. The amendments that will be submitted to this moment, i.e. until the start of the search of the bill, will be sent to you afterwards. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. At the session of the Committee on Finance, the opinion was set out by MPs Slavoljub Matic and Milos Todorovic, members of the Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for a word with the order of MPs of individual parliamentary groups, so that we can coordinate the order of speakers according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly from the least to the largest parliamentary group and by changing for and against the definition of individual parliamentary groups. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. On behalf of the proposed word, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Zoran Zivkovic, has.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27803	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The budget rebalancing has its clear foothold in the redefinition of the former Yugoslav state into the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and that one part of the jurisdiction from the former federal level is now being brought to the level of the member states. That is the basic reason, and I think there is no surprise that Serbia's budget rebalance is on the agenda today. What some macro-pointers are, which is not only about these changes in jurisdiction, but also about what results from the assassination of Prime Minister Djindjic in the economic part, it is that we expect to have to correct the rate of growth of the gross national product from 5% to 3.5-4.5%, which also has its effects on the budget. On the other hand, it is estimated that prices will rise not to 9%, as we had in this projection, but that it will be something more, between 9% and 11%, which is the expected inflation. In line with the competences of the state community and the Member States and due to these changes, the budget will be higher by 57.2 billion dinars. This is a total increase, and that part, which refers to competencies brought down from the federal level, amounts to 41 billion, of which Serbia will finance 38.2 billion, and the rest will be financed by Montenegro. Most of these new expenditures, which are now going through the Serbian budget, are related to the military and 88.4% of the state union budget, and I don't think there will be any major dilemmas. In reality, it's the same budget as the Yugoslav Army had last year. Serbia will finance 93.3% of the total cost of the state community, and the rest of Montenegro's 6.7%, a major newspaper, especially in the last six-seven years, when there was no funding from Montenegro. In itself, that percentage is not extremely significant, but it is not for neglect. But in general, it is one of the first financial visible consequences of harmonising relations between Serbia and Montenegro, or a new phase in those relations. As you could conclude for yourself, 16.2 billion dinars is an increase in the budget for the part relating to Serbia's new functions, and are being taken over by institutions at the level of Serbia's Member State. It is money that will be used to finance customs, flight control, to increase the number of employees in Serbia's MUP, as around 700 people from the federal MUP will move to Serbia's MUP. As you know, there is a traditional lack of employees in Serbia's MUP otherwise, the capacity is below 70%, competitions are constantly open, and I hope that the budget also looks at the possibility of increasing the number of people working in Serbia's MUP. The funds to finance the needs of the MUP and the Security Information Agency have also been increased as a result of the increased engagement of the two institutions, shortly in southern Serbia, and unfortunately in the last two or three weeks in the fight against organised crime, the investigation into the prime minister's murder and all other investigations, which you are certainly very well informed of. The funds, which will be increased, relate in part to the Ministry of Education and Education, primarily funds for pre-school education and districts for their shared expenditures. The funds for the needs of this year's budget, relating to education, culture, have also been increased, and this is an increase of one billion. Taking over from the federal level is not only cost, but also income came, so we can say that in the overall account, when we add what we get as income from the current federal level, and when we subtract from it what is new expenditure through Serbia's budget to finance the assumed powers and what remains at the federal level, or at the level of the state community, Serbia will remain more. This means that part of the increase in Serbia's budget for the purposes of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia will be greater by one piece coming from federal revenues. The budget deficit remains the same as was planned, meaning 46.9 billion. It will be covered by the structure, which is innovated. We expect that the deficit will be filled with 14.9 billion, from privatisation with 12.5 billion, from the international community's loan with 12.7 billion, and from domestic loans to the National Bank and business banks with 6.8 billion. It should be said that in the transfer of jurisdiction during that period before the adoption of the Constitutional Charter in the federal government, about 1,800 people received severance payments because they themselves decided not to work in the federal administration. The budget also provides for money, but in that federal part of the budget or part of the budget belonging to the state community, for over a thousand more people, who will be forced to take severances, or there is no need for further engagement. The severances will now be at the level of what is the standard in Serbia, which means six average salaries. These are the basic data, which you yourself had, and I expect you to get more and more details about the budget rebalancing from the finance minister Djelic. I expect the budget to be adopted. I don't see any conditions in it for any particular long or heated debate. I expect it to be adopted with the necessary majority or unanimously, first of all because it is one of the changes that we had in our country, and for these changes, as I recall, in this Parliament and in the federal parliament, the largest number of MPs gave their positive opinion. So much for me. If you have any questions later on regarding the political aspect of the budget rebalancing, you can ask me, and I am sure Mr Djelic will give you information and answers about all the details of the new budget, i.e. the law on the budget of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27804	Does the representative of the proposing Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy, want a word? Yeah. He has the word Mr. Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27805	Madam President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, not repeating everything that was said in the debate last November in this house, because this is an almost identical budget, as far as the users of the Serbian budget are concerned, you first adopted the budget earlier than expected. If we look at this budget rebalance, as the Prime Minister said, he's here because there's been a adoption of the Constitutional Charter. It is therefore not just one positive act in terms of our country's constitutional arrangement. I would look from an economic point of view: the Constitutional Charter itself and its law on enforcement, and today this law on ministries that you have just debated and now the budget, will allow things to be much clearer for all those who want to commit in Serbia or who want to invest in Serbia, whether they are domestic or foreign investors. Thanks to these changes and ingenuities that will be financed in this way, the situation will be very clear for those who want to do business with us. If you look at the issues of finance, privatisation, social issues, everything that means life, which means innovation, it is all now at the level of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Black Mountains. In this way, in many ways the procedure and way of doing business in our country is simplified, and that is good. The second element, which is that this new structure allows saving. Savings for a Serbian taxpayer, because if we compare the picture we had in November or December of last year and the picture we have, if you adopt this budget, it's one savings of approximately 5-6 billion, to begin with. I think in time we'll be able to save extra. How? The first element, which is that Montenegro, for the first time since 1999, participates in the financing of the state community. Of course, as already noted several times, it would not be true that they did not invest in anything and that they had those 3% of the sales tax, where they did not change the fiscal system still collected 3% of the sales tax and directed towards municipal enterprises and companies in Montenegro, which were suppliers of the army and paid their expenses. It is not true to say that Montenegro has not given a single dinar to the military or other institutions. I'm sure it wasn't in this area. According to some estimates, it was about tenm euros, if we are talking about a coin that has been Montenegro's coin since last year. This year it's 45m euros. That 45m euros is about 2.5 billion to 3 billion dinars. That's so much less for a Serbian taxpayer to settle these costs. The 45m euros are not for a year, but for nine months, from April to December this year. We can expect it to be even more next year. Here is the first source of savings for the Serbian taxpayer. Another source is the one that the Prime Minister mentioned earlier, which is to take advantage of this moment of change, to examine the necessity of various jobs, and I would say some material costs. We will reach some 3,000 officers less and not only at the common level, but also at the crossing of the Serbian level, according to the law you voted last June. Elders in Serbian institutions take over, not on a flat-rate basis, all those in the given sector or in the ministry or in the organisation, but if necessary. We have worked very carefully to avoid taking on more perpetrators, or any other costs than is necessary. That is why we are coming to this household behavior, which we need to complete this year, because this property that exists needs to be divided in the most rational way possible. When we say the most rational way, it means trying to free some buildings, to be sold or leased. So the state just takes over that number of square meters that is necessary in the new structure. There are some ideas, as you know, and it will be interesting to follow that, for example, it is not only a matter of saving but also a way of working, that perhaps this prized home will take up that larger hall, where there was a federal assembly, because this is most likely the ugliest congregation in Europe that exists. We have a situation where we had two homes at SRJ level. So 131 MPs are now working at the level of the state community. It's that former joke of the Greater Republic that's enough for that. The larger hall, along with some minimum work, will be enough for this home. This means that this building will most likely be necessary for some professional services, but here's an idea, that this home will finally get the right home and that you have some working conditions that are worthy of the work you're doing. Thank you. [[Applause]] In addition, I just want to say that they save and redistribute you in the way that buildings and various other things used by the state must be transferred not only to Belgrade, but to our entire country. We have a situation where some barracks aren't fully used, we know that the MUP or some other authorities are in commercial lease in that same city, and in some cases in the same neighborhood. Here's a way to save. Of course, you can't do it casually, you can't do it over your knee, you need to make a plan and you need to do it gradually. I think we all owe the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, to our taxpayers to absolutely use this moment to save everything that is possible to save and to use everything rationally. The third thing, and last thing, I would like to say about this budget rebalance, which is that for those MPs (and there are also from various groups) who have read well, for the first time in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and this is the first time I have seen it in any of the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, including those of the 30s, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, means, the Executive Authority, delivers to the National Assembly the amount of borrowing and guarantees that the Government can do in the given year. There is this Article 2, and I would like to comment on it, because I see it and I have already heard that there are some arbitrary interpretations, where we are entering a situation where the last way in which one executive authority, now that we have all the public revenue and expenditure in the same place, some executive power could enter additional costs on some future budgets through borrowing and guaranteeing some who are not Serbia's budget, but for which it is guaranteed. In this budget, for the first time, you have on your approval the total amount over which the Government cannot cross without returning to this home. We have already had this as a practice for two years, that for any loan bearing a sovereign guarantee, it must come to this home and it must be a positive vote of this house, as it was in February this year in respect of loans to Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad, for their local infrastructure. So, this good practice, this healthy practice of public finances, where executive power cannot, as previously worked, decide in the cabinet itself to lend future budgets, to pass on large commitments that are not seen in the budget, that practice has already been established. This time, according to the Budgetary System Act, we have a full picture of all these possible guarantees. I want to get into the detail of the 66 billion dinars, and that's a figure that looks big in itself. Here I want to say what is inside and what is very good, and I am very proud of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to finally introduce this practice that all future governments, however they may be, must say in the budget for a given year, which is the maximum of borrowing and the maximum guarantee that any government and the obligations it can enter, which this Parliament knows about. So 66 billion is there for a variety of reasons. This house has not yet voted in favour of numerous credit arrangements already under way. In these 66 billion, of course, we have a small guarantee that is of some 300 million dinars, after a tender for conditions that could be granted, one business bank has been given the opportunity to finance the import of mineral fertilizer. We can have enough mineral fertilizer in the spring of this year. That's 300 million dinars. After that, much larger items are those concerning international financial institutions. I wouldn't go in, because they're gonna deliver everything to you, you're gonna have a detail of all the credits, and you're gonna be able to get an update on those guarantees today. You'll see that there's nothing else here but, one of those loans where it's already been voted in the Federal Assembly one guarantee and which are operational. These are loans from the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction, loans from the European Investment Bank and smaller financial institutions. On the other hand, for the first time in 2003, we have one assessment, which is these loans that are negotiated at this point and for which purposes are intended to enter into the conclusion of certain contracts and where we expect this House to vote on a counter-guarantee in 2003 and thereby guarantee the sovereign payment of these loans. There's no exotic, it's international financial organisations again, because our country (I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to mention it) and in no way do we go into debt and give a sovereign guarantee under commercial conditions. We don't want it, we can't, because at this point in time when we have the negotiations that have been completed, at least in the multilaterals, it is now fully implemented in bilateral agreements with our trustee at the Paris Club, which have already written down 51% of our total debt, and in three years, if we implement a successful economic reform programme with various financial institutions, it will write off another 15%. We're re-negotiating with the London Club, where we expect very similar contracts. Of course, you can't ask the same trustees to write off two-thirds of the debt while guaranteeing 100% of the commercial debt. So, you'll see, in this figure, it's all concessional, so it's either a loan from international financial institutions (one example), it's the World Bank, it's 20-year-old loans, at 10 years, zero interest rates, and everything else is much more favourable than we could get on the capital market. These are the only loans where the Government of the Republic of Serbia will suggest to you that one sovereign guarantee, and all other loans (remember last year), was the issue of the German Development Bank, it was a loan for the electricity industry, for its rehabilitation, for one such loan to come to the agenda, it must have an element of concessionality or donation, if you will, by 35% according to some criterion of the commercial loan. These are two types of loans that come into consideration, or those that come from international financial institutions, which by nature things are non-commercial (and we will have access to these loans for a few more years), or if another institution wants to give us a loan and wants a guarantee, that loan must be at least 35% cheaper than one normal criterion of commercial debt. Therefore, in no way does it mean that suddenly this year, Serbia wants to be in charge of 66 billion. No, we predict that this year will be compensated (if I may say so), a little delay in adopting some counter-guarantee laws and predicting what additional duties would be necessary for our country. I wouldn't be long. You'll get details in your explanation. This budget is a continuum budget under some difficult conditions. We are confident that we will succeed in carrying it out, and therefore we suggest that you adopt it in that form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27806	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want the word, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( b) Do the MPs who issued an opinion on the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Dragan Markovic, so Jovan Todorovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary groups, spoke. The word has been made by MP Dragan Markovic, a member of the SS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27807	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Soviet Union will not vote in favour of the Budget Rebalance proposal, for a known reason - we did not vote even when the draft budget was, because we are plagued by four items, which are mentioned today. The deficit is 46,901,819,000 dinars; it will be covered by privatisation, which is something that our SSJs have our eyes on, part of 12,500,000 dinars. Today I read in the paper that Sartid is sold and that the value of Sartida is 23,000,000 dollars or 1,380,000,000 dinars. So we need to sell nine factories to secure these funds, nine orderly factories such as "Sartid", and it's known to be one big giant in Serbia. Second sentence, donation funds. We believe we should take advantage of Serbia's popularity, and Serbia has not had this popularity in the last 12 years, and we are asking that as many donations as possible come to Serbia. The value now envisioned is 14.900,000, and we believe that this situation and the popularity of Serbia can now be exploited, and that if not twice as high, the figure may be at least 50% higher. What's bothering us from the Soviet Union is an international loan. We don't think that the international credit is very favourable, and that these credits we've received so far, and also here we've given a double guarantee, we in the Republic Assembly, we don't know where that money went, and we know that no factory in Serbia has been formed, that no company has been formed that will employ those workers who have lost their jobs. What bothers us is also domestic duty. Domestic liabilities of 6,767,819,000, when we now look at these four items, when we sell nine factories, to secure the first item, when we sell 31 orderly factories such as "Sartid", to provide a figure of 42,637,781,000, to fund the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. So we have to sell together, ladies and gentlemen, 40 factories in Serbia the size of Sartida and secure this budget deficit. Now the question is -- okay, and let's do all that, how are we going to charge the budget in the next period, if this automatically pulls the workers off the job? This was done by all the companies that were privatized; specifically in Cementar in Paracino, a factory that was stable before, more than 60% of the workers were fired, 2,400 workers had this factory, and 1,500 workers were fired. It is that they have received great severance, but that severance is apparent. Each of the workers needs 12 to 15 years to retire. And the question is, how are these people going to provide this internship, and what are they going to live on for the next 15 years? Minister Vlahovic said the reduced purchase price of the cementer's input was 30%, and said - it had damage to the state. No, there was no damage to the state back then, and we think there's damage today. Because watch out, the price of the instructions has been reduced, but the price of cement has been increased by 40%. On what basis did the manufacturer increase the price of cement by 40%, if his input was reduced? Also, of these sold factories, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not benefit much. And when we look at all this, it means 40 factories need to be sold in Serbia to secure this deficit in the budget, new customers will fire 50% of the factory's workforce, from the company, automatically reducing the inflow in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Because if someone's not busy, then they don't pay pension and social security. There is damage to the government of the Republic of Serbia, there is damage to local self-government, for the percentage that returns to local self-government. What bothers us from the Soviet Union in this proposal, too, is that a small rate is foreseen for social assistance. Given that donations from abroad for folk cuisine (these days) have been lifted and that the obligation has a local state of mind to provide funds for folk cuisine, I remind you, as far as I know, that these days all municipalities in Serbia have halved the number of users, because local self-government is not in a situation and did not predict in its budget, (she did not know that this would happen) that from its municipal, local budget could finance this item. Also, we of the Soviet Union believe that in this rebalancing, a very small figure is intended for agriculture. I just want to remind Minister Djelic that we asked to pay for the unpaid sugar tail in cities from Pogorets to Kruševec. Even we have a mild promise, you know it from whom, that it will be realized, and you did not foresee it in this draft budget rebalance. What bothers us from the Soviet Union, from our point of view, from the point of view of the economy, is that this swimming course is starting to scare us, because the swimming course has reached 65 dinar figures. We know how it was said at the beginning, that a swimming course can go beyond 60 dinars maximum. We're afraid that this course, so swimming, doesn't drown and inflation and devaluation happen again! From everything I've said, the Soviet Union will not vote for this budget rebalance proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27808	The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27809	Madam Komic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to point out to you the few principled positions of our party on the draft amending and supplementing the 2003 Budget Law. Of course, I do not wish to dispute any of the figures mentioned in the opening statements of the Prime Minister and Mr Djelic, but I would like to refer to several facts that are not quite as encouraging, at least seen in the eyes of the Socialists, as presented by Mr Zivkovic and Mr Djelic. It is true that the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, due to changes at the federal level, increases by 57.2 billion. The truth is that total expenditures are also increasing on that basis. Thus, the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003 is balanced. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of the basic Law on the 2003 budget, which said that 18% of the traffic tax collected in the Republic of Serbia and 20% of the tax collected was defined for the financing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia at the time, i.e. the federal budget and that it was a total of 35.6 billion dinars. Today, we have in the proposal an amount of 38.2 billion dinars. We conclude from this that we actually have increased financial expenditure based on the financing of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro by about 2.6 billion dinars. If you think I'm wrong, I would ask Mr Djelic to further explain these few data, but it seems to me that we always have to count so that one and two and there are no dilemmas, because by 2003 the total amount of taxes and the total amount of excise duties is determined and relatively and absolutely, and that is 35.6 billion compared to the proposed 38.2 billion. I hope we don't argue about that. Secondly, the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget remained 46.9 billion or, surrounded by around 47 billion. The different structure of the deficit and the way in which that deficit is covered is different. And then and now, the Socialist Party is against deficit financing, at least to this extent or in this budget in 2003, and not just in it, but in each of the coming years. It is particularly against the use of privatisation funds in any amount as funds for public spending without being used through the Development Fund or through other regulatory mechanisms in the budget for the promotion and development of Serbia's economy. Those who disagree with me will tell me -- not true, we have 6.9 billion that are planned for the transition fund in this budget. That's true, but I'm asking you why there wasn't 15 billion in December or why it wasn't 12.5 billion, as much as it is now proposed to cover the budget deficit from privatisation funds in 2003. Thirdly, regarding the budget deficit, it is also a key issue. It's a matter of our country's debt and new borrowing based on deficit financing. You're gonna tell me that maybe that's not true either. I remind you that you say here -- we're going to cut the privatisation funds that go into the budget, because we have that problem, by 2.5 billion, and we're going to increase the grant by 5.4 billion, and that's going to balance the budget deficit story. Article 2 discussed by Minister Djelic says the country will be in charge of at least 1.1 billion euros in 2003 or will have an obligation to service the debt to some extent. If you tell me that is not true, then it is quite clear that in 2003 we will be in charge of at least 25 billion dinars of new loans, as stated here in Article 2 and we will discuss this here in the Republic Assembly only in case they cross that amount of debt, or in case the guarantees that should be provided on these grounds are on the agenda of the Republic Assembly. The Minister is taking his head, but the question is how do we interpret this Article 2. Article 3(3) says "Planned borrowing by foreign creditors to the amount of 24885,000 dinars". I don't know how else to interpret it, but in 2003 we'll be in additional debt for about 400 million euros. That's a fact. Here's the question of how we're going to go further into this, if we have a permanent increase in liabilities based on the principal and on interest on previously taken loans. Just a few data; I don't think there's any slow, because those figures are out there and they're public, they're transparent, as they say. In the 2003 budget, which we adopted here, we had a few figures, so it says: interest payments - domestic loans 2.268,000,000, ino-credits 8,522,000,000, total 10,790,000,000". The rebalancing now says "domestic loans 2.578,000,000, io-credit 8.865,000, totaling 11433,000". Following budget debt costs for 2003 are 200 million, and in the budget rebalance, in the proposal we are talking about, 850 million. Total debt liabilities -- 12,283,000,000 or 1,300,000 dinars more than was projected by the 2003 budget before this rebalance. It was interest. Take the majors: it was planned to pay 12,316,440,000 dinars in 2003 based on external debt, plus 650 million, and that is around 12,966,000,000, around 13 billion. We now have in the projection of the 2003 budget rebalances of 17 billion 868 million on the basis of principal payments or 4.9 billion more than it was in the 2003 budget. When commitments are collected based on interest and liabilities based on the principal, we get to the amount of 6 billion 200 million increased interest-based liabilities and principals. What's the point of my story? If at this rate we went into debt on any basis and for any reason, then we'd have the next few facts. The budget deficit for 2003 basically consisted of about half of the expenditure on this basis, on the basis of interest or on the basis of principals, namely, 23 billion 956 million dinars. We now have the participation of these costs or expenditures in the budget based on principals and interest rates 30 billion 151 million in total or around 65%. Please, at this rate, we are going to go to this point that in 2004, given all the parameters that I was talking about, we are going to come to the conclusion that the total budget deficit is actually made up of these two things, of interest or obligation based on principals, however much we can talk about having favourable conditions in taking these loans, especially from the international community. Here I have to ask an indiscreet question, given that there is no television, I would ask Mr. Djelic to explain to me what actually happened here, how in these two months we got to this data that I was talking about, and how did we increase our interest-based obligations in 2003? The only answer I could find, I don't think it's right, is that in the last few months, we've actually had some kind of funding based on the primary emissions from the National Bank of Serbia, or we've had short-term borrowings with commercial banks, and domestic and foreign ones, from which we've financed some budget holes in the previous three months; given how much we resisted that fact, we haven't had an even or at least adequate budget charge in this past time. We'll probably get answers to those questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27810	Are you using the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27811	Yeah, I'll use the other ten minutes. In this regard, I would remind all of you, fellow MPs, and Minister Djelic, who told us about this in December 2002, parts of the memos on the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, 2004 and 2005, about an economic policy that is important and as a strategy, but also as a mechanism that is being implemented to ensure that both the full budget and the economy are revived, if possible, so that budget users can carry out their commitments at a higher level. Now, you see, there's a perfectly correct statement that our economy is also in transition, but also in a kind of reconstruction, and that's true. We have a transition, but at the same time we need to reconstruct an economy that is significantly damaged, due to NATO bombing to a good extent and destroyed. It's a hard job, especially considering that the international community, however much we say it wants to help us, has no hearing at all about our demands, our lawsuit to The Hague court, the international one, based on the war damage compensation for aggression, or the bombing we had in 1999. My colleague Milka objected to this, and I remind you, a group of G-17 economists have found that only direct costs, namely direct damage based on NATO bombings are about $30 billion. Please, it's all involved in the possible future commitment of this country. We read "News" the other day, gentlemen who are in charge of talks with the NATO Pact and with the "partnership for Peace" have suggested something that... (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: Why didn't you say Milosevic? )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27812	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn and to listen to the speaker, I ask all MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and without comment from the bench. The warning applies to all MPs, together we want to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27813	Don't be nervous, I just want to draw your attention to several economic parameters that affect the overall projections of economic development in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005. So, I'm just talking about facts and I didn't want to hurt anyone. It is true that there is a requirement on our part or at least an initiative that the NATO Pact influences the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, to give up their demands based on war damage from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, if you will, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro or even more precisely, Serbia, we are required to waive our war damage claim of 30 billion. Yes, that's all, one of three conditions for our country's eventual entry into "partnership for peace". In particular, NATO has three conditions -- capture Mladic and the Vukovar group; disown the request before The Hague court for war damage compensation; and, reorganise the army. This third is not a dispute. It's hard first, and the second one's particularly controversial. We wouldn't have had a story about the budget deficit if we had at least a little understanding from the international community on that basis. Did they bomb us? They did. Did they destroy our economic capacity? They did. Have our infrastructure been destroyed? Do we know what it is: $30 billion and why don't we make that request more energetic in front of the international community, at least at this point? For me, it's controversial. Why are we now going to have to take new international loans to finance our budget deficit, and we have this reality that I was talking about? Next, I'll be back. I'm not going back to that subject. I'm going back to the memo. Why there was a reduction in capital investment in the budget rebalancing of 2003, when it was said in the memorandum that overcoming this problem of transition and reconstruction of the economy in terms of capital investments and in the budget and those financed by foreign savings, i.e. so-called direct investments. What have we done in this budget proposal to reduce some capital investments and in fact reduce the chance of reviving the economy? Furthermore, the initial increase in the number of unemployed based on transition should also be resolved on this budget. We objectively have an increase in the number of unemployed people, we have an increase in the number of people who cannot live out of their earnings. Your minister, from your government, is very correct: 800.00 people in this country have received below 4,500 dinars and another 800,000 people have received below 5,000 dinars. That's 1,600,000, ladies and gentlemen, adults who have nothing to live on. We do not dispute the need for the economy to be in transition, to privatize, but they must be taken into account in a way that brings the economy back to life first, because if we do not, we are free of all these stories. For free and support of the international community, we are free of political consensus on the fight against crime, there is no people to live on, and that is the key issue! Will we provide him with increased employment in 2003 or vice versa? If there are no capital investments, there is no increased employment in these conditions! Two basic structural indicators in the economy are sustainable macroeconomic stability, which depends on two factors, the balance of payments deficit, what it is and what it is, and this budget deficit. Please, in 2003, we imported $6,200,000 of some goods, with only $2,200,000 being exported. Four billion dollars is a budget, i.e. foreign trade imbalance or deficit. What country can stand this size? The previous SFRY imported six billion dollars annually, but it exported nearly $5.5 billion and did not have such a terrible budget deficit. This reflects this structure, as the World Bank simply says that the limit of the deficit is 7% compared to the gross national product that is being achieved. We are now designing 10 to 12% in 2003, 2004 and 2005, which means we will not have an export-oriented economy in those three years, capable of exporting to the world market. We don't have any incentive to export here. If someone tells me that it is not true, and it is true, however, in the Agrarian budget there is one item of 450 million dinars that stimulates exports to agriculture, and I know that this refers to meat exports to the European Community, that is to say, some of the advances needed in the slaughter of cattle, but 450 million, ladies and gentlemen, is seven and a few million euros in these same money cannot be seriously encouraged by any export, not even in agriculture, or even in that slaughterhouse industry. So that's a fact. The only solution -- since a country that does this can't simply service debts, it has to find a mechanism, whether it's an increase in course or some kind of stimulation -- is an export-oriented economy. She has to work and export, not have the opposite tendency, that our peasants produce milk more than ever, but throw it more than ever, because the state imports milk! Who has the right in this country to take foreign exchanges from citizens, from those straws where there are four billion euros, spend on something that we have surpluses in this country, on importing milk, and thereby increasing incentives or premiums for milk, but which milk, for which we throw. Do we need to import milk and many other food products, and in the 2003 development strategy, we say that agriculture is one of the priorities? Is it possible that such a priority has been underestimated to this extent that it seems better not to be declared a priority in the development strategy than it has been declared! So, if we've set things up now so that we'll do this foreign trade in the future and that imports at all -- the import regime is in our hands, in Serbia, the federal administration of customs, many ministries that have jurisdiction over this will now be with functions in our ministries -- let us no longer, Mr. Prime Minister, importing what we have ourselves extra, and thus destroying domestic production!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27814	The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27815	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, respected ministers and Prime Minister, said in an opening statement that this is the continuity budget, as Minister Djelic reiterated, and now it is an opportunity to see what has brought this continuity since November, December when we adopted the 2003 budget, which has been done so far. For starters, I'm going to remind the DSS of that time: so, again, for the sake of continuity, that attitude hasn't changed, we were talking about macroeconomic parameters then, and above all, about the gross social product, we said that it was oversupply. The government's 2005 memo provided an increase in the gross social output of 5% for 2003, 2004 and 2005. A year. We said it was unrealistic. According to our estimates and estimates, this could not be achieved when considering the state of our economy and the possibility of real growth. Now, in March, the government acknowledges that 5% growth is impossible. There is an increase of 3.5% to 4.5%, and in some places only 3.5% -- it is Prime Minister Zivkovic's opening speech during his election. The question is whether a new memorandum should be given now, i.e. to change all the parameters stemming from GDP, for 2003, 2004 and 2005. We do not argue that the problem of planning a gross social product and its growth is one of the more difficult tasks for each government, but still we cannot go to the older practice that we need so much growth to settle all the costs and all the expenditures we have planned. So it has to start from real parameters, and then plan the expenses accordingly. Also, we pointed to a high deficit in our budget. That deficit is now increasing, and I'm going to talk about it a little later. We had a grudge over some items we thought could be less. Some of it's done. Also, we also had concerns about the political part of the budget, about specific programmes that have not been defined enough and have not been submitted to the Assembly for adoption. All of these are things that can be held against the current budget rebalance, possibly, except for this political part, because again, I say that the GDP assessment was not correct. Is it going to be right for the next period - hard, because if we have such a change in three months, what can we expect by the end of the year! The conjuncture doesn't suit us! We have a decline in industrial production, and possibly a slightly better situation in the foreign trade. Unemployment is also increasing, and all of these are the things that are asking us to plan our further growth realistically, further development and to tell the citizens. The story of an increase in standards is not realistic and cannot be said, as Prime Minister Zivkovic said, that a standard increase is planned. It's an unreal increase in standards, and it has to be told to the citizens! When it comes to budget levels, which again stems from GDP and price growth, an interesting line is given in budget reasoning; it says, "As macroeconomic growth is revised lower and inflation is higher, nominal growth of income types that are dominantly linked to these two parameters, which account for a large part of the total income, will be approximately at the previously planned level." That's something we didn't expect in the earlier budgets. Now that's come along and it reminds me a little bit of a socialist time. So we have two parameters, they're both bad in themselves, but the budget stays the same, so my God, nothing changes. That's impossible. Public spending was large and per previous budget, meaning the 2003 budget. It is among the highest among all transition countries and it is one of the worst of our parameters, when compared to other countries in transition. This was nicely shown by the government in the 2003, 2004 and 2005 budget memorandum. That deficit is now growing. It is growing and safe when all public contributions are taken, i.e. when the current budget of the Republic is taken from 318.7 billion dinars, all five funds of 236.1 billion dinars and the budgets of municipalities, and when it is placed in relation to the estimated gross social product, ranging from 1.226 to 1.228 billion dinars, then it is seen that it exceeds 50% of the gross social product, which is the worst parameter of all our macroeconomic parameters and is very worrying. We have proposed, if you remember, the adoption of the 2003 Budget Law, some amendments that went towards reducing the deficits on the revenue side and towards reducing expenditure on the other side, and by eight to 10 billion dinars; although some estimates were already being made with savings of up to 20 billion dinars, first of all, paragraph 42 in the use of services and goods: 21.2 billion -- particularly travel costs, contracts-based services, specialised services; then, paragraph 48 other expenditures: 3.6 billion -- fines for the resolution of courts and judicial bodies, grants to NGOs and others; paragraph 51 basic funds - 13.5 billion dinar; paragraph 45 of the subsidy - 29.8 billion dinar. It wasn't adopted then, and in most cases there is no saving. On the other hand, the structure of the deficit, which remained the same, nominally the same of 46.9 billion dinars, has changed, and that is also a very strange fact, along with that information on the undoing of the impact of the estimated growth, the decline in the growth of the social product and the increase in inflation. It's a surplus from one to the other. On condition, it is good that deficit budget financing based on privatisation sources is reduced from 15.3 to 12.5 billion dinars, because they are grants. Credits are the same. Domestic duties have fallen, which is understandable, given the conjuncture in the economy. It's interesting whether it can be applied -- what we liked -- that's what we came up with, that donations will grow from 9.5 to 14.9 billion dinars. When this very big increase is analysed, the question arises is whether there are any political elements there so that we can plan such a huge increase in donations. When it comes to expenditure on interest and principal payments, it means 12.2 billion dinars plus 17.5, which is a total of 29.7 billion dinars according to new loans that will go to cover the deficit, it shows that interest on loans from earlier periods is equal to new loans that we will get to cover the budget deficit, which is certainly not good again. These data are unequivocally shown by the overly high and uncontrollable borrowing of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia in conditions where the planned growth of the gross social product will obviously not be achieved. There are also some accepted DSS proposals, which we have made in our amendments. This is a reduction in the current reserve, from 4.4 to 2.8 billion dinars; a reduction in expenditure based on fines; a reduction in fines planned for court and judicial decisions, that is, position 483 etc. On the side of the DSS's income, it also pointed to the pre-named participation of privatisation revenues. They are now reduced from 15.3 to 12.5 billion dinars. The DSS has also criticised some of the procedures in these conditions in which we live today, in emergency conditions, when it comes to the budget. There can be an analysis and I would like to ask how much emergency and length of that situation will affect budget expenditure?- I'm sorry. The explanation says, on the bulky side of the budget, that the savings achieved by taking over from the federal level through a December downsizing of the number of employees will be used to increase security expenditure during the duration of the state of emergency. Again, the question arises whether these funds were planned in December for an emergency, which unfortunately came for all known reasons in March. How could this be planned in December when a federal budget was made and it was known that there would be a transfer of functions from the level of the common state to the level of the Republic. Surely it should be kept in mind that in these conditions, the component of the emergency costs also has its own budgetary reflection. Some items in the budget rebalancing, primarily related to what remains in the budget, will not be entered with much detail in these changes, which occurred after the transfer of competence from the level of the common state to the level of the Republic, we will remain on what is the essence of the Republic of Serbia's budget, meaning at that level of 271.9 billion dinar and other DSS MPs will talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27816	This concludes the work in the morning and continues the session at 15.00 hours. The president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform, MP Bojan Pajtic, also has an application for the word. That's how we start work this afternoon. [[After break - 15.45]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work today's session in the afternoon. Please, by inserting the cards into the MPs' units, let's determine if we have a quorum to work with. Here you go. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We continue in the order of Members of the People's Parliaments and the application for a word in the main review of the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27818	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the main motive of the republic's budget is to provide fiscal coverage for what was the historic job of establishing a community of Serbia-Montenegro states. The total amount of revenue envisioned by the projected budget is 271 billion, so 57 billion more than was foreseen by the budget adopted several months ago, which is relatively and even slightly more than the scope of the respective ministries of the Government of Serbia, following the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, that is, after the adoption of the Ministry Act. The trend that follows this budget rebalance also existed in the Republic of Serbia's budget, so the trend in wage stability and pensions. This budget does not deprive anyone of the rights provided for by the previous version of the budget, i.e. in no way reduces those rights, but rather ensures the stability and security of these revenues, i.e. ensuring that they remain in the same scope as was provided for in the budget itself. This bill also provides for the control of the financial resources that the Republic of Serbia gives to the federal state. The control is carried out directly, by financing the powers through the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, according to the size of the social product, about 93% of the funds provided for federal functions are provided from the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The expenditure to be given for the functioning of the joint bodies and the organisations are executed through the Republic of Serbia's Treasury. What we have already mentioned, which is unusually important, is that, for the first time in 50 years, the citizens of Serbia will know exactly where each individual taxpayers' dinar is going, or to what purposes that money will be spent, depending on what positions are in the federal state, or the community of states, provided for by these and previously adopted laws. The new revenues made by the Republic of Serbia are not only related to the part that was paid, so that part of the revenues from the sales tax and excise tax, which was otherwise given to the federal state. So, in addition to these funds belonging to the Republic of Serbia, which was granted to the federal state, today the Republic of Serbia is also gaining funds that it did not have. So, customs funds, we have noted that through customs supervision, practically instruments, and serious instruments, and macroeconomic policies and fiscal policies, are being returned, or given to the Republic of Serbia, which is unusually important. Then, consular fees and other revenues also belong to the Republic of Serbia and belonged to the original Federation. In this regard, we can express our satisfaction that the funds intended for the functioning of the federal authorities and organisations will be able to be provided. This bill, i.e. the rebalancing proposal, is also accompanied by the rationalisation of the administrative apparatus. So in addition to those officers who, through severance, practically stopped working in federal authorities and organizations, about 3,400 employees who had nothing to do with these federal authorities or who had no serious job, were unable to do full-time work on their jobs, disbursed the administrative apparatus of the state through severance. So 27 different organizations stopped exist. The rationalisation is also seen through the accumulation of certain administrative, i.e. certain administrative authorities, the accumulation of ministries through services, bodies, organisations that have compatible activities, i.e. which have functioned at a federal level and which are now, by adopting the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, the Law on Ministries, are associated with individual ministries in the Republic Government. What we certainly won't and shouldn't doubt is that this revenue projection will be achieved, as has been achieved in 2002. There was also real growth, both because inflation was less than projected, and because of the strong action of curbing the grey economy, as well as the real rise in social product, i.e. the real increase in citizens' income. It is unusually important to point out, compared to those items that are not touched, items that change. These are items that define funds for police of 1.5 billion dinars and for prisons of some 400 million dinars. It is unusually important to adopt and vote for the budget for these reasons during the action to combat organised crime, during the fight for the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia. The DOS parliamentary group -- Serbia's Reform -- will vote for the budget rebalance. Not only because we are programmed to function in the common state, but also because we believe that the rebalancing that provides increased funds, at this point, for the militia and prisons, is fundamentally our political, but also our civic obligation, because we are convinced that those who vote against this rebalancing today are actually voting not only against the military and the police, but also against their people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27819	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27820	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the budget that we adopted in December 2002 for this year, should be increased by 20% of the excise revenue and 18% of the turnover tax, which so far went directly to the federal budget, of course, increased even for customs duties and fees for the use of airspace -- should in principle stem from the previous budget, the one we adopted for 2002, increased for inflation and growth of gross national income. These are some basic rules, how revenue should grow and that state revenue should be distributed. There's a lot of that deviation. In fact, this is about the mechanical establishment of government and the dictatorship of non-species quasi-politicalism over the economy, with an unscienceally and incorrectly inaugurated state position in Serbia, in economic affairs. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia is increasingly becoming a budgetary, credit, humane and other form of direct achievement of the state line, a new form of command economy. Based on the new ideology of measures and results of this government, Serbia has been impaled by those external factors, and perhaps it is better to say countries that, destroying everything in front of them, also unscathed civilization values and historical fluids of the Serbian people, Serbian countries and Serbian states. We separate large budgets, given this rebalancing, for the functions of the community, and we don't even know what their economic and political meaning is, which is their long-term effect, or how much they really cost! The budget of each country generally manifests a multitude of factors, especially those factors that are currently current, at this economic and political moment. In the case of Serbia, there are no serious and professional analyses and actual flows, neither economically nor politically, and they do not contain the sparks of real changes to the better. The practice of forced budgetary control continues, and the ruling policy lightly and without responsibility tells us that the latest developments in the internal and international environment affect the level of investment and the rate of growth of the domestic gross product, and it actually decreases to 3.5% to 4.5% compared to the planned one. The SRS estimates that this rebalancing of the budget gives us a further economic downturn, a further decline in production, and that this reduced planned growth of the gross social product is based on the kind of agriculture, whose results depend more and more on climate conditions. We could charge Minister Veselinov with genocide against those singing birds. It is also estimated that with the planned growth of the gross social product there is no transition, there is no successful reforms, capital growth and market development. Scientists estimate that if the economy and standard were to recover, at a rate of 10% a year, our journey into a better past, which we remember, instead of 15 would be reduced to seven to eight years. The budget rebalancing envisions a total revenue of 271,790,100, which is about 57,190,000,000 more than the revenues set out in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. All well-intentioned and methodologically consistent scientific assessments can explicitly conclude that there is no room for such a budgetary audit. If we respect the fact that all taxes in democratic and economic terms are part of national income, not gross social product, then there must be no hiding truth. At the same time, all taxes are part of the profits. Respecting this fact, then the government and the government's work of MPs of this assembly should be made clear that tax interventions should not dampen the potential of accumulating the economy. The government doesn't seem to see, or wants to see, or doesn't know that there is no other way to democracy, except for the ability to accumulate and earn development. Of course, there goes the growth of citizens' income. Donations and loans won't be able to replace these basics of the development economy. The proposed tax press of the government's procedures, more could be said to be kidnapping, or available, according to our party, about four-fifths of the national income, and such economic foundations do not have any dictatorships in the world. In our opinion, the budget should be projected at a total of 199.468,800,000 dinars, especially as a steady increase in external trade deficits, as well as a decline in purchasing power by the domestic consumer. It also needs to be taken into account the rise in unemployment, caused by chaotic privatisation. Looking at the expenditure side of the budget, we notice that under the economic classification of 413 you were planning fees for fees in kind, as part of the staff expenditure, totalling around 1.480,000,000, and I'm sorry that the minister is now not here to explain to me what fees are in nature, because we remember that in 2001 and how he attacked any detachments from the budget, on this basis, and that he said that there will be no more half-carveds, no more clothes, I don't know what he meant under those fees, but here, we see them here again in certain items. With each ministry, we have fees in nature, and I certainly know that the halves continue to divide and must be divided when the people are poor. Travel costs are planned totalling 1.588,000,000 dinars, and when the budget was adopted in December, we found here, and all MPs criticised the opposition for this wasteful attitude of the government towards budgets, do we not know where it travels and what reason it travels? Services under the contract are as much as 4.209.000,000, and it is found here that there are extra employees, the minister told us earlier that those from the federal administration have voluntarily broken down the employment relationship and received those six average personal incomes, around 1,000 euros. I don't think anyone did it voluntarily! He simply had no other way out! When it comes to these services under contract, we seem to have forgotten that at the last session we passed the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, where we have been correcting the payment of contributions based on the work contract. Then I don't see why these people from the federal administration didn't get involved in a permanent working relationship, but they're additionally hiring some new people to do some professional work. Here, in the National Assembly, we can notice every day a dozen new faces, scattered uncles, sons, to see that they've started a working relationship, or they're working on a work contract. Specialized services amount to about 13,000,000 dinars. (President: Are you using for the next 10 minutes? Well, I'm not Mr. Pitiæ, he can speak at most between five and eight minutes. So the specialized services are about 13,000,000, so we have an expert government. It is truly incomprehensible that every ministry has to hire experts, experts from some area, to make this kind of money stand out, and it has a whole state apparatus at its disposal. Reserve funds -- they're planned for 25,000,000,000, and at the same time we have a deficit. And please, those who understand themselves in finance claim (I asked myself) that the budget that has the planned deficit cannot have a budget reserve on the dissipated side. The repayments from the principal of loans here under economic classification 61, domestic lenders about 17.618,000,000, something more, and foreign increditors around 250,000, can we expect? If we look at the budget synthesis since 2001, we say, we see that it is constantly increasing, because new loans are constantly being taken, we wonder in a few years, will our entire budget go to only one piece of interest and one piece of capital, or will we have to finance something else from that budget? Of course, we are told in reason that the rebalancing was necessary because the Charter was passed, because the Charter Law was passed, which we have a new state union, is a different regulation of Member States' relations, and the Republic of Serbia needs to provide funding totalling 38,219,000,000, which is about 93.3% of the total funds, and the Republic of Montenegro 6.7% of the total funds, which I have no objection to. They say it depends on how much the Member State participates in the gross social product, but then so should these political opportunities and the political influence of the two Member States should be regulated, not as you agreed to it on the basis of the Charter. Furthermore, it is clear that the Budget Law had to be rebalanced because of all this, but the reason is that the planned GDP growth rate from 5% was reduced to a level of 3.5 to 4%, that the dominant source of GDP growth must be a component of domestic consumption and that prices are expected to rise from 9 to 11%. That's what they planned last year, so it came to 30%. It's probably already imputed here. It is said that the rise in oil prices and intensification of dollars will inevitably lead to "importing" foreign inflation, there counting on aggression on Iraq, which in some ways is unthinkable, because we remember, when there was an aggression in Yugoslavia, that the dollar then fell to 1.4, so it can be expected that even now the dollar is falling. How is it possible that a country that is at war strengthens its currency? I guess it's logical that it falls, and we know that the Japanese, as their economy depends solely on the value of the dollar, in these situations they buy live money from America to protect their economy. This estimate that the dollar will grow and affect our budget is simply unacceptable. I don't even know why we're bonding with the dollar and the United States and what's going on with them, when we've already defined that we're looking at all this in our economy relative to the euro. On the bulky side of the budget, the proponent argues, savings achieved by taking over from the federal level, and there is no savings, are said to have mostly been incurred through a December reduction in the number of employees, that they will be used for increased security expenditure, which we have had, during the duration of the state of emergency. How much does this emergency cost us, we'll see that when we adopt the final bill?- I'm sorry. Then don't tell me that the citizens of Serbia are absolutely not affected by the state of emergency, because it beats them directly in the pocket! It's something that might hit them the most! The redistribution of funds was made in the context of the expenditure on fees in nature, social contributions to employees, employees' fees and travel expenses, because in the implementation of the budget for the first two months of this year, the promoter said, the need for all direct and indirect budget beneficiaries to have expenditure for these purposes, meaning increased expenditure, so that there was a rebalancing from one item to another, or from one cont to another. It is indisputable that these agencies and commissions that have been formed by different laws cost us very much. These were the jobs carried out by the authorities of the administration, i.e. the Ministry of Communications Bureau cost us 264 million; BIA about two billion; Agency for the Promotion of State Administration eight million, Agency for Insurance of Banks, Rehabilitation and Elimination of Banks 450 million; Commission for Charters of 45 million; Agency for Tobacco Even 13 million, etc. The Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, which is otherwise profitable and so does business, because it buys, say, live cattle, now that there's a market disturbance of 50 dinars and waits when it's going to be dumped on the market and sold at 70 or 80 dinars, costs us 657 million. It is indicative that the Ministry of Agriculture has been designated 50 million to improve legislation and comply with the European Union, and there is no, gentlemen, any legislative proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, here is the third year. I'd really like to know that there's Minister Vesenov here to tell me what he's spending this money on and when he's going to do some legal project that's going to lead to a promotion of agriculture! I've singled out the Ministry of Science as a department that spends as much as three billion on specialized services. All in all, we think this is an extremely wasteful budget!- I'm sorry. The SRS MPs will not vote in favour of the proposed budget rebalancing, because, above all, we consider it unrealistic and warn that it is the biggest robbery attempt since the DOS came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27821	Are any of the other authorised presidents or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. We are moving on to a debate in order of the MPs. A total of 19 MPs have been reported for debate in principle, which makes it a total of 124 minutes available to these MPs; the first to be reported for the word is MP Velimir Simonovic, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27822	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the budget, even if it's rebalancing, then you can talk for a very long time, but I'm just going to draw the government's attention to one thing. When we were making a budget in November for 2003, then I noticed that Mr Djelic took down 70 million for university education compared to 2002. When I pointed out that it was just amazing, because it wasn't picking up anything and there wasn't any inflation, then at least he had to give what he gave in 2002. His explanation was that university professors could earn money in some other way, so he'll manage. But the other day on the Finance Committee, I asked Mr Djelic if he might have been able to find in this rebalancing, although I understand all the difficulties of the government over the budget, to possibly increase something for university education and for the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. He said he was able to make more money. That question of mine has a deep meaning, I'll tell you why. I've got an envelope here, and it's a pay-out list from a Technical Faculty of Belgrade University. It's a regular teacher with 32 years of employment, with 130 students he deals with this year, and his salary, believe it or not, is 15,135 dinars. There's an emergency professor somewhere between 12 and 13 grand, a doctor between 11 and 12 grand, and assistants can't make it to 10,000. Ladies and gentlemen, with such pay, you can't make a good university. That's off. Now let's see if it's important for this country to have a good university. I don't want to talk now, I've had many times before to talk, but let's get into the reform of the university, but seriously reform, see if all the colleges we have in Serbia, if all these teachers are necessary, if we're going to do one serious reform, and then make what's left and what needs to be done, that we can really do decently, live out of it and deal with what needs to be done! What do these little salaries mean, please? They mean that university teachers have to do other things to survive, and what they have to do, it doesn't have anything to do with scientific work, it has nothing to do with professional work. They have to do some side jobs, and that's inadmissible. University teachers have to deal primarily with science and teaching, it's their primary job and it's very important for every society and every country. Here's so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27823	The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by MP Nabojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that this budget rebalancing Mr. Minister has accepted and adopted some criticism that the SRS has put on the draft budget bill for 2003, but I also see that with one wasteful practice, in this bill, it has not given up. The first item that falls into this budget is the budget reserve, and we all know that the 2003 budget is in deficit, so the question is whether it makes any sense to put one of these items on the spending side of the budget! Furthermore, that the budget is wasteful is seen in certain items as spending money; so for the president of the Republic of Serbia we do not have, here we are already entering the fourth month of this year, we are giving out money for that function, and under the term of the machine 80 million dinars. However, in the (first) bill, there were ten million more (90m, and now 80m), so the question arises what will our "executor" of the duty of the president of the Republic of Serbia to buy for the money. The entire government of the Republic of Serbia, for example, is getting five million dinars for machines, and Natasa Micic is 80 million! For that money he can buy a few tanks even, so to complete the folklore of the emergency, as he now comes to the sessions he can come to the tanks. With the crazy spending...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27825	I ask you, MPs, to set your own measure of respect for the Rules of Procedure in the field of budgetary rebalancing; I warn you of the obligation that we all share when it comes to respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27826	Is it a crime for a MP to ask what Natasa Micic will spend 80 million dinars on?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27827	National MP, you speak even when you mention it, then it is your obligation to say either the National Assembly President Natasa Micic or V.D. Serbian President Natasa Micic and it is an obligation, left to you to choose which of these two functions to use in the speech. It would be logical to speak -- the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Micic, and I warn you of the need to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27828	I'm talking about the position of President of the Republic of Serbia, but I can see that you don't understand, so I'm not going to explain myself to you anymore. Furthermore, it continues with one practice, to say, suspicious spending of money, which are services under contract and specialized services. Services under contract, according to budget rebalancing, are about 2,830,000,000, and specialised services amounting to over 5 billion dinars for Serbia, not to count about half a billion dinars for the so-called federal state. The Minister for Science, Technology and Development and its Ministry receive 3,100,000 dinars, and when the 2003 Budget Law was discussed, Mr. Minister said the money was used for the entire government, for scientific works, publications and research. Now the question is, what about the other two billion that the rest of the ministries are getting? Isn't that what Mr. Science and Development Minister does for the entire government, and now the rest of the ministry needs two billion dinars! Are you getting anything, Mr. Shabby, any favors from them? You don't win, so why are you giving money?- I'm sorry. These are all parameters that raise certain doubts about whether one particular service is paid twice. First by the government or some resolute ministry, then by the Ministry of Science and Development. It continues with the practice of establishing various, let's say, quasi-ministers that are formed into agencies. Now we have the Agency for the Promotion of State Administration, I don't know what the Ministry of Local Self-Government and State Administration will do; we have the Agency for Deposit Insurance, Rehabilitation, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, it's not a small item in the budget it gets; so the Agency for Tobacco, although the Law has not yet entered into force; the Public Procurement Administration; the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion, and the question is what we need Pitic; then, we have the Energy Efficiency Agency, so the question is what does the Minister of Energy and Mining need for us, etc. When it comes to the co-ordination body of Nebojka Covic, I see that this bill on amending and supplementing the Budget Law does not respect the basic 2003 Budget Law, because certain provisions in Article 14 of this Law have already been violated. Under the law, and this is only a continuation of the law, Nebojsa Covic should be given about 1,370,000,000, and here very fine, although the pound must be sought, it is now given 1,854,000 dinars. Why would Nebojsa Covic have so much money? Another item in the budget, which is Mr. Dragan Vesenov, his 50,000 dinars, which he receives year after year for harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation. The one who calls us fascists made a genocide on the singing birds, and it's fortunate that these 50,000 don't use to write laws, because in any case, it would also cause the farmers' genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27829	The time you have spent on the MP is 6 minutes, and 35 seconds has been spent on dialogue, it has not been added to you in the time available to the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by a national MP, Emilija Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27830	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, by adopting the Constitutional Charter and the Law on its implementation of the expenditures of the Republic of Serbia's 2003 budget, have been increased for the funds of transfers to the state community of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as for the financing of bodies and organisations that have become from the federal level bodies and organisations of the Republic. Within the meaning of Article 29. The budget system law is balanced through the supplementary budget. The revenue of the budget has been increased by 57.190 billion dinars, and as we said when the Budget Law was adopted, the basic nature of the budget for this year is that general spending will increase nominally and realisticly compared to 2002. This is the survival budget, huge funds will be spent on social needs. I would refer to the structure of the budget revenues they make: the income tax of citizens with 18.82%, the corporate profit tax of 1.40%, the sales tax 39.56%, excise taxes 20.56%, customs duties and other entry taxes 8.34%, financial transactions tax 1.28%, taxes, fees and other incomes with 6%. The basic characteristics of budget revenues, including the tax system, remain unchanged: 60.12% of income makes tax on transport and excise duty, etc. Taxation of consumers, and if you add customs, that would be 68.46%, and 18.82% are income from linear taxation of citizens' income, where the principal makes taxes on employee earnings, which in itself speaks enough. The question arises whether this type of revenue will be realised if we know what our economy, capacity employment and employment is in. It is once said that the government is not the one that drives the economy, but one thing is certain: that the government, and also the budget, should create an environment for the work of the economy. Our businessmen have been pointing to the problem of production and export incentives in recent years, always getting the answer that there is no money in the budget. In this context, funds should be increased in the Development Fund, if it is known to lend small and medium-sized enterprises, which envision 27.8m euros, financing incentives for exports, lending and resuscitation of production, grants. It should be noted that interest on these loans provided by the Fund is more favourable than bank interest on an annual basis, but this is even more significant than in the West. The great lack of incentive for our economy and exports is that we are not yet taking a definitive view of our economic policy. The reality is, and this is confirmed in the context of the proposal, that the growth of gross social product and economic investment will be lower than planned in 2003. It was confirmed in his interview by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, when he said it was unrealistic to expect two billion dollars of foreign direct investment to enter Serbia this year. That this thus confirms the fact that from 1997 to today, the SRJ has entered 1.8 billion euros in foreign direct investment, some less than half a billion euros last year, so that the issue of growth in the economy is raised, and this certainly affects the achievement of the estimated revenues, including whether the commitments from the budget, which are defined by law, will be paid in time from real sources. The budget deficit remains the same only changes the structure of the funds under its coverage. Privatisation funds are being reduced, and this is expected if privatisation is known, because it is going slowly, and the issue of return of property to the original owners is also being raised. Donations are increasing in the structure of the deficit coverage, but they depend on the international community, which is certainly conditioned by co-operation with The Hague tribunal, as well as foreign loans that have their own price; I fear we are taking expensive foreign credits to cover the deficit, and we are using that money to pay interest on such loans. Finally, if funding of the budget deficit comes from domestic borrowings, from loans to the National Bank of Serbia and the business banks, this could lead to increased inflation flows, which could also call into question the time of reconciliation from real sources. So, the budget deficit remains at an existing level, and you predict its participation in the social product to be slightly less, and to reduce the participation of the total public consumption of the social product. The question is, how does this happen if the growth of the social product is even lower than expected, if we know that 3.5 to 4.5% of the increase in social product is now foreseen. Only one part of the gray economy remains to be transferred to a normal legal economy, which is why the tax administration is in charge, and time will show whether it will achieve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27831	The word is a folk letter from Emilija Krstic, followed by Parliament MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27832	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the honourable representative of the government, since I see that only one representative of the government, the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote against the amendment and addition of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, but it is certainly not because it does not care about the citizens of Serbia or as Mr Pajtic said, which is against the citizens of Serbia, but because of this amendment and supplementary proposal, as well as the budget plan we adopted last year, the Democratic Party of Serbia does not actually see any concern for the citizens of Serbia, which so rhetorically this majority in this House boasts. In fact, the Assembly as the highest home in this country should control the implementation of government policy as executive authorities, not only through the adoption of the budget plan for next year, but also through reports on budget implementation, but also through government reports, which have never come to this House before. The government is obliged to submit a report to the National Assembly once a year, however, it has not done it a single time to this day. Reports, which consider and adopt individual assembly committees, should nevertheless come to the National Assembly as individual reports, but also as a full government report. From this we would see what the government's policy is on the economic, economic, economic, social plan and how the government implements what this assembly votes to it. The budget rebalance, i.e. the draft amending and supplementing the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, which came to this home as a result of the adoption of the Constitutional Charter of the Serbia-Montenegro Community, only shows us that Serbia will continue to survive, with the help of donations, loans, but very favourable, according to representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which abroad, are domestic. Of course, it remains with an external trade deficit, which will not change, or will not be lower, with less planned privatisation funds, which, due to the absence of economic activities, must go to cover the budget deficits, and they are more and less than the loans provided for also to cover budget deficits and loans from foreign international financial organisations. The fact is that the citizens of Serbia, with the concern of this assembly majority that will adopt this budget, i.e. budget rebalancing, in a way that I assume is the same as in November of last year, will bear the greatest burden of large public expenditures, as was planned last year. This is seen from a large amount in the income plan, which refers to sales tax and excise duties. Half the incomes it needs to give to the economy, because, of course, it does not work as well as the government expects it to. My colleague, Srdjan Petrovic, spoke about the gross social product, about reducing the real growth of the gross social product, and about the impact it is causing, which is the increased involvement of public consumption in the gross social product. Last year, when we adopted the 2003 budget plan, the Democratic Party of Serbia proposed to spend 10 billion dinars, or about eight to ten billion dinars. The fact is that these expenditures can also be reduced, that there is room for certain items concerning specialised services, fines, grants to NGOs, fixed assets, various subsidies, etc. I'll take a few items just to distract and ask some questions, and hopefully I'll get an answer. Not to mention that here on the dissenting side, and the Democratic Party of Serbia has repeated it several times, there are also various special organisations formed by the government's regulation and I won't talk about it. The ministry of state administration and local self-government -- envisioned 381,220,000. The Agency for the Promotion of State Administration 389,241,000. Is it possible that the State Administration Promotion Agency is spending more money than the Ministry of State Administration? The Ministry of Trade and Tourism - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, funds are intended for tourism subsidies of 42 million dinars and 53 million, which is 11 million more, are intended for the Tourist Organisation of Serbia. To justify that the Serbian Tourist Organisation should receive 11m more than tourist centres; let us put aside that tourism is entirely aside from any strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Ministry of Economy and Privatisation of the subsidy to non-financial public enterprises and organisations amounts to 6,930,000,000 dinars. It is explained that subsidies are increased to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, i.e. dedicated equipment producers by 430 million dinars, fixed costs, etc. Does this refer to fiscal cash registers that are spoken of or to what? There's an amount for specialized services, a variety of fees that are really pretty high. The Ministry of Culture and Media - 700,000 dinars is intended for JP RTS. The government's proposal for a law on public information, which needs to come into the process very quickly, is one of the conditions set by the Council of Europe, says in one of its members that media founders cannot be state, local self-government, local autonomy, or any organisation in which the majority of the property is state. What will happen to this amount when this assembly adopts, and it is known that this majority adopts everything the government has to endure, what will happen to this amount after the amendment, or the adoption of a new law? In the same ministry, the funds are projected to be 1,217,000,000 dinars. The institutions of culture about 1,700,000 dinars; the Agency for the Development of Culture 2,994,000 dinars. In the county, only the Zlatibor County has the projected funds of 12 million dinars, and four or five million have mostly districts, some of which have nine million. What criteria did you manage, why the Zlatibor County so much and so much less? Those are some questions and I hope to get an answer. This budget needs to be cut by several billion dinars, thus reducing the deficit. That's the DSS's position. And as I said at the beginning, we will not vote for this amendment and addition of the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27833	There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27834	Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments to the Budget Law are as wasteful, non-domestic and unrealistic as they were in November. There's nothing that's fundamentally changed about relationships and perceptions. It is clear that this is, in some ways, extorted by the Constitutional Charter, but the essence of this budget remains exactly the same. The opposition and the SRS have at least three valid reasons to be satisfied in this regard. One reason is that for only three and a half months, some of our views show correctness in November, when we pointed out that the expected price growth will not be like that, about 9%, now admit it will be 11% and more; also, when we pointed out that GDP growth cannot be 5%, it now goes down to 3.5 to 4.5%, and when we indicated that there will be a further rise in unemployment and decline in production. The second reason we can be satisfied is that this budget is so scattered that, looking at these huge zeroes, anything to touch, we won't be wrong if we criticize. The third reason why we can be satisfied, but we are not and certainly cannot be happy, is that this attitude of public spending towards this country will make Serbia a more difficult situation. It normally doesn't want anyone, not the government or the opposition, but these parameters are so visible and clear that even the layman will realize that by covering this deficit, by privatizing 12.5 billion -- one Sartide gets 1.2 billion dinars, which means that to cover a small part of the 48 billion deficit, you invest ten Sartides -- you kill a substance without talking about whether it's even going to be possible to collect it or to be in public consumption, which is 50% of the gross social product, which is completely unrealistic. We can invest everything in public spending, but what we're gonna do one day when we kill that cow that gives us milk, which is business and production. What happens then when these fees for international loans arrive, which we raise on our behalf and on behalf of all citizens? What happens when the interest and the principal comes, and the production is getting lower and lower? What story we're going to tell then and how we're going to pack it, as we always pack it in November and today -- that it's inevitable, that it has to, that it can't be different. Public spending, no matter how much you give, won't be enough. There will always be someone who will say it's a little, that it's necessary, a hundred reasons. But have we ever experienced a government, a minister, and an explanation of what they've done in rationalization in one of their sectors? I'm from health care. In particular, I'd have a thousand reasons to complain and say that there are small salaries, no money, drugs, etc. But what do I get from it? And today I'm going to say that there is also a huge space for rationalization in healthcare: to save money and transfer businesses, to invest in new small and medium-sized enterprises; we have over 10% of non-medical staff employed in health institutions, masters, officials, who are surpluses, I guarantee, in every medical center. No one's going to get into that problem to solve it. We import expensive appliances and give millions of dinars for their imports for 5-6 patients, as we monitor some worldwide achievements. That can't be good. That's what we need, that's what we need, every country would love to have that. Are our chances of having that, that's the main problem. One day, I'm sure that's why we're going to suffer so badly. That rationalization is an obligation for every minister to carry out, to come here. And our agriculture minister deals with politics. He discusses political parties, crime, discusses everything, just doesn't deal with agriculture; he doesn't argue that peasants throw milk into the ditch, that cattle will be destroyed by peasants because it's not worth it, which is the price of buying pork from 35 dinars, while the production of kilograms is certainly 50 dinars, they say. He doesn't talk about it. So there's a huge space for rationalization. We have to deal with savings, savings. So 50% of public spending will destroy this country. Let's turn to production, turn to how to save, not this corrupt budget to bring, which is far richer societies unsustainable and unreal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27835	The People's Messenger Radojko Petrić has the word, and the next is the Messenger of Arsen Kurjak (Arsen).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27836	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, due to the reorganisation of the SRJ and the adoption of the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, it is normal to rebalance Serbia's budget for this year. However, it is surprising that only three months from the start of the year, a budget rebalance is being carried out for some other purposes, which are not in any connection with the reorganisation of the SRJ. However, in any case, when it comes to the budget, whether it is adopted, rebalancing or when a report on the budget for the previous period is considered, everywhere in the world it is a practice for the promoter, in our case the government, to make a detailed review based on which an extensive debate is being held in parliament. In order to conduct a content debate, in addition to transparency, it is necessary to provide material in good time, so that MPs can study it, carry out consultations on the ground, prepare for the debate and possibly submit amendments. In this case, none of the other conditions are met. The rebalancing exam is untransparent. There's no record of what it's like for the first three months. There is no detailed review of the functions, positions and economic classification for the balance sheet positions for which the rebalancing is carried out. About the fulfillment of that other condition, i.e. The timing of the delivery of the material is a special story. Material, although containing 90 pages, is not delivered to home addresses. It could have taken over the day before yesterday in Belgrade, normally, who was in Belgrade, i.e. yesterday morning before the beginning of the session, and what most MPs did. It is obvious that such actions by the promoter avoid creating conditions for one right and arguments debate and for one critical analysis of issues that are of interest to all citizens in Serbia. The budget review, it means everywhere in the world, is one of the most important issues discussed in parliament. However, it is evident that this treatment does not apply to us. It's like there's no congregation, or it's just a government facade. The government and the majority of DOS should not lose sight that we opposition MPs want an effective work of the Assembly, we want real work, not just work of form. Not taking part in the budget rebalancing of the state-run community's expenditures, Serbia-Montenegro and the federal-level authorities and organisations, I think the rebalancing for other purposes in Serbia is very lacking and incomplete. But let's take the turn. The budget's revenue projection, when adopted at the end of December last year, was based on real GDP growth of 5% and annual inflation of 9%. We now see that these macroeconomic indicators are corrected by reducing the predicted real growth of the gross domestic product from 5 to 3.5 to 4.5%. Now you don't know if it's 3.5 or 4.5%. It's not order size, at least negligible, it had to be specified. Inflation is projected to be up to 13.7% on the annual average instead of 9%. When we look at economic movements in the first three months of this year, the situation is such that basic macroeconomic indicators are much worse than this projection is predicted. It's a long list of unfavourable indicators in the domestic economy. First of all, let's look at production: in January it is less than December production by 21.1%, compared to last year's average by 18.2% and lower than last January's level by 6.2%; February production this year is also less than last year's February production by 1.6%. Let's not forget that production increased by 1.7% compared to 2001 in 2002. Movements in employee earnings show a bad trend. They were less than December 18% in January, the truth in February was corrected by more than 9%. Still, it's worse in trend than it was last year. There is an increase in the supply of finished products, for which there are no customers, no purchase demand, although production has been reduced. All of these are indicators that really the promoter had to take into account when the rebalancing was made. Especially worrying are external trade movements. The external trade deficit continues. He crossed a four-billion-dollar figure last year. The coverage of imports and exports is moving all around 36%. Let us not forget that export coverage of imports to the other eight countries in the transition did not fall below 70%, except for one shorter period in Poland. It is particularly unfavourable that in total imports equipment participates with only 12%. For imports of southern fruit, especially bananas, it seems to be very important for Serbia, we paid $135,000 last year. With all the fronts in mind, it would be logical that the government has proposed through budget rebalancing energy measures to improve the situation in this area. It would be logical to provide additional resources to stimulate exports. I don't want to talk about an unreal exchange rate of dinars here, but I remind you that we have worse results in foreign trade than during the economic blockade and sanctions. We must not be fooled by the statements made by individuals that our balance of payments is balanced thanks to the purchase of foreign exchanges from citizens. Citizens are forced to sell their last foreign exchange savings to survive and pay for basic needs of life. How can we be in charge abroad of covering budget deficits? It's obviously a debt crisis for us, not to say a similar economic breakdown, which occurred recently in Argentina. From 2004 to 2010, we have to pay back $1.12 billion a year to 1.5 billion a year. The World Bank and the IMF are also warning about our problem of duty. There must be more concern for the economy. More incentives in the budget must be made available to increase production and exports. Actually, that's my main focus on budget rebalance. I am pleased that the proposed increase in funding for tourism propaganda abroad is proposed. Starting with the fact that tourism, after agriculture, is our second comparative advantage compared to the exchange with the world, the SPS MPs have proposed to amend, when adopting the budget both for the past and for this year, greater allocations for this purpose. Although late, it's a good thing the government now realized that we were right. What about reforming the state administration and reducing the number of employees in the state administration? Instead of reducing that number, it's increasing! Let's just look at how many different agencies and similar institutions have been established in the last two years. Does this lead to a reduction in public spending? This doesn't give a picture of a thrift, but of a wasteful government! No one disputes the justification to raise funds to fight crime, to increase the means of education and science, and which has been done in the rebalancing process. There had to be a way to provide more funds to stimulate economic development, primarily industrial and agricultural production, as well as more incentive funds for exports. If certain amendments are accepted, the SPS MPs will vote for this rebalancing. Only after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27837	There's a word from the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27838	Indicators in this bill say the government is more in control of the rest of the economy, resulting in a redistribution of poverty rather than an open market economy. Such a draft budget is due to an unincentived macroeconomic and institutional environment. I mean first of all, the course of the dinar, which we have heard from the governors that it will not move for ten years, and inflation, high interest rates and still relatively high taxes of the monopoly structure, and now economic, political and security risks, which must be respected, regardless of which government is in power. In addition, citizens hold only 15% of the resources available at their savings. For the budgetary situation, it is important to bear in mind that four billion dollars remains with the citizens and that there are no moves for them to place that money. I think it's one of the indicators that we've been distracting the government for two and a half years, but the finance ministry hasn't made any more serious move to get that money going. The vast majority of savings in banks are even haystacks; for example, Raiffeisen Banka in Serbia, according to data that could have occurred, collected around 140m euros in foreign exchange savings by autumn 2002, and only 20m euros in loans. The indifference of this money shows the absence of an opportunity to trade on the stock market because these funds are inactive. This means that until domestic investors start investing more, there is no reason for the parties to come here and invest, which is what the drafts of this budget law appear to have taken into account. The number of taxes has been reduced from 270 to 230, and part of the tax burden has been reduced, although the power of taxpayers remains weak. Excessive payload continued to destimulate employment and encourage the non-reporting of employees, retaining the sales of absolute rights (5%) remains anti-market. However, the main problem is that state spending is over 54%, as I calculated, and according to the World Bank of States standards with income per capita of $1,500 should not have state spending more than 20% of the social product. So it's necessary to cut state spending more than two and a half times, and I don't see that the Ministry of Finance and the Government have given some ideas on how to reduce state spending. Since the biggest government expenditures are planned for the army, and since there has been a reform in the army and the army is now being organised on the principle of the Corps, then the financing goes in a different way, and thus the mood in the army has been created to reduce the number of officers and sub-office in the coming months. According to the 1996 Rome Agreement, there were 126,000 military personnel here, in 2000, 78,000, and now the number has been reduced due to increased demobilization. However, it remains the number of officers and officers within the framework of the British Army. That no more budget, with such reforms in the military and organisation on the principle of the Corps, could stand it. That's why I think it would be good if the Treasury had seriously raised the issue of the number of officers in the army. In addition, major expenditures are foreseen for the foreign ministry. It's just amazing that no serious proposal has been made here, but that we still have 98 diplomatic and consular offices. What diplomacy, what foreign policy? It would be good if these ambassadors and economic advisors of the embassy had filed accounts of how many of them opened the economic door to this country abroad, how many made the economic bridges, how many jobs did they do? Word is, there aren't enough people. I'm interested in how many people there were in these embassies who used to be businessmen, who know what contracts are, what is international and commercial law, who read the reports of the Institute of International Politics and Economy, because having 98 embassies, or diplomatic and consular offices, is too much! I think we should have up to 20 embassies. It is a good proposal to explain that there should be "traveling ambassadors", as in Sweden; there should be ambassadors like Sweden, not only traveling ambassadors like Sweden. The strategy in international economic relations needs to be seen. If there's a difficult economic situation in the country, then we don't need so many diplomatic and consular representations at all. It would be good, and I don't think that the Ministry of Finance has started it, that the number of these representations is drastically reduced, so it won't be said that Serbia is funding so much and suffers so much expenditure. In addition, when it comes to the Ministry of the Interior, it is simply amazing that large funds are allocated to the security costs of our offices. If the number of representations is reduced, these costs will be reduced, or at least remain within the interior ministry's framework. NGOs -- it would be good, when it comes to the budget for NGOs, to see what projects these organisations have, what they have offered so far, how many legal solutions they have handled, what a improvement we have from the fact that every year these organisations are asking for as much and as much money, so, given the result of the work, funds should also be determined, not just the existence of an NGO to contribute to the allocation of 400,000 dinars. As far as higher education is concerned, it is simply amazing that the government's programmes do not reduce the number of students. Is it possible to have so many students for occupations that will not be needed in the near future? If a number of people are already wanted to be educated in this number, then it takes them to sign that they won't be looking for the job they're prepared for for for 10 years and then at their risk they go to school for a profession that this society doesn't need. In addition, the Serbian government estimates incomes in Serbia at 1,900 to 2,060 when the full budget, however, estimates it at less than $900 when it negotiates with international funds for obtaining IDA conditions for debt repayment. It would be good to know what the real income is, because it can be calculated easily. The grant and loan policy has come down to funding corrupt and criminalised socialism with money from the International Monetary Fund and tax pay of Western countries, cheap loans or debt write-offs. There were no serious reforms, so we can say that the donations had a negative impact because the assistance that was coming was politically conditioned, not by the success of the reforms, which created a comfortable relationship, that money would arrive independently of the pace of reforms. In addition, in part of the reasoning of this bill, there is talk of rising oil prices, strengthening dollars and expectations, and it would be good to explain how these expectations have been calculated, which is why changes in the price of oil and strengthening dollars are expected. In earlier appearances of Mr. Djelic, we could hear that Joseph Stiglic, the Nobel Prizeor, is the government's advisor to economic issues, so we would do well to find out what he thinks about this draft budget if he's consulted. As far as privatisation is concerned, Mr. Vlahovic said that the money coming from privatisation will go smoothly. We can see from the reasons that the taprivatisation does not take place in what is expected, so we would do well to know what is the difference between the desired effect and what is achieved. This cost reduction, I point out, because the list "Economist" of 17 March, in which Mr Djelic in the Publishing Council noted that 34,000 companies were non-equity, according to the former PDO, in December 2002, which is more than 21% more than a month earlier: unsettled liabilities amount to 71.5 billion dinars, and more than 900,000 people are unemployed. In January, unemployment jumped by 19,000 and it would be good to see what the finance ministry's plan is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27839	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, the next reported for the word is MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in November of last year, when the unrealized 2003 budget was adopted, you would know that after the adoption of what kind of so-called. Constitutional charters, make commitments to finance a new one, let's call it the state community. It is a key issue, and without that amount needed to fund the emerging bodies, so-called The Council of Ministers, how to reach such a projected, terribly high budget for 2003 and without that part of funding. That's absolutely impossible, because as we enter the first quarter of the current 2003, we see that none of what is supposed to be, they like to be called DOS reformers, they planned not to be realized! They were empty promises that were thrown from the congregation pay phone, to distract the public, and to keep them in power as much as possible. Not only is it not true what the minister wrote to us, which he escaped in the meantime, last time he was in the mood for a comic book, and now it's a review of what government wishes are, and wishes and possibilities are not the same. Not only is it not true that the planned growth of the gross social product was 5%, but then Minister Djelic told the speaker that it could be 3.8%. We already doubted that then, because production is not working; the decline in industrial production is growing from month to month, and unemployment is increasing. It is unrealistic to plan, through borrowing, through donation and privatisation, to cover this many budget deficits. For us and for the general public who cannot follow the National Assembly meetings because of the state of emergency, they are still very interesting and subject to the strongest public criticism of the items found in such a projected budget. It is impossible for you to plan this amount for the newly established Ministry of International Economic Relations and that Serbia will finance it in that amount, when what it says the ministry will do clearly overlap, almost identically, with the powers that Goran Pitic has, which I will remind you, is available to 20 million dinars this year to travel around and to allegedly make some arrangements - we see that there is nothing! On the other hand, we must face an item related to the Co-ordination Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and what that committee is doing. Where is the report by the Deputy Prime Minister of Nebojka Covic on the situation in our southern province and on the spending of so many budgets? The amount was increased in the budget division of Serbia, the adopted budget last year for 2003, to 1,850,000 and another 250,000, which are in the divisive for funding so-called. The state community. It is unrealistic to expect that there will be this much tax intervention, for the simple reason that you yourself are faced with this, and the entire tax administration, that taxpayers are not able to pay a tax on sales at such a high rate, although you boasted last year by cutting sales taxes, but only for some of the products. On the other hand, not only will we not have an increase in employees, but we now have almost 350,000 working on black, not reported. The question is, then, how can the smart government and the state solve this problem - by multiple tax cuts and contributions to employees' salaries, which is linked to our criticism of the recently adopted Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, and by facing what are real sources and what are our options. This is how, through the spread of false promises to citizens, above all, those who, as Minister Gordana Matkovic says, have a lower limit not of 4,500 dinars, but unfortunately much lower, we are in a situation that the number of hungry, unemployed and those the current DOS government does not worry at all will be growing. The only way to stop such promises, with unrealistic budget projections and with non-domestic and irrational spending of funds is to go to elections, to establish a new government, which will be much more responsible for its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27841	The People's Messenger Golub Rajic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Dusan Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27842	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the third session of the First Regular National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the government submitted the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2003 budget of the Republic of Serbia in order to ensure the necessary material and other conditions for the functioning of state bodies and organisations throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003 was certainly caused by changes in the constitutional arrangement of Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. by adopting the Constitutional Charter, which has been regulated that the Republic of Serbia is taking over certain federal authorities, such as customs and some inspectorates. Some have stopped working, and some continue to do jobs as the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, which is regulated by the Ministry Act. In line with these amendments and additions to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, funding is provided that functions that generally go to the level of the Republic of Serbia, as well as participation in the financing of the functions of the state union. In line with these amendments, all revenue belonging to the SRJ budget shall be included in the revenue of the Republic's budget. These proposed changes and additions to the 2003 Budget Law have established a total revenue of around 271.8 billion dinars, which is about 57.2 billion dinars above the revenue established by the 2003 Budget Act. The total amount of expenditure is proposed in the amount of 318.7 billion dinars, which is consistent with an increase in revenue of 57.2 billion dinars. What this rebalance was supposed to change, and it didn't, it remained the same amount of about 46.9 billion dinars, that's the budget deficit. True, its coverage is predicted again by privatisation, donation, credit to international financial institutions and domestic debt (from the National Bank of Serbia's loan and the issue of securities of value) of around 6.7 billion dinars. It is seen here that a reduction in privatisation revenue, around 3 billion dinars, is expected, is also reduced and the net domestic debt is projected to increase donation revenues by more than 5 billion, which is probably unrealistic, if there are known how many so far. The planned budget deficit and expenditures of 318.69 billion dinars are a very high fiscal burden for a non-working economy, and even more for the poor population anyway, and especially a budget deficit that would be covered in the way this is proposed. It would be better for privatisation revenues to be real revenue for spending, not for funding, to cover the budget deficit, which should be covered by donations. But will it be as much as suggested here? There's no mention of war damage again, what about it, what's it like, will it be charged and when? Why should we cover the budget deficit with the task of international financial institutions? It's unacceptable for socialists. In our view, it's better for the economy to work, which is unfortunately not so, that it fills the budget without relying on donations, loans and company sales, which leads to an army of unemployed, is also falling into production and even greater social decomposition. The reform model of the budget is inevitably leading to a growing financial and any other subordination and dependence of the economy and the country on favoured foreign corporations and financial institutions with all the consequences of debt submission. In 2003, real growth of gross products and earnings from 3.5% to 4.5% on an annual basis was predicted and 5% was planned, as was 11% inflation, and 9% was planned. Will this provide this revenue projection? I think we should continue with tax discharges, primarily products and services that are the basis of living standards. Tax policy should have a stimulating fact about economy, investment and development, to be a stable factor in public income and expenditure balances and to play a significant role in social policy. In the end, let me tell you, it's a good thing the minister provided us with an explanation of giving guarantees for loans where we see which ones are, but it's not a good thing we're still in debt with grace periods, and some others are going to pay it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27843	The People's MP Dusan Ilic has the word, followed by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27844	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, besides being an accounting-administrative file, budget, and thus its rebalancing, represent the government's policy that Parliament would have to control. Unfortunately, this document that we received a few days ago does not clearly show the government's program. Since we were present today with a very pale and inconclusive appearance of Mr. Zivkovic, who apparently did not have time to go deeper into matter, let's say for understandable reasons, I got the impression that this budget and this proposal represent only a continuation of the government's wandering through the fog that she practically raised herself. Modern budgets, both financially and politically, represent certain instruments, while at the same time being an instrument of economic and social policy. That is why the budget should be the centre of economic analysis of the government's work and its creation of one professional obligation, not only of the Prime Minister who came unprepared, but of all the leftover ministers that are not among us today. I have to, unfortunately, focus on one topic, since we've had very little time for this document, which is an increase in public spending. The unreal prediction of gross social product, which we warned about in December of last year, can cause major problems throughout society, for the simple reason that over 50% of GDP is redistributed through public finances. Therefore, a reduction in the growth of this aggregate will result in an increase in public spending that, in addition to expenditure of around 318.7 billion, with the budget of municipalities reaching around 67 billion and various funds, comes to a figure of around 600 billion dinars. With the revised gross social product, public consumption will practically reach 50%, which, of course, continues our infamous tradition established at the time of left-wing governments. Of course, this is very far from the government's declared views and the government's inauguration of December, and I'll remind you that that was a percentage of 47.6%. The Serbian government has obviously deviated from its policy, if ever had it, and there is no state of emergency or formation of a new state so that they can serve as an excuse. I will remind only one sentence from Minister Vlahovic, who said - when I say privatisation, I mean investment. Obviously, that sentence has turned into something quite different, which we could briefly translate: when I say privatisation, I mean budgeting -- and when I say budgeting, I mean social giving. What's also very dangerous is that the Serbian government is announcing new intrinsic borrowings, and I'll remind you that we had a counter-guarantee law here in one situation where the social product falls and drastically. So I would ask the ruling majority -- what kind of Serbia and what bills do they want to leave their successors, whenever they come to power after them? What is very important to stress is that industrial production has been reduced. I understand both seasonal characters, and the establishment of payment traffic in banks was also a major problem, and I will also believe it throughout this year. However, these problems, the Prime Minister and the resolution minister, did not say a single word in their presentation, but mostly focused on moving this tall house to the building across the street, which came across the general enthusiasm of most of my colleagues. Finally, to conclude, given that I do not have the habit of going through the budget items, one thing I would like to point out and point out, which is an increase in the funds allocated to the Serbian Government Communications Bureau, which is again rewarded by additional millions, so I would like to ask the Prime Minister that he is here - is this a signal that the media will continue to be controlled, does this mean that we will go back to campaigning for optimism, or is it simply a desire to hide and mask the failures of this government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27845	The People's MP Dragan Ljubojevic has the word, followed by the MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27846	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the budget rebalancing we are discussing today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is explained by the formation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and by crossing certain responsibilities from the level of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia at Member State level. This was a good reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia and a good excuse to create a new budget, namely to rebalance the budget, which would have been achieved safely this year and had there not been any takeover of jurisdiction from the federal level. Also important is the time and moment in which this budget rebalance is adopted. The budget itself is one of the most significant laws that the executive authority has given to the legislative authority and that there are real reasons for introducing the state of emergency it is certain that we would not be discussing this issue today, but rather that the government would adopt some temporary act, or act on the temporary financing of the Serbian state's authorities. The budget itself characterizes what was characteristic of all the budgets proposed by the current DOS government, the current regime. It's a huge deficit in the beginning, which is inadmissible from the aspect of economic justification. According to some estimates of our experts in the Serbian Radical Party, about 85% of the national income of public spending procedures. It's inadmissible and none of the businesses, no state can stand it. For this reason, this budget deficit, which amounts to almost 20% of the projected budget, which we have proposed to the amendments, amounting to something below 200 billion dinars. These 47 billion dinar deficits account for more than 20%. What certainly affects this budget deficit is that the increase in gross social product does not go at the planned pace. Serbia's government planned for the first few years to grow in gross social products to be 5%. It is estimated to decrease from 3.5% to 4.5%, which is extremely low for the conditions in which our country is located, which cannot be praised for the high gross social output, i.e. the high efficiency of the economy. Several items, which I would point out, are related to concrete revenues and expenditures: Article 1 of the air space use fee provides for about three billion dinars to be collected in 2003. This is more than twice the amount planned by the federal state in its 2003 budget. In light of the fact that the Airspace Control Agency and the Flight Control Directorate will again move from republican to state-level within 90 days, why the item was found in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Also, the disputed item in article 6 under number 454 - subsidies to private businesses is 133,650,000 dinars. What private companies subsidize the state? What private enterprises subsidize citizens of the Republic of Serbia? When we look at Division 25 - within the Ministry of Culture and Media, there is this item and the total amount of 133,650,000 dinars. I return only in one sentence to the Ministry Act, to the part where the Ministry of Culture and Media has the possibility, therefore, to be given the authority to investigate, evaluate, evaluate the work of the media in Serbia. Will this be done by some private firms, private agencies or individuals who, out of the state's money, will create public opinion and influence that the executive authorities consider certain media to be good, less good, bad?- I'm sorry. We find this item inadmissible. Unfortunately, due to the shortness of time, I am unable to explain in more detail all the shortcomings in this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27847	The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, followed by the folk MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the serious objections we had regarding the adoption of the budget in November and December of last year and today are in effect in considering budget rebalancing. Our basic remark, at that time and today, is about budget deficits. The minister said the budget deficit would be covered, primarily through privatisation, donations, loans from international financial organisations and domestic banks. Of course, here it is also pointed out that the privatisation funds will be somewhat lower, but that's why donations will be bigger. It is clear and understandable that the funds from privatisation will be lower and lower, because today in Serbia everything and everything is sold out, factories, hotels, companies, all at far lower prices than real prices. We all need to know that it's a cost-effective investment for every foreign investor, first of all, that investment that can be returned in 7 to 10 years. How many such sales have been in Serbia during these two years? They're almost gone. It cannot be a cost-effective investment for this country, for example, for this government, for example, selling sugar factories in Crvenkovski, because the money invested in this factory will be returned to the buyer in less than a year. For these reasons, of course, it is clear that these funds will be significantly reduced. On the other hand, we are absolutely against the fact that the funds from privatisation are invested, i.e. to be allocated and put into the budget, they should already be used, above all, for investments and for the start of production. When we talk about donations, we need to retaliate that the donation is going to be less and less. The best example is about the Red Cross and the displaced faces. Simply, the conditions for donations in this year will be very difficult, possible and humiliating, because they will be related to giving up war damage, to full co-operation with The Hague tribunal and who knows what they will not invent to give up this little donation, and on the other hand, we know that no state can and can rest on donations, and that the only real cure is to start production and employ new capacities. When it comes to covering the deficit, we are very careful when it comes to international loans! The experiences of many countries around us are bitter about the use of international credits. All these countries, Bulgaria, Romania, and even a little further, Poland and the farthest ones, Argentina and Brazil have remained in debt slavery after all these international loans! Their debts are hundreds and billions. On the other hand, we know how this population in all these countries lives -- very difficult, 80% of that population lives in extreme misery. Simply, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank very often know that praises for reforms are very good, everything is good, and in the end the whole system breaks down and nothing remains. I didn't look closely at all these tables where there are certain increases, but at first sight it is seen that significant increases are related to various agencies, which we do not need, for NGOs, which have the ultimate effect for this country and the people. On the other hand, we didn't see it, because yesterday there was a little table saying that an extra 200 million were being allocated for employment. It's a miserable asset, given that the total budget provides for about 7 billion in cash compensation and that these payments are due to this ministry late. I'm talking about the unemployment benefits, the people who lost their jobs and the cash fees for the late four or five months. There will certainly be a new employment law before us, and the number of users will be halved by it. She had no idea that several hundred thousand in this year, at least that's what Minister Vlahovic said, would be out of work and be at this office. Minister Djelic is not here. He's a man who made a fantastic Swiss retirement formula, where pensions line up three months with 50% of the cost of living and 50% of the salary growth. We already know today that pensions amounted to 60% of the average salary. And today all prices are calculated according to wages. Of course, those salaries are getting smaller, the fewer people who are employed. In this rebalancing, there is nothing to do with pensioners, that these donations will increase. This budget will hardly be realised in 2003, given that both sales tax and income tax, the main items, are at stake. There is an increasing number paying taxes, and there is an increasing turnover in Serbia, so this budget is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27849	There is a word from MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27850	The honourable MPs, if memory does not deceive me, when Minister Djelic explained the budget two years ago and defended it, brought among other things an old and fat book, which represented the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's budget from what year. That book wanted to show us how it was done, how there's every expense in that budget that the government makes, including matches that it spends. Let's not go to matches. On that occasion, he promised that the budgets he was bringing before this congregation would look similar. I tried to check that promise from the Minister on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Media, which is about 1,200,000 dinars. I was very concerned by the article of the entire 714,600,000 dinars to subsidise public non-financed enterprises and organisations. I find out that 700 million is meant for RTS, which I can kind of understand, no matter what RTS is designed as a public enterprise that will not be financed from the state budget, let's say in the transitional period. But why is there a frat house from Nis, I can't understand it, and I'm particularly interested in what's left. The special service item also concerned me, as did some MPs before me, which amounted to about 261 million, the travels of ministry officials of about 5 million, and I was most concerned by the subsidisation of private enterprises. I don't understand if the Ministry of Culture is getting so much money, has it solved all the problems and protected all the cultural monuments, financed everything that should be in the area of culture, so now there's money to fund and private businesses, and why finance them? I guess private companies operate on the market principle and fail or succeed depending on their efficiency. I found out what special services are in the budget, and it is said to be about the reconstruction and development of the Sremski Karlovac, Hilandara, the Temisvar diocese. I absolutely agree with projects like this, I just wish I knew what they were, how long they'd last, what amount, who made them, who was behind them? Why the construction of a national cinema network is financed, I do not understand, as well as public information institutions, when this is not foreseen by the public information law, which the government will soon propose. How the ministry decided to revitalize the "Avala film". As I said before, my most incomprehensible subsidies are to private enterprises. The reconstruction of the National Theatre in Belgrade is mentioned, God, I'd like to know what, in what amount? The construction of the Belgrade Opera building at the mouth is mentioned, exceptionally, only what is the project, how much will it cost, when will it be completed? All in all, my impression is that the MPs don't decide anything, more specifically, that they have nothing to decide on. In doing so, I think as much of MPs as of the opposition MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27851	There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27852	Today we are discussing the draft supplementary budget and we are almost all aware that we have virtually no impact on this, nor whether there will be a budget of 250 or 380 billion dinars. It doesn't matter, because the government's policy has led general public spending to one limit of absurdity, total collapse. No matter how much we look for today and look for an answer to the question of how long it takes for us to be together, or to answer how much we're going to let the government take, we forget that we have to decide on behalf of the citizens how much we're going to give to the government. In such circumstances, we are discussing today. The budget has permanent problems, the lack of resources for the most basic state functions, there are also problems with fuel, bonuses, salary payments, not to mention social and other categories, which meet their needs over the budget. Unfortunately, we don't have a general consolidated balance, although according to the situation, we don't need it. It is likely that over 50% of the total participation of public consumption is both direct and indirect. We generally have a problem with a small gross social product that does not meet the basic needs. That's what statistics prove. Yesterday, the Statistical Institute published one motion review for the past two months; almost all positions are indexed below 100. That means we have a full stagnation, and when it comes to profits, whether they're real, whether they're nominal, social, even building a housing fund, I'm not talking about an industry that has a terrible decline in production. Unfortunately, we opened our market, sold it to a stranger, and on that market we no longer have room for our goods, so we lost motives for economic activities. Of course, the way out of this, because the state is seeking its own, must be either in debt or in tax increases or in debt to the banking sector. However, knowing how the banking sector is, it can do so for a few months and that some of the results are being relocated, but later the banks are moving their capital, because they do not want to lose the substance, especially in these conditions when the IMF dictates such monetary policy and such a firm course that absolutely does not meet our needs. I don't want to talk about certain items, but the obvious destruction is in place. The destruction on the side of sources of public income, which directly affects public spending, the functioning of the state and all that is financed from the state. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that we're practically adopting a federal budget today. It doesn't stand in the Constitutional Charter, because it's our duty just to define the amount. But you see from the 35th page, and on the other hand, we have exactly all the items of that state union budget. It shouldn't be like that. I think it's bad that we included that budget, even if we showed it, of the state union in Serbia's budget for a simple political reason. Then practically nothing changed, except maybe those two billion that someone would have paid from Montenegro. As you bargained, so most likely it will be! That's where you had to include the government's budget spending for the first three months. She hasn't been shown anywhere. Probably, it will certainly be shown in the final account, probably, but also on the revenue side, it must be shown, because it is some revenue. Remember what was in article 1 of the original text of the 2003 Budget Act. So 18% of the sales tax is segregated and I think 20% of the excise duties are segregated, customs as autonomous income, etc. Since you've included the federal budget from April 1st to December 31st, you've also got an income page, Milan, you've got to make a statement. You have to! Next, I'd like to draw your attention to the uncontrollable growth in municipal costs. Consider the average income of our household, be two employees, and consider the increase in municipal costs. You will see that there is no room for the consumer basket, and for the permanent consumption of goods, almost no one can think about it. I would also point out the problem of reviving payment traffic under new regulations and the new tax system did not give the expected results. Every assignment from foreign international organisations is conditioned only to... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... One second, just to say that last year several loans were given counter-guarantee by the National Assembly -- there were such conditions that directly concern our energy system, our bases of tax, pension and disability insurance and some political relations that are affecting human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27853	The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, has the word, followed by MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27854	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mrs. Comic, today are on the agenda to amend and supplement the Budget Law. The explanation shows that this is exactly what is done because of the new situation, i.e. creating a new state of Serbia-Montenegro. When the budget is well looked at, it is clear that all the costs of financing the new community will fall on Serbia's burden. This is seen from the participation of the states in the financing of the common state. I agree that this is an additional burden that Serbian citizens must bear on their backs. The question is, how long will it take and how long will we be able to carry this burden?- I'm sorry. Speaking of budgets in general, it is easy to say that it was necessary to take advantage of the opportunity to do a good budget rebalance for 2003. When the budget is applied in practice, it turns out nothing works. When Minister Djelic explains the budget, everything turns out to be fine and everything is in place. When you go through Serbia, nothing works, there's no money anywhere -- you don't live off the paper and a lot of the digits you put into this material. Since the weakest situation is in economy and agriculture, I thought there would be interventions in the part of the economy and agriculture. If these two things don't work out in time, I don't know where we're gonna fill the budget. My exposure will go towards providing more funding in agriculture. If he doesn't sow, say the peasants, he can't even reap. This year the farmers are sitting on the porch. They promise farmers agricultural products in ransom. As the price of agricultural products currently stands, it is hardly possible to repay. Do not remember that farmers have ever had such a low price in sales. Products can't cover the cost of production. When you have so much support on the side, why don't you ask our big friends to buy something from our country in the area of agricultural products, at a decent price, for which there is no means to boost exports in the budget. To encourage early fruit and vegetable exports, where the funds can return to the budget as quickly as possible, and the same could be done with the allocation of funds to encourage milk and milk exports. Currently, farmers have trouble selling milk. Milkies buy milk twice a week. What do the rest of the days do? Is it not one of your many newspapers, that a cow is milked every fifth day of the week? On the other hand, we're importing milk -- which is now math?- I'm sorry. When it comes to economy, there's nothing to say. Nothing's going on. Companies don't work, workers sit at home without pay and wait, if it's possible to "bring grapes on vervain". It is clear that no solution is offered for the economy, as well as that this government has no solution for the economy and agriculture. If we do nothing in this part, at the end of the year there will be an even bigger deficit in the budget. I have to admit that it does something: it's a lot of agencies that you've formed to double with ministries, various funds and many directors. In the last few years, there's only room for employment. Also, not to miss, actively works and newly formed Ministry of Privatisation, and I see you've been planning from privatisation to fill the budget with 12.5 billion. You sell your businesses nice, you fill in the budget, and when you look at the budget, who gets a raise in this budget? It will receive the MUP 1.6 billion, close 0.4 billion, a culture of 0.3 billion, employment or a labour market of only 0.2 billion. This is a real distribution, and this shows how you look at development. Finally, I want to say, yesterday, the Prime Minister said in an opening statement that this budget would be adopted by a large majority. You seem to have forgotten how you adopted the current budget; that you didn't have a quorum, that a break was made, and that there were tensions and contracts for someone to enter the O.R. and make a quorum for you. You know who helped you and why to adopt the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27855	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Marsicani. He's not there. The word has been issued by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27856	Dear Mrs Comic, dear fellow MPs, since we have had a good education today on how to be thrifty, I suggest that in the spirit of such dialogue, which we have conducted today, on the basis of Article 81. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, let us extend the session to the conclusion of the agenda and ask the Assembly to declare this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27857	I am putting to the vote the proposal of MP Sinisa Mitrovica, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group, reform of Serbia, to extend the work until the debate is over. For 106, against 28, he did not vote 31, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal and decided that we should work until the debate on this agenda has been concluded, and since the National Assembly has made such a decision, I am determining today as voting day, in order to be effective and rational in the work of the National Assembly. We're continuing the principle debate. The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word, the next reported word is the MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27858	Dear People's MPs, I am taking the opportunity to thank the newly arrived MPs, because I will have the honour to use this minute for the SPS, to make key remarks on the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. I'd like to ask the Ministers, who I also welcome, to be careful, to listen to me. Respecting the basic act for the work and development of a republic, or state, in the case of Serbia, which is the budget for the current year, I believe that this act should be carefully analysed and we should also respect those remarks that we, as opposition MPs, have put in place when we adopt. Also, while respecting the elements of the draft plan for 2003, which was adopted in December and these amendments and additions, I can say as an SPS MP that the basic elements, which have been shown, show the basic settings that should be planned and analysed in both the revenue and the dispensary part of the 2003 budget. Compared to what the opposition MPs have said, which I am also joining at this time, I would like to focus my attention on two segments -- one part relating to the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's 2003 budget, which is 17.3% of the proceeds, which is not small. We can plan whatever we want, but the plan that brings to its base is 17.3% of the deficit is something that we all need to pay attention to. The basic reason for my discussion refers to a deficit that is not small, is 46.9 billion. It will cover the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget, planned in two segments, out of donation and privatisation, I believe it is not realistic and cannot bring our Republic to a positive economic balance by the end of the year. I note that the difference between the budget adopted in December and this rebalance is covered by the two segments, privatisation and donation, unreal. First of all, because the government should be concerned about how the privatisation process is realised. The very difference in debalancing, covered by the imbalance, of 5 billion dinars, which goes in favour of the second part of the coverage, which is in terms of donation, where it decreases by three billion dinars of income from privatisation, says something is wrong, related to the privatisation process itself. We, like all MPs here, and positions and opposition, have made one national interest, and that is primarily that social property should be privatized. But the approach, the way and the model of this occasion is shown to be wrong, because now, after only three months, means the first quarter of 2003, we realize that the privatisation income will not be that, then the government and the new prime minister should worry. This is certainly because also privatised companies, and those companies that are to be privatised, have no basic segments for further development, in which they lie and the real reason why our economy is not working, why privatised businesses also have no effect. We can only balance the budget with work. Without work, there's nothing! From donation and privatisation, it's nothing! We need to fold our sleeves and work; make some national product, which will not only be in agriculture, but also in industry, machinery, in the accompanying industrial branches, which will have such a price of their product on the domestic and world market, that it will give us the opportunity to create such an economy and not plan a deficit in the budget to be covered by donation and privatisation. That is the essence of our remarks, as well as the essence of what it was like in 2002. As far as I am aware of the planned revenue, the cover of the deficit in 2002 has been undermined by the donor. Are we now going to cover these 14.9 billion donation deficits in 2003? And the question is -- here it is now April 2, 2003, when we can sum up the results of the first quarter. How much for these three months did we get donor funding -- that should be answered by the minister in charge, who obviously doesn't want to listen to me, but doesn't matter?- I'm sorry. So, Mr. Minister, I'm asking the question -- is this year's donation revenue in the first three months adequate to this budget rebalance plan, about 3.5 billion dinars, which should be collected from donor funds? That this is both unrealistic and in the government's proposal and reasoning, it is said that the gross social product is reduced from 5 per cent to 3.5 per cent, that inflation is rising from 9 per cent to 11 per cent. Now if we compare one simple mathematical data, the European coin, the euro, on our market in sales value is 64.58 dinars, it's about 8%. If, as the people usually say, it is already around 8%, we should keep this rate of planned inflation until the end of the year. But in the explanation given here by the government (I will have to read and quote the argument): "It is expected that prices will grow from 9% to 11%, compared to the previously expected 9%. In fact, rising oil prices and strengthening dollars will lead to "importing" foreign inflation, on the one hand, and further harmonising the price of infrastructure services, will affect further price growth, on the other hand". It's an example where the government admits that it can no longer control inflation and that this here is unrealistic, in this budget rebalance plan. Let's get to the point (I think the minister should hear it) in section 17 - and, the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, it's the Water Directorate. Starting with what we talked about earlier, the importance of this area, I have to say that the government is setting itself a trap here. First of all, in the budget adopted in December 2002 and in this plan there are around 1,900,000 funding for subsection 17.1. - The Water Directorate. It's on paper, and the Treasury has allocated funds, but there's no one left to go to. Here's why there's no one left. The Water Directorate has never been established. It doesn't exist. There is no Minister of Agriculture and Water Management, Vesenov, to answer - why is there no Water Directorate when the Law on the Ministry and the Financial Plan is adopted? Who spends these funds, where do these funds go, how are plans and programmes from this area organised, how is Serbia's water economy organised at the moment? It has been organised so that since the Omnibus Law of April 1st, there has been a "Vojvodvovod" with all its segments and board of directors. There is nothing in this part of Serbia. Where will these funds be spent, how will they be controlled? It was supposed to be last year, because there's been this ministry law for a year, when the Water Directorate was founded and not implemented. That's why you can't realize the plan and track the water supply, because there's no one to use. (President: I warn you that you have exceeded the allowed time of your parliamentary group. ) There is one question that needs to be addressed by the government. In this respect, I believe that this budget rebalance has many shortcomings and that this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27859	This concludes the principle debate on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. Since there are no more entries on the list for the word, I ask if they want the word of representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their right to do so? The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27860	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I must say that even through the budget rebalance offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we see no movement towards general macroeconomic elements. Obviously, I must reiterate my disagreement with the government of the Republic of Serbia's economic policy for this year. Apparently, Serbia's economy remains on a significant margin. All right, privatisation, but we can't leave Serbia's economy standing and waiting. Because credit-money policy at this point in the Republic of Serbia seems to be introducing Serbia into a serious recession when it comes to economics! You then have a decline in social product, i.e. you will have a decline in the total gross social product for this year and a trend in the decline in production, import growth relative to exports is increasing. We can't help but deal with these elements. The only real argument for budget growth, for filling the budget, for avoiding deficits in the budget, not to use the funds from privatisation and taking credit at this point, is to raise economic production. There are entire branches standing. We used to argue about why construction was stopped -- please, 200,000 people in that branch are seriously standing. Here and there, we see that a solid residential building is being launched somewhere; either in one of the banks there is an opportunity to build a business - residential building or here it is offered only for the members of the MUP. I don't think we can treat that area that individually, because we have a problem that's subtle. He refers to complete construction. You have manufacturers of brick products, a whole area that is stagnating at this point, as well as a part of the meditation complex, then you have the production of carpentry and a lot of things that are tied up at this point. That branch could easily rise if we created conditions, change credit-money policy in this area and, I must say, return the solidarity of housing to the level at which it was in the previous period. It has nothing to do with political systems or political colour. This has nothing to do with the growth of agricultural production. You have a number of factors in that area that can raise, first of all, the growth of sales taxes, taxes on services, the growth of income taxes and a lot that would appear in this area at this point. Little where in Serbia you have new cranes to raise, to move in that area something to do. Maybe it's not a topic or maybe it's not a topic, but I'm telling you it's one of the most serious topics that, when it comes to the budget and the economic policy of the state at a certain point, we need to seriously think about. If there were conditions for this kind of thing, it's very obvious and we don't have to argue about whether or not they exist? There are numerous funds in banks that are unsecured. There's been some kind of development inflation planned this year of about 20%. The only question is, which direction will these funds go - will they go into consumption or will they be directed towards production? If you're under pressure, and at this point there's a lot of pressure for the public and the citizens to concentrate on spending, it seems to me that it would be one of the fatal mistakes, because the funds should go exclusively into production. Only through the production process will a new production cycle be renewed and conditions will be created to get new funds from these production cycles with which we will be able to progress as a state. I don't treat this budget as having any political character or political color. This is how he gets that character by himself. It seems to me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should flee from such a species and such character, and it seems to me that, regardless of the current situation, the fight against crime and everything that is surrounding the state at this moment and what is happening in the country, we cannot escape from this crucial moment, which is the development of Serbia's economy. Please, in Vladica's Han, there's Delishes, an absolutely productive company, where the diapazon is made from mushrooms to milk. No one can explain to me that this company can't work, because at this point, a short-term loan is needed to raise the production process! I'd like to remind you that there are 30,000 cooperatives here. These are developmental things, these are production cycles that are being renewed every year, and they're possible. What will happen to the privatisation process of such a company? Someone's gonna buy it. Such companies will be privatised tomorrow for better money and, they will have sound tax balances, they will have a mass of paid sales tax, and at this point it will not cost 1,200 and some workers who have not received 17 or 18 salaries. By order of Serbia, you can find a dozen companies and companies standing by, waiting for the privatisation process, waiting for restructuring, visiting banks, and in banks expensive loans still! We are as many countries at risk as the one in power determines. Let's cut the credit risk. So, when you look at all of this on this business side, please, in Serbia, it's big 50 to 70 companies, and everything else is stagnating or falling in one process of production. Raising the level of production means filling the budget, growing sales taxes, growing service taxes, and then reaching the level of consumption that will help all of us to live better. In the end, it will create conditions for employment tomorrow. We can't say programically -- we'll hire 100,000 people this year, in Serbia, if we don't have a growth in production, if we don't create conditions for new businesses to work. Serbian citizens have come to terms with several facts. They've come to terms with the fact that we're in a privatisation phase where European integration is important, and that's okay. They can't make peace with the fact that at the end of the month they can't accept pay and tomorrow their children don't have a job perspective; the stories they used before, so they're used in different ways, like, we have millions of employees. Last time there was a bill on pension and disability insurance, I was talking about the insurance treatment. Now I'm going to tell you something else: the funds for employment and pension and disability insurance services are, in my opinion, two services that in 20 or 30 years have endured all reforms and nothing serious has happened when it comes to them. So let's ask a question -- how many people are really unemployed or how many people are registered at the employment bureau? And when we start that treatment, I have a right to 20 minutes if you're in a hurry... (President: Do you want to use another 10 minutes? (Yes.) (Yes.) ) So, you will see for yourself, if you were to train through funds really who needs a job in Serbia, you will see that there are at least 300,000 people who are registered exclusively to achieve social rights, not labour rights. These are balances for the budget, too, seriously, therefore, it seems to me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a problem here too. Please understand that this is not ideological, this is a fundamental question, so how we're all going to live together tomorrow. We can't send messages that we're going to hire I don't know who, and we always have a drop in production, the closure of businesses, the story of privatisation, and that's okay, that's one side. It has nothing to do with going to a bank tomorrow and raising a decent credit with a normal interest to restore the process of production, to settle the debts, one, the other, whether the company is before bankruptcy or not and to launch the production process especially in those branches where we can be export-oriented. There are companies in Serbia, regardless of the political systems that were in this country, are well-conceived in the previous period and 90% are export-oriented. I think as we speak about this question, we obviously don't understand each other very well. I have to say, no matter what we're talking about, we don't think we're the smartest, but we think, all the questions that are burdening the state at this point, that this is one of the essentials, please. We have allegedly the National Bank of Serbia, and yet here we have not treated the law on the National Bank of Serbia; we also have the seal, now we have the National Bank of Serbia's coin. That's absolutely illegal, please. Here, I'm asking everyone here, did we pass the law on the National Bank of Serbia? Of course we didn't, and it goes through like nothing's going on. The coin is absolutely illegal, or illegal, that new bill is again an illegal bill in the state of Serbia. We don't even have a chance to take that, we're still working with old money, and I don't even know who has those new bills. Please, if we're talking about legitimacy, it is this law here, bring that law to talk about, to adopt it, and that, you know, when someone orders to make a stamp, it has to have a solution to the occasion. Please, this is a big question. Then how can someone talk about credit-monetary politics in this country, and there's no basis for that? These are fake stamps, gentlemen, fake stamps, with which right, it doesn't matter if it's a G-17 group or someone else, but it's absolutely available by a false seal. As far as I'm aware at this stage of the fight against crime, it's a highly treated crime. Gentlemen, I know there's no transmission, but I have to say, maybe you should take a look around. You know, I know you're in a hurry, here, we're going to finish, but I have to tell you this, I know you do, but I'm warning you that it's important for both you and the public to seriously think about it tomorrow and to pass the law on to the National Bank of Serbia; to discuss this issue here, as well as the treatment of this issue and the treatment of a credit-money policy that is directly reflected on this budget! Please, gentlemen, it's not a joke what I'm talking about, because these are serious questions, and I think we'll all live better after them. Finally, the government of the Republic of Serbia reads arguments before Serbian citizens. Think about that seal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27861	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. We move on to a discussion in detail. Prior to that, I hereby conclude the search in principle and in agreement with Article 136(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Siniša Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27862	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 137, I propose that the debate in particular be held for a maximum of three minutes and I ask you to make your statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27863	I would like to put a vote on a proposal from the People's Parliament to hold a debate in particular for a maximum of three minutes. For 85, against four, there was no vote of 45, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to hold a discussion in detail for three minutes. I would like to inform you that MP Biachi Anton, written down, has withdrawn his amendments to Articles 2, 6 and 8. It's a bill of law. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27864	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 that is, the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that part concerning the real sources of budget financing. These are taxes, excise duties, customs fees for the use of airspace. In fact, the proposal for Article 1 or the revenue side of the budget, according to the Serbian Radical Party, is unrealistically high and is not in line with the economic potential of the Republic of Serbia, and those parameters that are mandatory in the projection of such a member have not been used and are not taken into account. The amendment to Article 1 is, in fact, the continuation of the budget that the Serbian Radical Party designed back in 2001, or 2002, and we believe that it is much more realistic than the proposal for a budget submitted by the government, i.e. by the competent minister. The government, or the minister, did not take into account the foreign trade deficit, did not take into account the decline in purchasing power and, more importantly, the increase in the number of unemployed caused by the chaotic privatisation of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the foreign budget's income is unrealistically high and needs to be brought into line with the real opportunities of the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27865	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27866	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is about the amendment to Article 1 tabled by counterpart Arsic, and concerns the reduction of revenue in the budget. We consider 271,790,000,000 to be an unreally high amount of revenue in the budget, while 199,468,800,000 dinars are something that is more realistic and which is easier to achieve. In the rebalance of the 2003 budget, you are forecasting a deficit of 467,901.819,000, given that the budget rebalance itself against the budget, which was adopted in December, for 2003 is higher for some 57 billion dinars, whether Serbia's economy will be able to withstand this much of the burden that was designed by this budget, and especially because there are some items that we consider to be unwarranted and which can be reduced. I had just mentioned in the debate in principle the item relating to subsidies to private enterprises in the culture ministry's division of 133,650,000; then, donations to international organisations, 7,800,000; it is not a large amount when we have in mind that the 270 billion budget itself, but for the country in the deep economic crisis, the government of that country must take care of the separation of literally every dinar. The question arises which international organisations are needed by our government to receive and receive donations? On the one hand, we're counting on collecting a deficit of nearly 15 billion dinars from donations, and on this side we're making donations for some other countries. It's something that's absolutely inadmissible! Also, paragraph 481 in Article 6 is donations to NGOs - 875,132,000. What are the NGOs that the government needs to finance with 875,132,000 and are these really NGOs, if financed by the government with 875 million dinars? As for point 2) of Article 2 of this deficit of 46,901,819,000 dinars -- the question arises whether this structure of coverage of the budget deficit is realistic, if we have in mind a substantial part of it of 30% should be covered by donations that are very uncertain.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27867	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27868	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, such as the real budget projection for 2003, 199.468.800,000, are so realistic that there are 85 MPs in this House, and as the budget deficit is close to 47 billion, so there is a deficit in this assembly as regards the parliamentary majority of 31 MPs, who will probably appear with false cards when they vote, so it becomes groundless for these amendments to be explained, and especially when we have a situation where we do not have a government report, that we do not have a minister who could possibly react to these amendments; everything is unthinkable. We can assume that it will always work this way, which will be justified by an emergency procedure, and we don't have to have a permanent emergency procedure. However, since we know that we are very annoying to you because we are going out for a pay phone to explain the amendments, we will continue to explain them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27869	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27870	This amendment shall require that Article 3 be deleted from point 3 of Article 1a. which reads: "Planned borrowing by foreign creditors to the amount of 24885,000 dinars". It is a member who gives space to the Republic of Serbia to provide guarantees and counter-guarantees on foreign loans. We from the Serbian Radical Party believe that this point should not stand in the budget, that this authority, or that obligation, should not be taken over, because the economic situation in the state and all these movements suggest that the state could not fulfil its obligations under these possible loans. It is that here it is given more in the form of one risk, possibly, to happen, and it may not happen, but the economic situation suggests that this exceeds the usual risk and that this becomes a practical commitment of the government. I would especially draw attention to the fact that we have centralised payments based on public expenditure, that lower levels of government are practically in one networked system. It also has its own good side, of course, but a real deficit, in terms of lack of funds in accounts, lack of funds in the vault, practically paralyzes the republican level of government and government at local level if these debts were to be carried out during 2003; it is thought primarily of new responsibilities and the structure of these loans is given, primarily intended for the infrastructure of local self-government and public enterprises from the republican level; there is probably a need for repairs, for fixing that system that should work. However, our economic situation does not allow it. Secondly, our government will not be able to achieve the budget and be a quality guarantee. In this way we come carelessly into the already forbidden area of over-indebted debt, which burdens next year. As for point 2), the risk of these commitments is about five billion based on additional guarantees for a total loan of about 41 billion dinars. But in 2003, new debts of about 25 billion, as planned, create new commitments and a new risk for the government that it must separate probably about 2.5 billion. Of course, it would all go from reserve funds, and that is how the functioning of those state bodies, which are vital to the development of the state, is at stake. This is a political stance to break off this uncontrollable task, because it appears as a boomerang. According to that folk story, "which is not paid on the bridge, it will be paid on the keg," but then it's much more expensive, much more painful and disturbing all the next budget plans.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27871	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27872	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, in 2003, about 66 billion guarantees and counter-guarantees will be issued, of which about 41 billion for foreign creditors. And self-proclaimed Governor Dinkic boasts that he has a two billion-euro foreign reserve, which is four billion marks or 12 billion dinars. These foreign exchange reserves are obviously in the straw at Mr Dinkic's place, instead of serving to encourage and develop the economy. As a result, we find it unacceptable to continue borrowing in the face of inconclusive people. Thanks to the material, which was delivered to us by the Ministry of Finance as a complement to the bill, we see who we owe to and for which debts are guaranteed and counter-guaranteed. Among other things: The European Investment Bank, based on five loans of 20 billion dinars, which were still being transferred to the Republic Roads Directorate; for the JP Belgrade Airport about three billion -- which is being prepared for privatisation; the Yugoslav Railways of four billion -- we have a rail law from which we could see that part of it is being prepared for privatisation; the Republic Road Directorate six billion (this is what this protected witness of the Chume spent) and EPS 3,717 billion dinars for a project to rebuild trafostations, power lines and other devices, and in the meantime, electricity has cost you ten times. Therefore, there is no reason for this much borrowing. That's all we do for inopartners, because they best place their free funding by giving it as a loan as we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27873	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27874	It is our desire that, through Article 4 of the Rebalancing Regulation, in Article 3 of the amending budget, we change the position of the 1st indent 4. The essence of this amendment to the SRS is to take a principled position, when it comes to original revenues, in this case an autonomous province. You know our position when it comes to financing an autonomous province, especially when this political set is at the head of the Assembly and the Executive Council of Vojvodina. But when it comes to principle, we seem to put that aside. If the Government has already set original revenues by the draft budget, in this case an autonomous province or local self-government, why limit the amount of the original income, whose percentage part belongs to local self-government or autonomous province! What's the point? If it is made from sales taxes somewhere, from corporate tax, if that amount is higher, then it is also useful to contribute both to the government and local self-government, in this case to the autonomous province, that these funds are being pooled into the province's budget and to the government's budget so that education and culture can be financed, as the Government states. In general, when it comes to local self-government, why should it be limited to a municipality if it has more resources, and a percentage in advance is determined how much it belongs to that municipality. Why limit her income? So later on, with the budget rebalance of the local self-government, certain funds would be recovered from the government? It's a double job. Here's the nominal amount. We all know there's nothing in a month from the reality of these sums. Minister Pitic informed the public that 200m euros in the first quarter of the budget deficit. After that, the newly elected prime minister himself announced that a budget deficit was recorded in the first quarter. Then the finance minister, according to his magical ability, turned it all into a budget surplus! It is now unclear why it does not want to apply its ability when it comes to autonomous province, i.e. regional organisation and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27875	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27876	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, received a report from the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where Bojan Pajtic is rapporteur. It is not clear to me how the Legislative Committee empowers Bojan Pajtic to conduct the National Assembly and to say whether amendments are legally possible or not, and in fact proposes to the Assembly whether amendments will be accepted or not. These are not the powers of the Legislative Committee at all. This is nonsense that Bojan Pajtic suggests accepting or not accepting the amendment. I have submitted to Article 5 of the amendment on behalf of the SRS to this law. That member's too tall here. Article 5 states that part of the receipt provided for in Article 1 of this law is intended for transfers to Serbia-Montenegro amounting to 38,219,095,000 dinars to carry out trusted responsibilities and additional tasks, in a manner established by this law. It's okay to mention the total income, and here later on in budget expenditures the total amount of donations and transfers. It's normal, you can specifically single out some larger items, and especially this item of 38 billion. She's doubled. Article 6b of point 1) also states that the Republic of Serbia provides funds totaling from not reading again the same amount. I think there's a game here. Which now requires two identical texts to be in two different members, unless the government wants to "transparently" here to say it agrees with the Serbia-Montenegro community, writing in law. On the other hand, by obstructing, individual political leaders within the DOS, fighting against this same common state that we are now declaring through this budget law and duplicated, in order to, behold, Members of the public get the impression that you are truly well-intentioned and want a common state, you believe that it is possible, etc. And on the other hand, you do contrary to your principles, what you promised the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27877	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 6 to which the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27878	Ladies and gentlemen, probably the highlight of hypocrisy is this limitation of the budget debate to three minutes after the amendments, such as the highlight of hypocrisy to lead the debate in general in front of an empty assembly hall! The situation is what it is. I submitted an amendment to Article 6, which gave expenditure on specific purposes, in line with the discussion of the SRS MPs who, when the budget was adopted last December, said that the budget that was then voted on was too large, too big and that the Serbian economy and the Serbian population could not finance and that it was impossible to raise those funds. Now you're going one step further and you're increasing that huge budget and you're reaching even more resources than the economy and the citizens of Serbia. In this amendment, I tried to intervene in such a way that these expenditures were reduced for basic purposes, so I'm going to try to put that out for a short time. For fixed costs, I envisioned a smaller amount, for travel costs also a smaller amount, for contract services, for specialised services a smaller amount, for current repairs and maintenance of a smaller amount, for the material of a smaller amount. Then, classification 442 - interest payments on foreign loans, to be deleted; classification 444 - tracking costs, lower amount; subsidies to non-financial corporations, also reduced amount; transfers to other levels of government, reduced amount; donations and transfers of organisations and compulsory social security, reduced amount; social protection bids from the budget, also to reduce the amount; taxes, obligations, fees and penalties to be deleted; fines for the resolution of courts and judicial bodies, also to delete; funds and reserves to delete; buildings and construction facilities to reduce the amount; machines and equipment to reduce the amount; stock reserves to delete; and to pay off foreign creditors' principals to delete. I haven't had time to read all the amounts that have been reduced, I'd just like to comment on a few items: classification 421 - fixed costs, and in the explanation here it says that these are electricity costs, municipal costs, etc. It states here that these costs are increased because electricity and utility prices are expected to increase. Gentlemen of the government, you'll be happy to hear this from the citizens of Serbia, the price of electricity has increased multiple since your arrival in power. You are now announcing a new increase in electricity prices. At the same time, you sell electricity, export electricity at 2.4 cents, and Serbian citizens pay the same electricity for more than 10 cents. So, to be exact... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... The most expensive electricity paid by Serbian citizens is over 10 cents, and we will export it at 2.4 cents.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27879	The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27880	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, please take this amendment on purpose. I'm sure you won't accept it at this point, because you wouldn't be able to balance the debt and demand side, i.e. income and expenditure. And for the future, we're here for you, with this amendment, we've made it clear where you can save. By the way, to relieve the citizens of Serbia, because they're funding all of this. First of all, these are travel costs, contract services, specialized services, running repairs and maintenance, materials, interest payments on foreign loans that should be completely deleted. Just like you need to wipe out and pay off the principal to foreign creditors. The reason is that it is much smarter to advocate war damage compensation and to exercise that right of our country. Then you wouldn't have this obligation. Thus, to delete expenditure on fines for the resolution of courts and judicial bodies. We see you planned to lose a lot of disputes. I hope it's not some international dispute. These are the items where you can cut costs, and therefore less will be asked of Serbian citizens. You're obviously not interested in anything. Are you there? Hello, Mr. Minister! He's not here. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27881	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 7 on which the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. There's a word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 7, which I have submitted, is related to the amendment to Article 6. This amendment plans to reduce the total appropriations allocated from the budget to budget users, i.e. to reduce budget users by making significant savings for 246,370,619.000 instead of 318,919.000. We have an amount of 1,854.900,000, which is set aside by budget users for the co-ordination body of the Federal Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja and the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija. Given the impact of these bodies, i.e. the bodies of the Federal Government and the Coordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, we believe that an inappropriately high amount of funds has never been explained before the Assembly of Serbia, i.e. an explanation of what these funds are used for. We know that one man, Nebojsa Covic, has all of these resources, plus another 281 million, who in this part of Article 8 receives through the budget, i.e. parts of the funds allocated as transfer funds to the state community of Serbia-Montenegro. Also, we believe that the inappropriately high amount of air service costs, the part financed from the budget, is 1,498,520,000. You ask - what do Serbian citizens single out a billion and a half dinars in the airline, i.e. a state union airline Serbia-Montenegro, when the majority of government officials are using the services of some other airlines, not airlines in this case, of the Serbia-Montenegro community, and are praised for making significant savings in the federal state budgets, in this case the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27883	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Trajkovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is there another one of the authorized participants in the debate who wants to hear it? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Stanulov. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27884	The authorities are never enough money, and the opposition would like to cut all costs, and that is the natural difference between the government and the opposition. Here is one member of the law, where we can really cut some costs and allow the budget to be more acceptable, to be less burdensome for the citizens of Serbia, without, on the other hand, disrupting some relations and not reducing the financing of certain bodies and organisations or institutions, which are necessary for the functioning of a regulated state. It is a new member of 6a relating to the transfer of funds to the Serbia-Montenegro community from the Member States' budget. It has been given here for basic purposes and certain amounts have been determined. If I hadn't read to you everything contained in the amendment, because the amendment was given to MPs, I would only point out two items. One of these items, where it is necessary to reduce or completely abolish funds transferred from Serbia's Member State to the Serbia-Montenegro community, is that donations to international organisations amounting to 178,000,000 dinars are completely missing. Look, on the one hand, we boast that we are filling the budget by receiving certain donations, that we are in debt in the country and abroad, and here this country that receives donations, on the other hand, separates 178,000,000 donations from some international organisations. Furthermore, we think that there is a need to significantly reduce or completely abolish the costs of the airline, because there are regular flights. This airline should only be used on very rare occasions, when it is really necessary - officials from Serbia-Montenegro Member States have already experienced the charm of travel in a different way, private planes, are now back in one state community, so I believe they will not find it difficult to get used to using these private planes again. Here, I see Mr. Mitrovic agrees with me and I urge Mr. Mitrovica to support my amendment through the resolution minister, that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27885	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. We Serbian radicals were against this budget in December 2002 and this way, which is worth about 271,000,000,000 dinars. We have had a big comment on the privatisation that has not been implemented and which is not carried out according to DOS promises, and it has a significant impact on this current budget rebalancing, as well as on the one that was adopted in December 2002. The rebalance of the 2003 budget - a comment on the new state union, with its own name, attitude and its views heading towards "your Europe". That doesn't make sense. Is it our country to call it a "member," which is to wrap it all up in the rebalancing of this budget? A reform of the state administration is required, this is the wish of every citizen, including ours, Serbian radicals, but this reform must be fueled by new production, new jobs, and thus by filling the state register, not in this way and in this way. The number of organs and organisations reduced to 23. Will it be able to bring this new state into "the world of Europe", it will only be seen and felt on the skin of citizens!? The deficit financing structure has changed, thanks to a larger amount of donations: 14.9 billion dinar donations, privatisation of about 12.5 billion dinars, loans from international financial institutions of around 12.7 billion dinars, totaling about 46.9 billion. The donations that come into this budget will have inconceivable consequences for future generations. We've had it the same way in Tito's time. We received permanent donations, and today we pay them to heads, territories and subjection in all areas. Donorship in past times teaches us to no longer receive donations from anyone. It should be kept in mind that foreigners give nothing to anyone without profit, which is ultimately measured several times in their favor. Amendment to Article 10. (to add Article 10a) reads: "The funds achieved by the sale of capital in the privatisation process in 2003 will be used according to the revenue achieved under the Privatisation Act, and the competent minister submits this report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at least once every six months. "It is perfectly normal for such an important and, per minister, transparent privatisation to be controlled by the National Assembly. My amendment irritates you, gentlemen of the DOS, and on your subject, on your gaffs, it's that everything is "transparent." That's what you said for a little while. You no longer swear to transparency. And it's natural because now you're the government, and the government doesn't like to see everything, as you prove today, driving in a armored car and with a huge number of bodyguards. That's your transparency. Someone who doesn't vote for this budget will vote against his people. Unfortunately, whoever votes, that vote against the will of his people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27887	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 11a be added after article 11. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, which I have filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, treats one very important issue, and that is - if you have noticed, and I believe most of you are not at all following what is happening, nor have we previously been the amendments to our parliamentary group - a principled pawn, to help people who have stayed behind in the Zastava car factory, and that in this way we would have done what this authority has to do, to have heard about this car giant, and because of the fact that the workers realized, on Monday night, more precisely on March 31st, that they were played and deceived; because, at 10.00 p.m, first on one of the Kragujean TVs, and the next day, a statement came from the owners of Newkar Malcolm Bricklin, who we are responsible for claiming that one of the leading white-world frauds. He said he is asking the management of the flag group to extend the deadline for signing the final contract. I remind you that this has been nominated by Minister Bozidar Djelic, that Aleksandar Vlahovic signed the pre-contract without asking anyone at the head of the Privatisation Agency; even some MPs in the leadership of the flag group, who are sitting in parliamentary benches today, said they do not know what the company's bonity is, whether this man is capable of doing anything at all, and then some of them have resigned, and some have been expelled from the Board of Directors of the Zastava Group. I ask you, on behalf of the SRS, to support this amendment, which is added to Article 11a after Article 11, which reads: "The purchase and sale of transport funds by the Republic authorities and organisations can only be carried out with the prior consent of the Government. The purchase of means of transport by republican authorities and organisations will be exclusively full of domestic producers (in this case Zastava-a car). Requests for the purchase and sale of means of transport shall be submitted to the Government by the users referred to in Article 1 with a preliminary opinion of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. The registration of the purchase and sale of the means of transport of users referred to in Article 1 shall be carried out through an annual report to the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. The authority responsible for the registration of the vehicle may register the vehicle only with the written consent of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate, which has appointed the Republic Authority or the vehicle user organisation." That would also be the end of this amendment. You put your finger on your forehead, Jeruscoro, at least according to your announcements, will end up in a state of emergency. I guarantee you that on the first day in Kragujevac, you will have 5,000 workers in protest for such a lack of care for them and members of their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27889	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27890	Only because of the lack of time that Natasu Jovanovic has prevented to the end to explain this amendment would she ask the minister what is preventing him from accepting this amendment? What do you have against the flag? This is something that existed before 2000. No body, no ministry, no local self-government body was allowed to buy a car by foreign production. It was also in a certain way solidarity with the flag, which is in a difficult situation. You're here to demostrate some attitude and completely ignore the situation in the flag, and you're buying vehicles that have the value of a child's car or a tank. The blinds you bought cost this people. No one in your pockets took the money out to buy it, but the taxpayers bought it for you. Today, the people were disgusted outside the Serbian Parliament, watching how many security guards you have and how many armored vehicles you have. Maybe the reason for not accepting this amendment is because the flag cars don't make armored vehicles.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27891	No more sign-ins for the word. Since we've completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I'm asking if the Proposer's representative, the Finance Minister, wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27892	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to answer at least a few questions the MPs asked during this discussion and a few questions that have been raised by discussion on the amendment. I want to share these few notes in three parts. The first part about some remarks or suggestions concerning the very concepts of budgets and public finances, the second part about some specific issues and remarks and, in part, some of the issues concerning the process and some of the reports that you have requested. As for the first part about the concept of the budget itself and the public finances, I want to say first that some of the figures mentioned here are not correct. As for the total amount of public spending and its participation in our gross income, they do not exceed 50%, as some have noted. Simply, when we compare the figures and when we do what has to be done to properly compare public spending with gross national income, which is a consolidation of public expenditure, then we get to the figure that's about 43%. For example, when you look at public spending in terms of social funds and budgets, you cannot double-count the grant that the budget sends to social funds, because that way you exceed that public spending for some 60 billion dinars, which are not spent twice, but only in one place, and that is, in the end, for pensions, for social security, health insurance and for the labour market. Our public spending totals about 43% of our gross national income. Is that a lot? Yes, it is! The real problem with our public finances is not so much that in some places it really spends too much. There's a lot of places to save. We'll work on optimizing public spending. There are thousands of examples. For example, in our hospitals non-medical staff participation in the total number of employees is one of the highest in Europe. That's a fact. We have the productivity of some of our doctors and some of our specialists, which is among the lowest in Europe. We have a situation where, if we look at our primary schools, the number of champion students, due to a poor demographic situation and immigration, has fallen quite a bit over the last ten years, and that the number of teachers for the first and second classes has not only failed, but has also increased.- I'm sorry. We've got a dozen cases like this. Not to mention, what is today a possibility, and that is to rationalise public spending through this constitutional redecoration. The key problem is not so much public spending that we don't spend as much as we should spend on a patient, on a soldier, on a teacher, on a doctor. However you take, any measure of our public consumption, we see that we are far from that level that would be suitable for a medium-developed country. The real cause of all this is low gross national income, which today is much higher than it was two or three years ago. It has now grown and this year should reach about 1,700 euros per capita on what we inherited, which was about 900 to 1,000 euros per capita for 2000. We must always, unfortunately, return to the fact that in 1989 gross national income per capita was about 3,000 euros or dollars at the time. That's the problem with Serbia, that's the problem of public finances -- you go from 3,000 euros to gross national income per capita, to 43% of it, and that's to have three times more money than to get 43% of 1,000 euros. Therefore, in the years to come, we will continue to have a seemingly unambiguous problem that says: we are not spending enough to live normally and to have normal infrastructure and in culture, education, for the military, for the police. On the other hand, these people will be right, as are right those who say our public spending is a few percent, that is true, above some average countries in transition, because with 43% of total public spending in gross national income we are at the very top of Europe. But we can't take care of it casually. We simply need to be very careful to keep that balance at an acceptable level and, with economy, gradually and carefully increase this public spending, in a way that will not endanger budget users, or the very economy that needs to finance it all. So to conclude, on this key issue of our public finances, and this is a question for the vote of the budget, as is the question of the daily execution of all public finances at all levels -- I know, esteemed MPs, that you have this same problem at local level where you are often either mayors or participants in the local government, that this problem is also being reviewed at local level. In absolute terms, 43% is a lot, in real terms -- what can we do with that money, not much?- I'm sorry. We will have to, like the last three years, after three years, gradually come out of what was a vicious circle and the economy of public finances, but the cause of this is not a bad policy in the last three years, but the biggest economic disaster that one country, at least in the Northern Hemisphere, experienced in the 20th century, when it lost two-thirds of its economic subsistence. The second question that is permanent is the question of balances in the given assets between what is intended for transfers or social services and what is intended for infrastructure, investment and economy. Here I have to say that, at this point, if there's one item in the proportion of our gross national income, it means to measure our real possibilities, and not to measure some wishes, it's that there's not enough in our public finances to invest. If we look at the trances and take examples of money spent on pensions, the total amount of contributions and transfers from the budget is about 14% of gross national income in Serbia for pensions, for all three pension funds. Hand to heart, if we want to be comparable to other countries in transition, we should accountingly subtract those figures, as far as pensioners themselves are concerned. Nevertheless, we can say that our country of all countries in Europe is the only one, if not the one most separates for pensions and for those generations at this point. It is one element of solidarity and it reflects, in part, the philosophy of this budget, which thus expresses very strong solidarity with citizens who are now retired. To give another piece of information that reflects this situation in one different, perhaps simpler way, which is that two countries, if you want one country, one entity, which is the Republic of Bulgaria and Republika Srpska, where gross national income per capita is approximately Serbia's gross national income, there are now salaries of Serbia, Republika Srpska and Bulgaria at about the same level, while average pensions in Serbia are twice as high as in Bulgaria or in Republika Srpska. It's a different way, and it's a strong message for our older citizens complaining about the pension level, that this budget is the solidarity budget. The other way we can look at it, it's a matter of subsidies. If we take all forms of subsidies, what is for the economy, which is for public enterprises, we will also notice that our country is at the top of these forms of public spending, that is, according to some comparative countries. Could you do more? Absolutely more could happen, but already today, given that I am finishing that second part, the balance between what transfers and solidarity or the social security of the economy are, we are already giving a lot in proportion to our gross national income for subsidies and for tanspheres, for solidarity, but it is denying investment, capital investments especially, roads, energy and various things. That's where we'd have to find more space and more resources in the years to come. It seems to me that this budget, as the late prime minister said when he introduced it to this home in November last year, is still more of a social budget than a development budget, if we have to baptize it in some way, and since this rebalance is a rebalancing of continuity, it is still the same feature for the budget that we are confirming today. The third thing I'd like to mention in that first part of general philosophy is about guarantees. There have been a lot of stories about it, and I want to say that I am personally proud that today we are both the first government and the first Ministry of Finance, we have given such detail and this precision to the National Assembly, and thus we have established this level of control over it, if you will, by the last way that executive power can lend some future budgets and some future generations. If you vote for this budget, you will limit the government of the Republic of Serbia to the maximum amount of guarantee. I want to explain two or three things here. Of course, 66 billion is not a debt, but a maximum amount that can be guaranteed. That's not for this year, but that's all that's been done since the beginning of all our relations with international financial institutions. We, at this point, if you look at it, mentioning that law you passed a few weeks ago, introduce a new way of paying off these loans -- you will notice that the cities of Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Belgrade must regularly allocate in one special account the appropriate funds for the payment of these loans. We also provide for public enterprises for mechanisms towards which the international debt must be primarily planned for their expenditures. In this way, we will ensure that what we see in the future does not happen in the future, which is that the state guarantees certain debts to local self-government or public enterprises, and that in the future for a variety of reasons, because of the so-called social peace and social prices for some public enterprises, that those who are borrowers are unable to and forget, this is the easiest thing to do in Serbia, to provide for funds to repay the loan. Then everything shifts to Serbia's budget and to the taxpayer of Serbia and thus, in a relatively indirect and indirect way, and some public enterprises that lived better than the average of the state at that time, and perhaps some environments that were in better shape, because they were able to get some credit and live, then transfer their debts to the whole state and to those who have less money than they are. So, you expect this government to suggest every time, that's the last thing I want to say here, this doesn't mean that we won't come for counter-guarantee anymore, for every loan that's been mentioned here, we'll come with the right law. In this way, some form of unwanted solidarity will be avoided, and that is neither economic, political, nor socially justified. The last thing about the general lines of this budget, it's covering the deficit. Indeed, in this budget, we have made it clear, we have increased the donation rate by some 5.7 billion dinars. We expect stronger support from the international community. I must say that the first reactions of both the European Union and the Federal Republic of Germany and some other countries are encouraging. I am convinced that this increased aid will not be left behind and that we will not be then, I would say, in a commitment, and then what would be the obligation, to review these expenditures somewhere in the fall and reduce them by 10 billion dinars. That, I hope, and I'm sure, won't be necessary, but if necessary, we'll suggest that we still have one responsible budget. So much in the main lines. A few words about some specific things. First of all, as for culture, what's called a private subsidy, and I don't know what it's called in the classification, you have something that gave good results, which is financing a number of films after a very public competition, one number of projects has won and here the financing of these films continues. Some of these films have collected some significant awards, and this fund will be renewed. In this way, we will be able to become one of the centres of cinematography, not only because we have good filmmakers, as the people say, but also because we will industrially affirm ourselves as an important country. The other thing is, she's a Kragujevac and a flag. It is hard to understand how someone can say that there is no concern for Kragujevac, when the production of cars was four times bigger than what we found, when the budget of the Republic of Serbia worked as an hour last year and provided some 1.6 billion dinars for the Kragujevacs who are at the Employment Service and provide an average of some 1,000 euros in subsidies per car produced in Kragujevac. Also, as far as the project itself is concerned... , or any other, as long as he doesn't close, the game is open. We hope in the name of Kragujevac's well-being and his inhabitants that it will succeed. I also note that this government does not forget any promises, so it has not forgotten that one of those licenses to open a cigarette factory is for Kragujevac, which will additionally be able to provide several hundred direct jobs and several thousand for the indirect establishment of jobs for Kragujevac and his region. The Yugoslav Army -- the budget in terms of participation in gross national income is identical for the past year. As Minister Boris Tadic said, this year we will look very closely at all the items and save on one side, but we also need to find money to finance the reform; "Partnership for Peace" and many other integration processes expect the Serbia-Montenegro army, which is one of the main topics we will have in public finances for the next three to five years. As for media institutions at the federal level, if you look at that division in the community budget, we see that there are fewer funds than last year. Until the final decisions for "Tanjug", "Borba" or "Radio Yugoslavia" or "JU Info" are made, and most of them are expected to privatise, will be financed from the current budget reserve at the common level. There are two things that are clear. There will be nothing more like before for them, and surely these expenditures and in their sleep will not be able to be at that level. For example, JU Info hired almost 600 people at one point and at that level in no way will these indirect budget users be able to count in the future. As far as the Panorama company is concerned, there is one amendment, which I suggest you reject, because these funds are not planned at an adequate level; but it is clear that additional funds will be necessary for this company and will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, according to the law that exists and at the level that we will agree on. This will be determined by the government of the Republic of Serbia and will be financed. There is no concern that this budget user will be forgotten. Finally, and there's the third part, I want to say that there were questions about budget implementation. The first three months are tough. The first month was difficult because of the transfer of payment traffic to the bank. We've had some difficulties, as you know, and many companies have paid off their salaries in advance, so in January of the month there have been fewer salaries paid, and every year we have this little dull discussion about the increase and the fall in wages. We well know that our statistics unfortunately measure not December's pay, not January's salary, but salaries paid in December and salaries paid in January. This salary growth tester reportedly in December and the fall in January is nothing but a way of measuring and in fact we have a much more stable wage growth than it looks like. I want to tell the pensioners again that a new way of calculating pensions isolates them from these statistical charms and allows them stability in pensions. Of course, we owe the budget system law at least twice the annual report to this House on budget implementation and we will deliver this home report in early July for the first six months. I want only for this rebalancing to thank the teams at the level of the Republic, not only my ministry, but all the ministries have worked hard to fit in one precise way of new authority and trying at every moment to save, to do the same with less people, with less resources. And also colleagues at the federal level, today's state-level community, and those who have left, who have helped to avoid chaos and have done everything to reach some transition and those who have come, the new Council of Ministers who in record time entered the discussion with us and made it possible for this first time to be the budget of the Republic of Serbia where every dinar of the Serbian taxpayer is seen on the income side and every dinar that is financed by the Serbian taxpayer to be on the apart side and that the Serbian budget inspection is controlled by every dinar, as well as those institutions that we still have to establish, which is Serbia's Supreme Accounting Court, which will control everything that the Serbian taxpayer financed, not on behalf of the government, but in the name of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27893	I thank Mr. Minister and conclude the search of the bill in particular. You don't have the right to a replica, he didn't insult you at all. Since we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular and have completed the debate on all points of the agenda, we are moving on to a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27894	Mrs. Micic, you've injured article 100. The Rules of Procedure, insulting the dignity of the National Assembly and the MPs of the people. I felt that after the presentation of Mr. Minister, who referred to our exposure during the day, I had the right to reply, because he misread everything we said in the principle debate. I know you're nervous, but here's some more. All the amendments we asked for best, I went out to thank Mr. Secretary for this exhaustive presentation at the end of the day, although this looked like an exposé, we expected this at the beginning of the debate, and it would be much easier for us to discuss later in the principle debate. It is obvious that today was a plan to work very quickly, and that in the end Mr. Minister had to delay the debate and his story to gather here. You're missing 126. Thanks to Banet Ivkovic, his new cars and the security he received, you may have these 126, but there is no Mr. Kasa here, nor Mr. Lekovic. It can show a lot of things, but the listing exists, everything can be controlled. Good luck passing the law without most of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-02-0.u27895	There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure since, in the event of a decision on the right to replication, Article 90(3), the President of the Assembly has this discretionary right. Now we're going to approach the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I realize we have a quorum and we can move on to decision-making. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE ACCOMMODATION OF THE MEMBER STATES ON DEFINIFICATION OF THE FINAL STATUS OF THE ORGANISATION AND ORGANISATION REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 15. LAW FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STATE COMMUNITY OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORA (vote) I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision to adopt an agreement by the Member States on the definition of the final status of the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 15. The law implementing the constitutional charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, in general. For 126, against one, it did not vote five out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - I am putting the draft law on Ministries (vote) to vote on the proposal for a law on ministries, in principle. For 126, against one, it did not vote five out of 132 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has passed a draft law on ministries in principle. We're moving on to decision-making in detail. I would like to vote on amendments by MP Joce Arsic to Article 2. It's a bill of law. For one, against 122 abstentions, there were no nine votes, a total of 132 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic on Article 3. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Zoran Krasic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which proposed the amendment of Article 8 and the addition of a new member of the 8a, submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Ljubomir Mucic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Dragore Hiber. For 118, v. 5, abstention one, did not vote 8 out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment to Article 16. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted jointly by MPs Zoran R. Angelkovic and Bora Stanimirovic, who are proposing to amend Article 17 and add a new member of 17a. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. For two, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, of a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which was proposed to amend Article 18 and add a new member of 18a, submitted by MPs Branko Ruzic and Rajko Baralic. For none, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8, out of a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 18 tabled by the MPs Natasa Milojevic and Olga Kircanski. For 26, against 86, abstentions 8, 12 of the 132 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. No, against 122 abstentions, one was not voted 9 out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Milovan Radovanovic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendment to article 23, which was submitted by MP Dragore Hiber. For 115, against seven abstentions, there was no vote of 10, of a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 23, which were jointly submitted by MPs Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubisa Maravic and Đura Lazic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to vote the amendments tabled by MP Dragore Hiber, proposing that a new Article 29a be added after article 29. For 113, against 7, two abstentions, not 10, out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put to vote the amendments submitted jointly by MPs Djura Lazic, Ljubisa Maravic and Sreten Mitrovica, who are proposing to be added to Article 29a after Article 29a. For no, against 132 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, out of a total of 131 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote submitted by MP Joca Arsic to Article 30. For no, against 119, a abstentioned one, was not voted 12, out of a total of 132 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we've completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the law, in general. I put the draft law on ministries in general. For 126, against one, it did not vote 5, of 132 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has passed a bill on ministries. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Exception and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003 in principle. For 127, against 5, the abstentions are gone, all voted, out of 132 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 1. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic on Article 2. For none, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of a total of 133 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic on Article 3. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic on Article 4. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic to article 5. For no, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, of a total of 132 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 6. For no, against 121 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, of a total of 132 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to article 7. For no, against 121 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, of a total of 132 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Momcilo Trajkovic to article 7. For 28, v 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 132 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Stanulov on Article 8. For 121 against four, the abstentioned one did not vote 6, out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic on Article 8. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic on 10th. For one, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, of a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic, who suggested adding a new article 11a after article 11. For three, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 9 out of 132 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2003 budget, in general. For 127, against 5, the abstentions are gone, all voted, out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003. As the National Assembly decided on all session agenda points, I conclude the 3rd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003.
