ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28578	Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. According to official records, the session is attended by 101 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I understand we have a quorum to work with. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Radoslav Veselinović, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Kasa Jožef, Milos Radivojčević, Milan Radulović, Natasa Milojevic, Živica Predojev, Juhas Atila, Biači Anton, Išpanovic Istvan, Goran Ćirić, Jelena Milenković-Orlić and Bosko Ničić; (prion) Pal Shandor, Petar Misic and Predrag Stojanović. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC INFORMATION (single details) I remind you that yesterday the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion for a maximum of three minutes. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and Djura Lazic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? He has the word Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28579	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to delete "with due regard for circumstances" in Article 3 of this law in the first place. We suggest erasing because this expression is vague and inaccurate. It introduces confusion and may, when necessary, be a subject of abuse, but also a limiting factor in freedom of expression, i.e. informing about a particular event, appearance or personality. We have proposed these words to be deleted, because if they remain in the text of the law, they will always give the current authority the opportunity to relativise the verification, the truthfulness and completeness of the information before the publication. In addition to this fence in law, the authorities will always be able not to impose any notorious lie about the opposition under this fence, and when it comes to some truth that concerns the current authority and does not suit it, they take serious measures against the journalists who have announced it. It is absolutely certain that everything at a certain point can be subdued under Article 3, as it corresponds to the authorities. The fact that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in his second address to us yesterday, has twice even returned to Article 3, trying to convince us that the words we propose to delete from this article are just protecting the press, and that we do not understand it, is just making us more confident about our right attitude. I must tell you, esteemed fellow Members, that more than five of my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group had the same autonomous understanding and understanding of this member, which has kept me fully convinced that I am quite right about my request to amend this member. So I would like to make such a bitter pledge to the vice president that in Article 3 nothing changes but commenting on that people's: who has a nail on his shoulder, he shouts, go. That's why, fellow MPs, I ask you to accept this amendment, and when its application begins, then we will see to it. To finish up, on my crazed, which, I hope, will invite you to reconsider this amendment, is said: the tongue of the bone is gone, but the bones are breaking. That's why every word in this law is very important. In the end, I would like to ask the President of the Assembly to, at a time when we adopt the information law at least in a way, return to normal informing MPs about the agenda and to be informed of the sessions and the agenda. If nothing else, at least with a telegram, because this is a real shame that even after this law we will be notified, as it was for this law, at 12.15 Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28580	National MP Zarko Obradovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28581	A colleague, Dusan Cvetkovic, submitted this amendment with a request to delete the words "with due regard for circumstances" in Article 3(1). I think this is one of the formulations that gives the possibility of different interpretations, of arbitration. It's just one example of how the law can be interpreted as volunteer. Is it not in itself enough and logical that journalists and responsible editors are obliged before publishing the information, which contains information about a particular event, appearance or personality, to check its origin, truthfulness and completeness? Well, if they do, and they should as professionals stick to all the elements of the code of professional behavior, if they do, and they should have something that makes them moral, then it's logical that before publishing information about a particular event, a person checks the origin. We think that this wording "with due regard to the circumstances" absolutely gives the editor the opportunity, as well as the journalist, for volunteer interpretation. I don't know why this provision even stands here. A colleague, Cvetkovic, suggested that it be deleted because we consider it an excess. There's no need to stand as it is, because she and some other provisions of the law are the basis for different interpretations. If something comes up, there's no answer, no lawsuit, no court and no editor can always say, "Yes, I've considered it with due regard to the circumstances and I didn't think there was a basis." It's logical that there is no such provision. I think this member, as well as the law, would be much cleaner without such a formulation, as it stands here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28582	Does anyone else sign up for a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28583	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, there are no government representatives today, to whom we address in the submission of amendments and who have the opportunity to immediately here in the Assembly and accept some of the amendments of the Members of Parliament. But I came out to comment on this amendment, because it has been submitted several times in the same way as Mrs. Verice Markovic's amendment to Article 3. Both of them realized that with due regard to the circumstances in the basic principles of public information, it meant absolutely nothing. Both amendments require that the provision be specified and that it be entered into the law that the journalist and the editor responsible are obliged to fully and reliably establish the origin and verify the truthfulness of the information. If in some media of local importance some information appears, and then it is transmitted by someone who has a much larger number of readers, then it does not amneste any journalist or editor-in-chief of responsibility. He'd have to be committed, much bigger to the number of readers, and because of the public's interest, to get true and complete information, to check that fact. It is also necessary to include in point 2 the full responsibility for the information transmitted. It is not enough for Mr. Covic to go on television and say that the Surcin and the Zemun municipality's Surcinian and the Zemun municipality's earth clan, that in time Serbian radicals were in power in the municipality of Zemun, to allow him to present any untruths about the fact that someone gave land to Dusan Spasojevic, that he gave a building permit to build that facility and, of course, that editor-in-chief, that journalist is not responsible for that information Covic made on TV. We create the entire environment for public information, for objective public information, we politicians. It's not made by public information. If we had the opportunity to face Mr. Covic on such a show and, let's say, Mr. Nikolic, to cross arguments, to cross facts, then the public would get objective information. This is how we were able to watch Batic, who speaks all sorts of things, Covic, who tells nebuloses, who make various lies at the expense of his political opponents. The means of information confirmed what I said yesterday in the principle debate, especially in the printed media and in state television, you could not read, nor hear anything the Serbian radicals put forward for this speaker regarding the public information law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28584	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Culture and Information, and the proposer's representative, did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28585	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the principles of public information is to inform, as the promoter suggests, about matters of interest to the public. According to us, not only because of the purity of legal regulation, it is necessary to change this title, the title above Article 4, to "Information of interest to the public". Things are moving or immobile, and opinion and idea is something else entirely. It would be cellificial to change that. The whole article 4 which speaks of the freedom to publish ideas, information and opinions on phenomena, events and personalities of which the public has a legitimate interest to know, except where otherwise provided by law, should read: "The information and opinions on the phenomena, events and personalities of which there is an interest in the public to be informed, under the conditions and in the manner laid down by this law are freely published. "The explanation is quite simple and concerns what we have brought to the amendment to Article 2, that it is not clear who is the one who determines the justification of interest to publish, to know about it, because the public is the only one who is relevant to judge for it what is interesting and what is not. Whoever doesn't want to read about day-to-day political events won't buy that press. He's gonna buy some press about home arrangements, how flowers are grown, and stuff like that. If he wants to be interested in what's going on in political life, he'll expect to see it on state television or read in daily newspapers, state media. I'm not talking about private property. We have to be objective, say there are no independent media. Every medium is dependent on who's funding it. But when it comes to state media, they are funded by the state and they are obliged to be objective, to give full information and to convey everything that is happening in political life. I especially point out that reporting from the National Assembly is neither complete nor objective, and that is something that should not happen. And I'm not talking about that there might be some kind of pressure. There is a self-censorship that is much worse than censorship, and we don't know how to fight it, except by creating a political environment by our politicians, that journalists can report as things really happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28586	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Svetlana Stojanović, Vladimir Andrić and Vukosav Tomasevic together submitted to the 4th amendment. The amendments submitted at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information withdrew this amendment. National MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Vladimir Andric and Vukosav Tomasevic have tabled a joint amendment proposing that a new member of 4a be added after Article 4. The amendments were also withdrawn at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee rejected the amendment. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28587	The amendment that we have submitted to Article 5. The bill reads: "Article 5 is deleted. "It is about the obligation to create conditions to exercise the rights of national minorities and ethnic communities in information, as well as to protect the interests of disabled and disabled persons. We consider them to be a member of the 1st law, Art. 2. i4. and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and the obligation of the State to determine that each at least declared and in law guaranteed the right to free public information, so that no special member of the law is required, those rights which were previously acquired are specifically defined and specifically introduced into the law. Everyone has the right to establish a public voice, anyone in that public voice can publish what they want, to place their ideas and attitudes, and in this case it is unnecessary to specifically prescribe certain rights that already exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28588	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MPs Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that it is not understood that we are Serbian radicals against the exercise of the rights of a special category of persons, I must explain this amendment in the sense that its place is not in this law, because all of this has already been regulated and guaranteed by the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. Thus, Article 30 on freedom of the media states that anyone may, without authorisation, establish newspapers and other means of public notification; television and radio stations shall be established in accordance with the law of the Member States and so on. So, regardless of ethnic, national, religiousity, everyone's right to do so is allowed and anyone in their own language can establish a note, whether printed, whether it's radio or television. Also, Article 52 establishes the right to preserve specificities, that members of national minorities have the right to fully and impartially inform in their own language, including the right to express, receive, send, exchange of information and ideas and to establish their own means of public information. Why should we pass one provision in the Charter into law? There is absolutely no need, no one slows them down, under the same conditions as any other person in this country, under the terms of this law or the Law on Broadcasting, this right is guaranteed, and I have the impression that it is more of a declarative character, as if we are now showing some additional assurance of human or minority rights, and by this charter we have recognized them all and for this reason we have asked for the removal of this article. As for the second position, I would really like a representative of the government, who has arrived in the meantime, to explain how this will be done in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28590	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I'm sorry, the word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Koraæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28591	This class is not just a declarative character, although it can be considered that the provisions called - the principles of public information in this sense and the declarative character, it is not a slow one, but this member is very important, since he stresses the public's obligations in the field of public information, as I would say, in a double sense. I would like to say, as President of the Council for Disabilities Affairs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that disabled organisations have insisted -- here I am talking about the Alliance of Disabilities Organisations of Serbia and their representatives -- that it is very important to note that, in order to protect the interests of disabled people, disabled people and other persons with special needs, the Republic provides a part of the funds. Asking how it's done, he said "bn" in a number of ways. As you know in the Broadcasting Law, it is envisaged that public service, which needs to transform RTS and RT Novi Sad, provides the possibility to monitor the pursuit of deaf, deaf and other persons who have other problems with monitoring the programme; therefore, there are ways and they are currently looking for technical conditions. As for other persons, such as the blind, this is where the state finances their specialized publishing work on Bray's letter; these are mostly books, manuals and professional literature, it's publishing. As far as public information is concerned, and it can be expanded so that the daily newspaper is also issued in that letter, the only question is whether the state is willing to participate financially. In other words, disabled persons, these persons, the state is obliged to provide special funds for their specialized and other activities. So, I don't see any problem keeping this here, I've already said, as far as RTS and public service, and the province and the republican, it's in the Broadcasting Law, and here it's only affirmed as principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28592	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proponents accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike so far the Mintings, this motion has almost calmed the MPs, so we can elaborate on our amendments, because the Proposer has almost feminineally explained this law, and therefore we can propose to such a promoter what is missing from the SRS MPs in this law. Namely, I filed on behalf of the SRS an amendment to Article 6 which is more of a termological alignment. The article says that foreign natural and legal persons have the same rights and obligations as domestic ones in the field of public information. The SRS parliamentary group, which says in my amendment, finds it more appropriate to say - duty, and here's why. Because these eloquencies are more likely to be present in terms of the truthfulness and objectivity of information, respect for international contracts and laws and the duty of a journalist to stick to journalistic ethics. So he has nothing to commit, but he is obliged to carry out information matters in accordance with regulations and laws. Also, we believe that the same article should delete the word "is"; in order for it to be more complete, I have to say that it's about domestics, and after the comma is said - unless otherwise provided by law or a confirmed international contract. We think it should stand - if it's not otherwise stipulated in the law, which makes more sense... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... and not confirmed by an international contract. Given the fact that it's done here (I apologize, just to finish the thought) of the termological alignment, I suggest that the minister be as feminine as he was when he was exposed, so reasonable as he is when it comes to changing this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28594	The Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Koraq, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28595	I must say, I have treated all MPs with respect in this congregation so far. I would ask the MP to treat this congregation with respect. As for my rope profession, which I can also use, I could really comment on a lot of things here, and I haven't done that before. Therefore, you honor this home and me who respectfully treats everyone. I think I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28596	I give notice to MP Stevan Kesejić, for his insult to the Deputy Prime Minister, on the basis of Article 101. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28597	It is nice that the president of the National Assembly is making warnings under the pressure of the Deputy Prime Minister, as well as the media are reporting under the pressure of government members. Okay, I won't comment on that. One warning more or less, we're used to it. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we have submitted to Article 6 an amendment that can only look like a termological alignment. However, it is essential because the word "religion" is used in bond relations, and the word "debt" is suited to areas of public life. Given that information refers to an important area of public life, it is included in this amendment, and I don't think it hurts to accept it as we have suggested. We have demanded that behind this decimal, pay attention, where it says -- unless otherwise provided by law, it stands -- unless otherwise provided by law, because this law has not yet provided anything else. We think this really should be on the condition of reciprocity and we asked it to be added at the end of the text. You know there's a state, there's such control, there's no satellite program in place, like Holland. I think that's the situation in Belgium, too. We can't let all states now, and the Priorities here, under the same conditions, as the domestics in the field of public information, form the media. Only on the condition of reciprocity, if we can get there. So, based on some bilateral or multilateral contracts. Reciprocity is what determines us in international relations. It doesn't bother you, and it means a lot. In a certain way, it gives meaning to the very state that holds onto itself. In this way it requires the same rights for its citizens living in those other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28598	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Đura Lazic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Zivodarka Dacin. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28599	On behalf of the SPS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6 of the proposed law. In our amendment, we think we're essentially grooming this member. The bottom line is to protect the state and national interests in this very important area of social life. We think it's okay for Article 6 to say it's written -- the party's natural and legal persons have in the field of public information the same rights and obligations as the domestic faces -- there to put a point. The other part of the article - unless otherwise provided by the law or the approved international contract - is to be deleted. That's the essence of our amendment. Why are we suggesting this? First, you can't see from this part of the text that the law provides for, unless otherwise regulated by another law, and which law and approved international contract. Confirmation and conclusion of international contracts and so forth, that's another thing; contracts are concluded, circumstances are specified, but it shouldn't stand in this article of the law at all. The adoption of this amendment eliminates the possibility of giving priority and advantage to foreigners in the takeover of domestic media. The first part of the text retains equality between both foreigners and our domestic founders. So, they're equal to the plan to set up public ballots. By keeping the rest of the text, which we propose to delete, it gives priority to foreigners in this very important area. We don't think that's supposed to stand. I believe that the vice president will respect these reasons, because if, under the Privatisation Act, we have allowed 70% of the capital of state and social enterprises to be bought by foreigners or domestic customers, and 30% to be left to workers, why in this sensitive matter give priority to foreigners. Somewhere we need to draw a line on the plan to determine the equality of the people of our country in relation to the foreigners, at least in this area, Mr. Vice President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28600	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason for submitting this amendment is mostly contained in the position of Article 1 of this law, which begins with words, for protection. I have submitted an amendment to amend Article 7 and reads: "Every type of monopoly in the area of establishment, destruction, broadcasting and publication of information and opinions in public ballots is prohibited. "There is no need to state in the legal norm the reasons why something is being banned. This may, Mr. Prime Minister, be written in the reasons for the passing of this law, but it cannot possibly stand in a member of the law and I believe that this member of the law has written someone who is a complete legal dilettante. When it comes to monopoly and its consequences, it cannot only refer to the person who publishes the information, whether it is written or electronic, but to the one who serves as the source of that information. The gravest violation of press freedom and the monopoly on information is now being applied by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this state of emergency. In particular, the police minister and the Prime Minister and Vice-President Nebojsa Covic, and you, Mr. Vice President, are the most generating a monopoly on information. As Mr Dusan Mihajlovic said, he asked politicians not to publish their opinions in public information because they are obstructing the investigation. The most disturbing investigation was you, members of the government, who in every way tried the SRS to black out that she was working with organised crime. These are your wishes, your opinions, and you harassed the police to find in any way any connection between the SRS and organised crime. In doing so, you haven't given us a single piece of media space...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28602	I warn you to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28603	Read the law, it's a monopoly on information.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28604	I'll read you your amendment, if you will, whether you should. Here, talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28605	In the means of public information, you haven't given us one single piece of space to answer your accusations. It's a monopoly on information, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28606	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28607	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what you have put in the first position of Article 7 should stand in the light of the law. The legal norm does not bear the reason why something is imposed, prohibits it. Norma needs to be decadent, concrete and clear. So again in the best interest of the amendment, and we have a situation, at least as far as the monopoly is concerned, that in the past two years, especially in the last month, the government has seduced the absolute monopoly in the field of public information. Usually in the second diary, somewhere in the tenth minute, you can see -- a briefing was held in the government for journalists, and sources from the government say Dusan Spasojevic financed the SRS. I have to remind you of only one historical fact, that Hitler, when he was strongest, was losing court proceedings, so one day all those who say that, Mr. Zivkovic, and Mr. Covic, and Mr. Orlic, will surely answer for what they say; and it would be good, I call them from this place, let them show one tape they found in Schiller, let us see who was there, what he was doing, and let them bear evidence that we are funded by the criminal clan.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28608	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreten Mitrovica and Đura Lazic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee rejected this amendment. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28609	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, we believe in the SPS that this member, who regulates the issue of the monopoly in the field of information, is unspeakable. That is why we have proposed that our amendment add a new position in Article 7 which would read: "A legal person who is the founder of a public vote can participate in ownership, in accordance with European standards and principles". We believe that a provision like this is inevitable, because there is no limit in these three attitudes as long as that percentage can exist to avoid the monopoly. In order to protect pluralism of ideas and opinions and to prevent a monopoly in the field of public information, there must be a limit to which the founder's percentage can participate in the ownership of newspapers, radios, televisions and other public votes. There should also be tax relief or state subsidies for minority, alternative or non-commercial media. If there are no restrictions on the percentage of ownership on the market, i.e. diversified capital, then there is an objective danger of monopolies of individual owners. That is why we believe that it would inevitably be, and that this member would be completely rounded up, to accept our amendment that precises this issue. We did not want to interfere or to propose a certain percentage that would prevent the monopoly, but we suggested that it be regulated in accordance with European standards and principles and that the experience of those countries, which have more experience on this plan, be taken over and rounded up by this member, who would be complete and complete.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28610	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There's a word from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28611	I find your intervention justified, but we've already installed what you're talking about in the Broadcasting Law, because it's very dangerous there, so you can get into a situation where one man owns all the media, TV. We in Serbia have some real dangers that, for example, some day in some development, because in some European countries we have examples of very serious judicial processes and political movements. As far as the media is concerned, it's much more complicated. For example, you have a publishing house called "Politicals", which cannot limit the number of daily papers, editions, which, for example, They can have it. So all you can say here is that the monopoly as such is suppressed, and then in the given, specific circumstances, your question can be asked in a court or even public debate - did someone achieve a monopoly by such an example? There are four or five agendas. But this can't be done in Europe, you can't do it in practice, because we have situations where daily papers, weekbooks, magazine editions often concentrate, change property, people start new daily papers, etc. So this general provision allows your question to be opened as a subject (your question is justified) and then the court can conclude that someone has achieved a monopoly at some point, but cannot limit; while in electronic media it is very precisely defined, it's called suppressing the monopoly. I'll tell you right now, there can't be one legal person who owns two national frequencies. I don't know if you've seen the Law on Broadcasting? We took great care of it there. I think we're taking care of that by general regulation here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28612	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28613	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Article 8 reads: "No provision of this law can be interpreted and applied in a way that would result in the abolition of any right which this law guarantees or restricts to a greater extent than that prescribed." The amendment implies that the word "indentation", which I pointed out, is replaced by the words "prohibited use", and at the end of the text, the point is replaced by a comma and they add the words "to this law". This amendment provides that interpreting the provisions of this law cannot cause a ban on the use of public information rights, because it is guaranteed. The right to public information is guaranteed by the Constitution and the Charter of the Protection of Civil and Human Rights. We can't play with human and civil rights, when it suits us, then we'll use it, and when it doesn't suit us then we won't. This is likely to concern the disputed Article 3, in which an editor or journalist is given the opportunity to, with due regard to the circumstances, which is a fundamental problem always in this text (this "appropriate circumstances") to determine whether any information will come out in public or not. That's why I think this is far more accurate, if instead of "leaving rights" the words "prohibiting the use of those rights" are put in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28614	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28615	Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate so far, it has already been shown that certain provisions of this law are interpreted to lead to the abolition of any right. Because here is the question -- how guilty are journalists who report from the Assembly, how much that self-censorship is their own assessment of what they should or shouldn't do; or it's under the pressure of someone who holds a monopoly over the media, or the government or individual members of the government, especially the state media, who, I say again, has an obligation to report what's going on in this home. I ask you, does the public have the right to know what we, MPs of the SRS, are thinking about this law and certain provisions of this law? The RTS reporter reported yesterday on what DSS MPs think, what the SPS MPs think, and what the SRS MPs think absolutely nothing. The vision of self-censorship, I'm re-emphasising, is the worst kind of censorship. He's the consequence of just interpreting all these provisions of the law, so that individual rights are abolished. Therefore, I do not think it is enough to just stand this provision in Article 8 as it applies and interprets certain provisions. Every member of the law should be clear and go, like any law at all, towards interpreting it in the broadest way, not to narrow down certain rights. The situation is such that free journalism, free media and information that are objective won't be for much longer; as long as the Prime Minister at his briefing can say - the case against the suspects, against the arrested, goes to the point that the killers are at the top of certain opposition parties and that this goes completely unpunished, without Mr. Mihajlovic reacting to it at all, but warns some politicians there, as if with those same politicians he is not sitting in the government and isn't tailoring all that politics and all that public opinion in Serbia. It is not free TV Tristenik was fined with 50,000 dinars and an editor-in-chief with 30,000 dinars because Tomislav Nikolic was on TV. It's a warning to all the other media -- you can't invite SRS representatives on the show, because you'll be punished. So what's this all about -- the Satanisation of a political party. It's a political reckoning that doesn't exist anywhere and that can't exist in a democratic society that you want to represent is being built in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28616	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28617	With this amendment, we just want to specify what the proposer did not want to do; three very important concepts, dominated by this article, are so ridiculously written and undefined that, practically, they demand that the journalist be a socio-political worker and that the journalist introduces his own free assessment of what he can, when he can, as much as he can and especially be careful not to blame anyone. We are modifying who can be a state official or a political function bearer. Let me tell you right now, this proposal of ours can be discussed in this amendment. This list of officials and politicians can also be wider and narrow and that is not the problem. The problem with your Article 9 is that you wrote that you do not know who determines the importance. The problem is, in Section 2, you have some kind of "proportional" restriction. Who's that cantar, who's gonna measure it? We are on something called the field of publication of data on the private life of state or political operators. So, we're just making an amendment to the minimum, that there's no such arbitration that requires political influence. The whole law is against freedom of information; it is based on some principles from 1968 and 1969, probably known to most of the promoters, which is, about, the concept of German socialism where a citizen does not know what his interest is and what is good for him, but is already needed by a party, a state that will assess what is public interest, decide on it and impose it on the form of public interest; as it is said here, important to the public, especially important, etc. So, this member should exist, because some preferences, traits, kinks and some details of the private life of the bearers of these functions are probably important, but they have to be in a causal relationship with the function that that person performs. So I suggest you adopt this amendment urgently, because that's how you protect everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28618	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28619	Ladies and gentlemen, we are absolutely in favour of the fact that holders of state and political functions cannot call for privacy protection, but only if the information is in a causal and consequential relationship with the function they perform. Whether someone has a girlfriend or not, it doesn't affect his function, shouldn't affect and shouldn't be of interest to the public. Whether someone is associated with crime, whether someone has a criminal history and performs a high state function, whether they have already been thrown up in a similar function, such as Mr. Djelic, it is of interest to the public and she needs to know something like that. Of course he can't be any of that protected. Since you don't let it go on television, that journalists can't write about government officials today -- the state of emergency I hear will be lifted in a day, one day the sea -- and we don't expect to be able to go on TV and talk about what we all know about you. Be assured, we will go from village to village, from village to village, and we will speak everything we know about you and repeat everything Mr. Seselj said at his press conferences; he started mentioning Spasojevic and the Legion since January, although yesterday Covic said he had never mentioned him in his life. Here's a press conference from April 19th, 2001, where he says that "it's obvious to everyone and the fact that without the Legion and Frankie, no one from the Red Berets could have done anything on his own... ". (President: I warn you to stick to the agenda theme. I'm talking about information right now. "... People suspected in Montenegro, then released from prison for assassination in Budva at Vuk Draskovic, are now in Batic's gang. Dusan Spasojevic is now in Batic's gang. "
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28620	On the basis of Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28621	You may give me a warning, but this law has me amnesty. If a means of public information now publishes what I said about the congregation speaker, it says in the law, it cannot answer for it. Then what an absurd thing if you warn me about it or, God forbid, you take my word and I can't say it. It then completely loses the sense of the existence of the MP, the institution of the MP and parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28622	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Parliamentarians Svetlana Stojanovic, Vladimir Andric and Vukosav Tomasevic submitted together to the 9th amendment. Amendment applicants, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, withdrew this amendment. National MPs Ivan Andric and Vera Markovic submitted, in the same text, an amendment proposing that a new member of the 9a be added after article 9. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proponents adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28623	If someone were to ask the promoter and our assembly committees why this amendment has not been adopted, I am absolutely certain that they cannot state any reason why they do not accept this. And they don't accept the termological correction, because it's an error listed in paragraph 1. - a means of public information, and it is a means of public information; meaning, the word "information" is translated into "communication". That's the change, you don't accept it, even though it's absolutely termologically correct that it's proposed by the amendment. Like the second part, where the word "idea" is deleted, because absolutely nothing means after information and opinions as concepts to which thoughts are told. And the third part, you didn't accept the word "dispersion," which is a traditional word that marks the way, as you say, distribution of printed public texts. But it will likely come to light later on that the need to accept this, that our laws look like something. In order to be convincing to the Proposer to accept this amendment, I will state the case of a television show of the educational program that was in the bunker. And it was in the bunker because it was very vividly describing the power of media manipulation of television. One event with three cameras was recorded, with three different positions. If you look at the first video, you can see a car running hard, brutally over a man. If this event is being watched through another camera, then you can see how that man jumped on the car. If you look at the video of the third camera, then you can see that this man was being chased, so he ran into that car on the run. Of course, that show went to the bunker, it couldn't show, because it was taking the mask off the RTS at the time. But that show takes the mask off of RTS today, from all our media. I'm just concerned that the author of this show has forgotten, ever since he became a politician, that power, the possibility of the media and the need for the media to be objective, to be fully and truthfully informed. That's why he's offering us this bill against reporting, against information, against information freedom.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28624	Who else wants a word? Nobody. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28625	Ladies and gentlemen, if it hadn't been for the "open studio" show Monday night, on the first channel of RTS, I would've naively believed the vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Koraq, who yesterday said the bill was drafted by an expert working group composed of journalists and lawyers. However, on that show were just sitting the same journalists and lawyers, otherwise favorites of the regime, and they literally said that what entered the assembly procedure was not the version they made, that it was significantly different and that even as they said, it was too similar to that of the two-year-old law that was abolished. Just so he understands and knows that this law is made up in some other, political circles, that it is colored politically. As regards the amendment to Article 12, it concerns the position of the fourth member. In fact, Articles 12, as well as previous Articles 10 and 11 define the concept of public opinion. The third and fourth position of Article 12 refers to the sphere of electronic media, where the concept of public opinion in the field of electronic media is defined. I believe that attitude 4 is too high and that attitude 3 is already clearly and precisely given what is considered public opinion in the field of electronic media, so attitude 4 is unnecessary. But if he has stayed, then at least a little correction should be made and the words "public texts" repeated twice in that attitude should be thrown out, purely for language cleanness and technical corrections. I'll read those attitudes. Paragraph 3 says: "Every single radio or television programme is considered to be one public voice and in the case of broadcasts on more than one radio frequency. "Stat 4 says: "If different radio frequencies are broadcast on different radios or television programs of the same founder of the public (these words are deleted), each programme is considered a special public vote. "It is logical that these two attitudes define public texts in the field of electronic media in the same way and that attitude 4 is too high, but if it already remains, to be language-correct, these words "public voice" should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28626	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28627	I don't know who to talk to, Mr. Lecic or Mr. Korač, or both, I don't see why you won't consider the amendments to the SRS. When I get back to the post after the bill's interpretation, I see with my colleagues that we are meeting with you for the approval of certain amendments. This is one of the amendments that won't change the essence of things. And Art. 10, 11 and 12 are about the concept of a public record. If we have already said what was public, then it is absolutely unnecessary in attitude 4, because it is already in the position of the 3rd of this article. Therefore, it is only a matter of clarity of the legal norm, and you can only be bothered by a proposing. I don't think you should think that way and when it comes to such amendments, you should go out for this pay phone right now, understand the essence of things, and say that you accept the amendment or say where we missed it. We may have misunderstood some previous norm, but don't just keep your mouth shut and make it look like we're dealing with decimals here, termological alignment. We just want the law to look what a modern law should look like and that every legal norm, and every word in it, has its weight.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28628	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 13, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 13. "the founder of a public note can be any domestic or foreign legal or physical person, in accordance with the law" and it can be said: "Any natural and legal person, domestic or foreign, can establish a public record in accordance with the law." This amendment to the SRS tried to define precisely the founders of the public vote. I would remind you that since the bourgeois revolution, freedom of the press has been guaranteed. When it comes to electronic media, television and radio stations, it needs to be a legal person and registered, defined as a legal person. As far as the press itself is concerned, it is possible that the physical person may also be the owner or founder of a public note. What is important only for written media is that the paper is registered with the republican authority of the state administration, which is responsible for public information affairs. It also allows a natural person to define himself as the founder of a public message. The Serbian Radical Party therefore wants to change its first position and to define that any natural person it wants can, through his media, inform citizens of Serbia. The second position is completely excessive: "The founders of the public message cannot be, directly or indirectly, state and territorial autonomy, an institution, an undertaking and another legal person who is in the predominantly state-owned or which is financed in general or in part by public income, unless this is provided for by a special law governing the field of broadcasting. "As we have the Law on Broadcasting and is precisely defined by that law, Article 2 is completely unnecessary and in this law should not define that part. This law is passed at a time of emergency. There is no TV transmission, so even potential founders of the public message cannot be timely informed. A decision by the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro set out almost the director of Tanjug. The proposed law does not foresee the existence of a state agency, nor does the law of Montenegro. By the way, I'm afraid, gentlemen Lecic and Korac, that this law is in collegiate with federal law. Given that they hold power at the federal level and at the republican level, it is high time they agreed, not only through their own media to provide information that suits them, but far from the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28630	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president, Serbian Radical Party MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28631	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 13 speaks of the founder of the public record being any domestic or foreign legal person. So no longer a natural person can be the founder of a public record. That's against the constitution, because Article 46(3). The Constitution says that the publication of newspapers and public information by other means is available to all and without authorisation, with registration of the register by the competent authority. I don't know what your reasons are, there's no reason to explain them, and they've managed to make it impossible for your physical faces to be the founders of the printed media, but you could explain that to us further. As far as the second attitude is concerned, we consider it absolutely excessive, considering. 96 and 126. The law on broadcasting. I get the impression that when you were talking about territorial more thanonomy, you were also thinking about local self-government. If that's what you meant, I must warn you that the local self-government unit is not a form of territorial autonomy. If you knew this and wanted this norm, then I ask you, why will within a year have to stop the work of the media whose founders of state or territorial autonomy, and under the Broadcasting Law, four more years will be able to work the media whose founders are local self-government or public enterprises local self-government financed from the budget. What is your goal, other than the political one, that perhaps after some new elections, having power in some local environments, you try to use these media for your propaganda purposes. So, all the media, no matter who their founder is, if he's financed from public income, so if they're both state and territorial autonomy, and local self-government units, they need to stop working within a year. As a lex specialis law, it can suspend these provisions of Articles 96 and 126. The law on broadcasting or behind it is hiding something else. I'd like to hear an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28632	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28633	Let me explain to the MP, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, who asked the question. An amendment has been accepted here, extending this deadline to two years. So it's not 12 anymore, it's 24 months. It became an integral part of the bill. I have to say, we need to read what's here carefully. This member says there cannot be state-run printed media at the level of the republic and at the level of the province. In other words, it doesn't exist anywhere in Europe, that the state owns the printed media. So "Justice" and "The Report" are gone. All major media in Europe today are in a different form of ownership. Not to explain why the state shouldn't own the media. That was Fight. So the rest of the time behind us and history is over. As far as local media is concerned, please take a closer look, it says here -- which are mostly financed from public incomes. This is where the two-year-old press release was left. We don't want for a whole series of cultural and other reasons to end them, that a series of these local media, printed, which are very high-quality, disappears. There are some, I wouldn't set aside for a pay phone that's useful. There are some that exist for 80 to 100 years. So we wouldn't want to break the tradition of those who are chronicles of those places. They played a big part in local self-government. We have here, by adopting the amendments, given a two-year deadline for having to be a majority privately owned. This does not mean that the municipality cannot own 49% of that and then balance itself, so that we do not have the burden that all citizens must in a given municipality to finance the vote, because the question is whether they want it, since otherwise it is not a practice. It gives a two-year deadline to find a private or some other stock investment; groups of citizens can be the majority owner, but the municipality has an influence on politics and this remains a local note, in which the municipality, or local community, can have minority property. As far as the Broadcasting Law is concerned, it's almost a year, four years is a deadline, practically three years left; we've increased here to two, but it's not the same thing, local printed media and electronics. They are generally more expensive and more time is needed to carry out their transformation and privatisation process, given that there are much larger investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28634	Just one explanation, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28635	Replica - National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28636	I didn't get the impression we were thinking the same thing. When you were burning on the public ballots, it made me think you were talking about printed media. However, the public votes are set out in Article 10. You didn't say printed here. You should have been precise. Public reports are according to article 10 of both the newspaper, radio and television programs. In Article 13, you don't say it's radio and television programs. You don't limit yourself here, so then you're talking about everything you've said, answering my question, which I've asked about this amendment. This can refer to both the printed media and the radio and television programs that have been publicized. You can't suspend my claim, it's been a year since the Law on Broadcasting was passed, that three more years of radio and television stations whose founders of the local self-government units will continue to operate. They've had to comply with this law in the past year. Those whose founder of state, I see here RTS, I see in the future the TV of Novi Sad, will have to stop working within a year. I know it's not your wish, it's not your will, but you've arranged this legal standard so that it can be concluded. It would be good for the government to make the amendment, to specify, so there's no confusion, because we don't know if we're going to have RTS in a year or not. As bad as I think about RTS, the editorial policy and the government's monopoly on RTS, the monopoly should have the Assembly, but well, with us all upside down, the state must have at least one electronic medium under its control because it's the interest of the state itself and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28637	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 13 on which the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs: Živodarka Dacin and Dusan Cvetkovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28638	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, respected fellow Members of Parliament, obviously this is a law on public information that has long been expected to come into the assembly procedure, and therefore has driven a great deal of interest from all MPs, and I would say, most notably, that perhaps the eye, not least, gives the definition of this Article 13, so that my colleague Cvetkovic and I, on behalf of the SPS Group, have suggested that in Article 13(2) be deleted or, I would say, that at least a little more skillfully defined. Why? Just because we were offered thought that it was electronic media and that it was simply not acceptable for us to say state or state bodies are not and cannot be, in fact, impossible to be the founders of the public vote. There are, I'd say some two reasons, first of all, the media are a miracle, they form public opinion, and regardless of that story from the past how RTS or any other public record, whether it's a regime, there's always some other television and some other newspaper, and whoever wanted to inform themselves objectively, could have looked at both or read it. Today it's all the same. Does everyone really interpret the right attitudes and objectively state the views of the government, the question is. We believe that, for the objectivity of information, there should be an opportunity for electronic media to be also the founder of states. On the other hand, there is something else, which is that the member predicts that, of course, the founder can even be a foreign citizen. Look, it's logical that a stranger can be the founder, I mean the original stranger, and that his interest can't be, let's just say, preserving our national identity as a people, dealing with history, culture, and even the economy, because what would be his interest. Because of all this, we believe that this should in some way be installed, although it is clear that this is a law to the extent of all the countries of the European Union, but we heard yesterday in a very correct climate that in all these countries there is a possibility that the state and state authorities can be renovated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28639	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28640	It is precisely because of the reasons you stated, meaning preservation and concern for national culture, the Law on Broadcasting, adopted a year ago, established public service - these are television and radio completely different from private ones. We have two public services due to Serbia's specificity, it's RTS and RT Novi Sad; whether it will change the name, it depends on them; but at this point at 12 o'clock, the elected people meet in the Assembly, you just chose them seven days ago, members of the Broadcasting Agency Council; they have to wait for the Telecommunications Act, the Assembly will get it in a few weeks, then they'll question the competitions for the assignment of frequencies, so they're giving permission to broadcast; but, not as far as RTS is concerned, because it has a guaranteed frequency, it doesn't have to appear at any competition; so, practically, it starts to transform RTS. Here only in law is what is already contained in that law, it is that the state can no longer own television or radio, or the province, in this case, the province of Vojvodina. I have to say, it's a European standard. Nowhere in Europe, the state doesn't own television. I know that many people have asked this question, whether under these conditions the state will have the opportunity to protect its national interest; it is a very legitimate question: yes, through public service. Please, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, look at the Law on Broadcasting, because it specifically states what public service must do and specifically writes - care for national culture, for national language; of course, it will not be private television, especially foreign, work, because there is no profit, there is no profit and there is no awareness of it, and we have to fight to preserve public service. I think the people you chose, these eight who are very different, are guaranteed that what you keep asking as a political question, RTS and RTS will be neutral. Then the objections, there are here and they are justified, that there is selectivity in the information, will go to the souls of these people in charge of taking care of broadcasting, television and radio, and especially of this public service. The government, the Parliament, will have nothing more to do with it, except in terms of some general concern about whether there are financial resources. So, the law was passed a year ago, he just defined public service as something he has to run, of course, national culture and so on. It is the only solution Europe knows today, the state television and the state radio are gone. Local self-government can keep local TV and radio within four years, practically now for three years, I accept; it only needs to determine ownership relations, it will have to make a contract, an agreement, that it has mixed ownership, because the municipality can own local television 40-45% and provide part of the program for itself, but it goes to privatisation and it's an expensive toy. I can't have citizens in every municipality paying for radio and television. Guys, we need to keep in mind this economic situation that we're in, we need to be realistic, so that still private investment is maintained, first of all, and the municipality can own 49%, have a big impact on the arrangement, because it's a big part of the property.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28641	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. In the name of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28642	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, members of the government, the Soviet Union has submitted an amendment to Article 13(2) to delete the text "unless a special law governing the area of broadcasting" after the word "public incomes". Why are we asking these words to be deleted? Because practice shows that lately many local self-governments in Serbia want to use this vacuum in legislation and this transitional period in final broadcasting provisions and to establish mostly television stations, in order to try to place their ideas, given that elections are approaching. Whether they will be this year, next year, in any case they must be, regardless of the desire of some of the authorities not to be at least by 2010, but the law is clear and will be in 2004. It's just a wish, not to use this vacuum, simply to ban this law from allowing local self-governments to be able to form public texts in the future, specifically to form television stations, to spend state, national money, and these couples are few and there are none more important. This also applies when it comes to culture, sport, infrastructure, municipal equipment of municipalities and so on. There's no money for that, but that's why TV stations have money. Just one example, since I come from the Jagodina municipality, a TV station in Jagodina, is seen only by the Jagodina municipality and perhaps three or four villages from the Jagodina area, this year will spend 22 million dinars from the state budget, or municipal budget. When we citizens, let's say from my local community, were asked to pave the way for some streets that haven't been paved since their release to this day, they say -- there's no money; but there's money to make sure that the leaders' wives show up on that television to talk to us about recipes and stuff. That's why we're asking for this to be erased in this article and I don't think anything will change the essence of a member, but it will make it impossible for local self-government to use this vacuum, this interspace, so that we don't let municipal money spill over tomorrow when there's privatisation in private pockets when these TVs are sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28643	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanović, Vladimir Andric and Vukosav Tomaševic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proponents accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Proposal to add new members. National MP Dragor Hiber once proposed that new members of 13a and 13b be added after Article 13. The Committee on Culture and Information has not accepted the amendment, as well as a representative of the motionor at the meeting of the Committee. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, and a representative of the proposing committee has adopted this amendment at its session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28644	Let me explain what this is about. A colleague Hiber suggested what once existed, so now this bill has changed, which is that the Ministry of Culture and Media is running the register of texts that exist. We felt, and the simpler the procedure, that it was enough impression, that everyone would write everything about himself, who owns, who's the publisher, address, etc. As you know, in the Trade Court, it has to show up, otherwise, that the Ministry of Culture and Media can get that list and update it. However, since fellow Hiber here is proposing and the Legislative Committee has adopted, when someone starts the report it must report, so the ministry is obliged to run the list. I don't see any particular reason not to accept it. I will now accept on behalf of the promoter after the Legislative Committee has accepted. We didn't think it was necessary, but since the Legislative Committee has accepted it, there will be no damage. Simply, the Ministry of Culture and Information will have an updated list of all the media that will receive directly from the founders, i.e. media drivers. On behalf of the motionary, I accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28645	The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 90 provides for supervision in the field of public information and here it is said that the supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by the Republic's authority of the state administration responsible for public information matters. It's one of the only provisions. What, how, where, on the basis of which, it doesn't say anywhere in the law, so a representative of the Ministry of Media comes to the publishing house, to a public record, to "News" and says, "Good afternoon, I'm here for surveillance, and he says, "Good afternoon, and you can go." And he doesn't have anything to do. From this it was necessary to monitor the intensities of the SRS amendment, where we asked that their natural person, based on constitutional powers, be the founder of the public vote and that it was normal for him to register with the competent ministry. If the founders are only legal persons, they shall be registered with the competent court under the Company Act. Then how will the Ministry have a list of all the media? Whether to go to court and say, "Give me a list of all the media in Serbia exist, whether electronic or printed." He won't. He won't have any knowledge of it. This is what Mr Hiber, or the Government, understood in time and tried to correct Mr Hiber's amendments. That's where the amendment came from. I'm saying, it was supposed to be intervened in article 13, and then this would only make sense, because this is how you force a legal person to double register. So he goes to court to register, and then he comes to the Ministry to sign up. That's illogical. Everyone is guaranteed the right, both physically and legally, to be the founder of the public record. It's normal for him to come to the ministry like that and sign into that register. Of course, then to provide for the ministry's powers in that regard. Otherwise, this provision of article 90 loses absolutely every meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28647	Do any of the other authorised participants regret the word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. There's a word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on public information to amend and read Article 14. "The distribution and distribution of domestic and foreign public reads freely. "The SRS, as a party of extremely democratic character, advocates full free information, for freedom of printing and broadcasting. The freedom of the press is looked at in the right to publish anything without any prior examination or control. Freedom of information is closely linked to other personal and political rights and freedoms, such as freedom of conscience and religion, teaching, communication, association and gathering. The SRS believes that freedom of opinion and information are a necessary condition for the rapid progress of human society and a prerequisite for the functioning of democracy and the development of personality. Your dosmanial predominance in society and state is based on totalitarianism and systematically chokes freedom of information, so thanks to you, Serbia is a classic example of the asphyxiation of this political freedom. You are fully in control of all kinds of information, so you can best see the nature and essence of your authority. The SRS considers that the freedom of the press must be guaranteed, except in cases of incentives to commit crimes. We, Serbian radicals, advocate a completely free exchange of information and the introduction of foreign printed goods into our country. Freedom of information must be absolutely guaranteed. The chaos of the government in the sphere of information, you are responsible for it, and it is seen that there are about 300 televisions of local self-government, but are not available exclusively for the SRS. On state television, RTS, none of the Serbian radicals can be a guest, nor can they have a session of the National Assembly. Printed media is literally the same content, created in one power center, mirrored as through an indigo. Apparently there is editor-in-chief Vladimir Popovic-Baba, and I assume Deputy Goran Vesic. We, Serbian radicals, expect nothing from you, anything that will benefit the citizens of Serbia in all spheres. Your fear is evident, and the end of your perditional reign. The sphere of information will be arranged by those who know and can and can for certain, the SRS. What kind of freedom of information is you, and what you stand for, the best evidence is "Plasm of the public", 16 April 2003, Serbian Culture and Media Minister Branislav Lecic said yesterday that TV Tristenik was fined with 50,000 dinars and her editor-in-chief, Dragoja Rajovic, with 30,000 dinars. The sentence was imposed because TV Triestenik was on April 10th, disrespecting the government's measures on the work of the media... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... During the state of emergency, rephrase the previously banned Open Studio show; that's what Lecic said in a conversation with the editors of Belgrade's media. This is false because the main problem of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Lecic is the visit of Tomislav Nikolic on TV Tristenik on 11 April...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28649	National MP, three minutes and 30 seconds. Here's a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28650	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the freedom of information has obviously begun with penalties, and the punishment is probably due to the fact that the show always starts with - God's help. It probably bothers Mr. Lecic. I don't know what else could have bothered him on that whole show. Article 14; when we say distribution, it primarily refers to the transmission of electronic media, the Internet, and does not refer to printed media. And if it did, you wouldn't be using both terms in article 1. Breaking up refers to printed media, and that is why there should be one and two terms in the article, in order to refer to all public messages. Otherwise, we will have the same situation as in Article 13, where it applies only to the printed media, and here Article 14 applies only to the electronic media. Following further Article 15, where there is a ban on discrimination on the public voice market, we again have distribution and ambiguity, so those who deal with electronic media and information in electronic media will interpret certain legal norms that apply to them, others that they do not apply, and those from the printed media again that those who do not refer to them, and not to electronic ones. I'd like to ask Madam Chairman, I really don't have the opportunity to install a mirror here, but I've noticed and I've heard that it's constantly gesticulating as one of us speaks, or it's hosting representatives of the government and the secretary. That's really rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28651	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Svetlana Stojanović, Vladimir Andrić and Vukosav Tomašević together submitted to the 15th amendment. Amendment applicants, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, withdrew this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Vladimir Andric and Vukosav Tomasevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the motionors accepted the amendment, with a legal and technical regulation agreed by the representative of the amendments, MP Svetlana Stojanovic, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with the legal and technical regulation, has become an integral part of the draft law. The 16th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rada Bajic and Nebojsa Jovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? There's a word from MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28652	Dear MPs, with counterpart Nebojsa Jovic, submitted an amendment to Article 16. In fact, Article 16 states that the district court may, on a proposal from the public prosecutor, prohibit the distribution of information on the propagation of war, and we added that after the words "propagation of war" the words "and the media war" should also be entered. What it's about; you're witnesses, indeed, to all the major war conflicts in the world, and also here, if anything were to happen, that the media war is actually artillery preparation for a real war. Because so far, it's such a powerful media machine that it's practically prepared public opinion and approved what would never have approved if it had learned the real truth. We're witnessing now, no matter what regime in Iraq, whether it's tyrannical or not, that it's under the pretext that chemical-biological weapons are being produced, that so many innocent lives have been destroyed, and nothing has been found in the end. Some time ago, we witnessed media preparation in the world that we violated human rights in Kosovo. Unfortunately, some of our independent media have also resorted to this information and there has been a bombing of the country, and yet so, innocent victims; and today, when terrorist action is repeated in southern Serbia, when mines are placed on roads and bridges are destroyed, it is also a terrorist act and must fight it. But then a media campaign was prepared to the extent that it was simply a worldwide opinion and approved the bombing. For this reason, we suggest that banning the spread of the media war be introduced, because we are witnesses, with all due respect for Members of the public words, be now, for example. On TV stations, they turn every day, even from an hour to an hour, just change the position in the chairs of TV studios, gentlemen from ruling parties, to satanize political opponents, to minority that all criminals, that all parties are criminal, which doesn't make any sense, at least on that round table. Come on, bring in someone else from that opposition, so he can stand up to the words, to prove himself. No one well-intentioned, no one normal and no one honest is against answering the one who's a criminal, to answer who's a criminal, or a thief, which the people say, but let's not all be like that and let it be said in one place, that it can be opposed in words, not so one-way that it's practically preparing public opinion that everyone but the ruling parties are not. I think you can really accept this amendment, because it's really devastating if that monopoly is allowed to lead the media war unilaterally when it comes to a phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28653	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28654	Dear fellow Members of the People, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 concerning the distribution of information. I have to read this Article 16 that says: "A competent district court may, on a proposal from the public prosecutor, prohibit the distribution of information if it finds it necessary in a democratic society to prevent war, encourage direct violence or advocate racial, national or religious hatred that is an incentive to discrimination, hostility or violence, and directly threatens information directly with a serious, irreparable consequence whose appearance cannot be prevented in any other way. "I don't know why the billmaker used these words "to prevent the propaganda of war", because these terms are neither in the Constitution nor in the Constitutional Charter, since they are contrary to human rights and freedoms, and especially with freedom of public information. To that end, I have suggested that this member of the law be changed and that it reads: "Among the motion of the public prosecutor, the competent district court may, by means of a court solution, prevent the disseminating of the press and the dissemination of other information in the public opinion if it finds itself calling for the destruction of the free democratic order, the existence and security of the state, violation of guaranteed freedoms and the rights of man and citizen, or the cause of hatred, impatience or domination." This is a more concise and better solution, which rejects this insurmountable proposal and I think that the Government and this House should accept this amendment. This is another reason why my amendment sets out the conditions under which to prevent the disseminating of the press and the dissemination of other information in the public record and determine the authorities that decide on that ban. The freedom of public information can be so, and only so much, that it does not violate constitutional order and territorial integrity and does not violate human freedoms and rights. If you'll excuse me, since I'm from Kosovo and Metohija, I'd like to point out that citizens of northern Kosovo Mitrovica do not have RTS-1, RTS-2, RTS-3 or any RTS programme to date. They're forced to watch Ship's TV programs or watch programs on a satellite network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28655	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28656	Ladies and gentlemen, when one member of the law says that a competent district court can, that means that it doesn't have to, and therefore it is necessary to reshape this Article 16 and to say, "On a proposal from the public prosecutor, the competent court may by a court order... ", it is known how the court decides. Someone involved in the litigation process had to help you with this, but the essence is in the second part of this article, where it is required to specify what needs to be prevented, what printing and dissemination of information to the public: that information calling for the destruction of the free democratic order, the existence and security of the state, the violation of guaranteed freedoms and the rights of man and citizen (you do not mention them at all), or the cause of hatred, impatience or domination. I think this, as we have suggested by amendment, is a better solution than the way the proposer imagined it. I expect that, after the adoption of this law, the public prosecutor will have his hands full and will then be able to propose appropriate measures whenever Vladan Batic goes on TV, and as of yesterday, he says, "The murder of Zoran Djindjic is not Vojislav Kostunica". What did he mean by that, that someone should kill Vojislav Kostunica? Is that where not only impatience is created, but now some call to settle the score between DSS and DS. That's how I realized, that's how many people understood. Will he have his hands full when Covic goes on TV and says everything he said about Mr. Seselj, the president of the SRS, that the Surcin and Zemun mafia are located on the territory of Zemun, and that Vojislav Seselj lives on Zemun's territory, and we had power until 1998 in Zemun, but he agrees with the building that was destroyed (he had the license, the city gave permission) whether he had the permit. Who's going to answer what's down, and it could have been confiscated, because we passed the law after 15 days. We've damaged the state, spent a lot of money to bring it down. The tapes are collected, but it looks like there's a copy somewhere. There must be a copy of them. Mr. Orlic said the SRS, whose president is in The Hague and is responsible for war crimes, should be banned. Gentlemen, his only crime is that he won in the presidential election 1,100,000 votes and nothing else. How can Orlic condemn him for war crimes? Let The Hague do its job, and let the DA here do his job.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28657	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28658	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. The proposal for a law on public information, by way of an error in the text of my amendment, is the word "degradation", so that the text of the amendment reads: "The proposal to prohibit the disseminating of the press and the dissemination of other information in the public opinion (hereinafter referred to as "proposal for ban") is submitted by the competent public prosecutor. If the publication and transmission of information from Article 16 of this Act cannot be prevented in any other way, the proposal for a ban may require a ban on the spread of the press, the withdrawal of copies of the press containing that information, the dissemination of other information in the public record and the ban on the transmission of information." What is the essence of the proposed amendment? The bottom line is that the competent state authority in other ways, in addition to the repressive measures on the ban on breaking up the press or preventing further flow of information, tries to prevent what is contrary to the previous Article of the 16th proposed law, which says "to prevent the propaganda of war; to defend racial, national or religious hatred etc." So, to try various ways, by warning or by pointing out that information in the press or information that flows on electronic media is harmful to society, that it is contrary to the provisions of Article 16 and that it should be the one that produces that information to do something by himself that does not go public and gets unwanted consequences. However, certain provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Articles 45, 46 and 72, which you are calling upon when submitting this bill, as well as Article 10. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is given full freedom of public information. It's a legal norm, rule. It's practically something else. I will mention the case of punishing TV Tristenik with 50,000 and the editor-in-chief with 30,000 dinars by the minister of culture and public information. This is contrary to the basic principles of freedom of public information and freedom of public expression, and it is contrary to international standards, and contrary to this bill. Mr. Minister, I am now interested in whether there is any legal basis for you to make such a decision or to order such a decision, because it is the opposite of a decision to impose an emergency, since Mr. Tomislav Nikolic did not mention the state of emergency or the reasons for the emergency decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28659	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28660	Amendment to Article 18 Public information law. Should the media be more free than the ones you used as an opposition? In Article 18, paragraph 1, the words "legal decisions on ban" shall be replaced by the words "legality of a decision on prohibition". Paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: "The motion set out in Article 1 shall be decided by the court within 12 hours of the time of receipt of the proposal". Paragraph 4 is amended and it reads: "By resolving the position of the 1st Member, the court orders the Home Secretary to suspend and hand over all copies of the press to the court deposit or seal and secure the room in which the press is located." This amendment shall specify the temporary prohibition procedure. You used all the media the way it suits you. By coming to power, you immediately suspended the Public Information Act. This could have been expected, because the previous law did not suit you ideologically, and that ideological line was a hatred for other political parties. You've been putting into the air your comments that have caused today's level of information. The goal of all your comments is to destroy Serbian patriotism, and to cultivate a civil society that aims to destroy everything Serbianly. You have destroyed the state, borders, geography, economy, economy, health care, education, culture, freedom of movement, freedom of words, you have destroyed the future of the Serbian people, but not for long, since in the next election all of this will be returned to the people at their disposal. This Article 18 of the Law proposes temporary bans, as in the entire set, and here they are from 15th to 24th members of this law. The motive of all your laws is the mentors who comply with your reform laws, against which we Serbian radicals. A vacuum of a few years isn't an excuse. The law is passed at a time of emergency. I'm surprised the people who do this job are silent today. No, no, they just stopped. They will have a difficult task in the future to remove the law from the political scene. The law was also proposed before the government signed by the police minister, and reportedly was built and built by people from the profession, both informative and legal blocs. It's not like that. You admitted there was chaos in the media sphere. This chaos will be increased by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28661	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Slavka Pavlovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. Proposal for a public information law. Article 19 is amended and reads: "The procedure in which the proposal for a ban is resolved is urgent. The search must be completed within 48 hours of the time of receipt of the proposal for prohibition. The review of the proposal for a ban can also be held without the presence of properly invited parties, which the parties are specifically warned about in a pisbee search. "The draft law provides for a review of the proposal for the ban on public ballots to be held within three days. Although that deadline may seem temporary at first sight, I suggested that the deadline be reduced to 48 hours. I think it is necessary to shorten the deadlines in the ban procedure due to the importance of timely information. Information is to be used immediately, not after three days, when it is no longer interesting and significant. In the amendment, I also predicted that the terms "the search must be carried out" were replaced by the terms "the search has to be concluded", because the search held does not necessarily mean that the procedure is completed, and I think the urgency of the procedure requires it to be done within 48 hours, i.e. to conclude the procedure. Of course, it doesn't matter much to you in DOS how something is regulated. You can punish and ban public hearings without legal regulation. Minister Lecic, like other officials, has widely used the state of emergency to lift some newspapers or punish some television. Since he had no legal basis for what he was doing, Minister Lecic explains to the public that a daily newspaper was temporarily banned because of horoscopes published by the newspaper on 12 March this year. In the absence of the information law, a good cause for ban is also a horoscope. And it's one of the fluids of democracy. I'm no longer surprised by you, but what has been said and written in public information in the last month is truly unseen in the modern world. Each representative of the government is slandered without pardons, I guess because they knew that Serbia had no information law, but that's why we, Serbian radicals, used regular courts and existing criminal legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28663	Does anyone else sign up for a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28664	I would like to, gentlemen, to know why the Law on the termination of the Law on Public Information has ceased to apply, in addition to the provisions relating to the entry into the register of public reads and the publication of answers and corrections, when you have abolished everything in Chapter 8, of that Law, as regards preventing the breaking up of the press and the dissemination of information in public journals and other means of public information, from Articles 42 to 53, by extending certain deadlines. For example, the time limit when a solution to temporarily prevent the decommissioning of the shampoo and other means of public information is brought by the competent court on a proposal from the competent public prosecutor; it was six hours from the arrival of the proposal, and you are now prescribing a longer period of 12 hours, or 12 hours. We think it's more appropriate for these deadlines to be as short as possible, because it's about information that spreads quickly, conveys and where decisions should be made quickly. So there was no basis for these provisions to be suspended at the time. But at that moment, probably on February 15, 2001, in that euphoria after the revolution, everything the previous government had brought was to be annulled. Since we have established this standard, I think we will very quickly abolish all that this assembly has brought, given how it is drawn up, illegally, because here 20 people are constantly deciding, although there is no MP status or at least not in accordance with the law. You've made it possible for us with your behavior for these almost three years of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28665	No more sign-ins for the word. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? (No) People's MPs Radojko Petrovic and Joca Arsic submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28666	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on behalf of the SPS, along with my colleague Joco Asic, I have tabled an amendment to Article 20. A bill of this law. This article determines that, on a proposal from the competent public prosecutor on the prohibition of distribution, the competent court of the district court must carry out an emergency search and, immediately after the search has been completed, make a solution and publish it without delay. It is further determined that the solution must be drawn up in writing and its certified transcript submitted to the parties within three days of the date of publication. I remind you, this is done in cases where a public prosecutor estimates that information propagates war, encourages direct violence or advocates racial, national or religious hatred. Starting with the fact that the procedure is rightly conducted by an emergency procedure, it is inappropriate to leave a long deadline, three days after the publication of the solution, for how long the court must draw up a solution in writing and deliver it to the party. By amendment, we suggest that this three-day deadline be reduced to 24 hours. A reduction in the time limit is proposed to reduce the ex post costs that can cause a solution to the ban on the distribution of information. The decision delivered to the parties in a shorter period will allow for a shortening of the time for appeal and a possible litigation procedure, i.e. resulting in a reduction in costs and compensation for damages, if the party succeeds in a complaint or in a litigation procedure. Given that, apart from morals, large amounts of material damage, that fact should affect the acceptance of this. Take, for example, the solution to confiscation of the entire circulation of newspapers. The proposed 24-hour deadline for making and delivering solutions in writing to the parties is realistic and the court can respect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28667	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28668	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dissatisfied with the way the SRS MPs treated in this distinguished home in recent days, according to the MPs of the SRS, there are numerous warnings...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28669	Please go back to the subject so I don't have to say the warning again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28670	I'll be back on the subject, I was free to address you and say that I'm dissatisfied with what seems to be so, because there's no excuse for such a thing, to sharpen and to give every detail a reminder. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 23, paragraphs 1 and 5. The first point states that the appeal against the first-degree court's ruling is submitted within three days of the date of delivery of the copy of the solution. We Serbian radicals believe this time should be reduced because it is of great importance. It is the means of public information and perhaps very important information for the public, and therefore we propose that the deadline be two days. Paragraph 5 states that the second-degree court decides to appeal within three days; we also suggest that the deadline be reduced to two days, as this would remove certain irregularities, and the stupider would be more efficient and comprehensive. Paragraph 2 of Article 23 states: "A complaint shall not be delivered to the opposite party for an answer." I think the procedure is conducted under the provisions of the Law on Prosecution. If so, then the opposing party must be allowed to respond to the appeal, because otherwise it would be denied constitutional law. You have the right to appeal, but the other side has the right to respond. This would complete some data, give a more complete answer, help the second-degree court, if possibly something was missed in the first-degree court when a first-degree settlement was reached. I believe that this amendment should be accepted and that this time should be shortened, because it would have an impact on the efficiency and integrity of the conduct of the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28671	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment with correction was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by the peoples: Radojko Petric and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28672	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, as the chairman said, with my colleague Radojko Petric, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29. This is the first member to regulate the issue of editors, journalists, professional associations of journalists, talking about the duties of the editor-in-chief and who can have the capacity of the editor-in-chief. So he's editing this matter regarding the editor-in-chief and the editor-in-chief. Our amendment in Article 29 complements Article 5, which reads: "The editor responsible cannot be a person who enjoys immunity from responsibility". We have suggested that after the word "responsibility" be added "no one can be on the payroll of another legal person who is not the founder of that public note". It means that the editor-in-chief and the editor-in-chief cannot have income, nor can he be in a working relationship with others, including public opinion. It only binds itself to a public record, and materially, in an idiosyncratic relationship, or whatever you want, in which it leads the editorial policy. That was the essence of our amendment. The adoption of this amendment would eliminate the negative consequences of conflicts of interest and would prevent the granting and favouring of a legal person to the detriment of a public note in which the person is responsible editor. So someone else could pay him, favor him, that in that public voice he creates some interest that is not in line with the interests of that message. I don't know what this amendment would disrupt the concept of the law, what would make this law worse, but it would help to make this even more detailed, and to disable what I was talking about by trying to explain this amendment, but obviously, nobody on the Committee on Culture, and neither here, listens, so I don't see any particular purpose. Thank you. I think the argument was that this amendment could be accepted by the Assembly in order to improve the text of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28673	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28674	I think, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment that my colleague explained is in place. We don't just have to go over who's funding who's on whose payroll. The editor-in-chief, at least declaratively, is formally led by the editor-in-chief, the editor-in-chief-in-chief, and the editor-in-chief-in-chief, that we are not talking about the non-institutional existence of anything else. Public policy is run by whoever is funding it. Again, we come to the fact that there are absolutely no independent media, as there are none. If it's true that the editor-in-chief pays for someone outside the house he works for, then it's clear who he works for. We have a disagreement not only of function and conflicting interests. Maybe the editor as a journalist thinks one thing, but whoever pays him asks him to do something else and then we don't have real, objective information. It's the same in parliament. The same person can't be a MP and a member of the government. A member of the government may be legally, but he cannot be a deputy minister, such as Mrs. Aleksandra Joksimovic, nor could Mr. Vesic, nor could Mr. Sutanovac, nor Srdja Popovic. There's a conflict of interest. As soon as there's a conflict of interest, there's no valid decision. He doesn't know a man that two people listen to when he's doing something. In this case, there is no need to ignore the importance of money, because it has much to do with it. What they say is, "The couple spins where the burgie won't." We could see that by now. No wonder the president of the Democratic Centre's party, the president of the National Assembly, Mr. Micunovic asks himself, after all these troublemakers: "And where are the money? "I guess he didn't get his share.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28675	I warn you to take care of what you say, since this was the same as a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28676	A nice man on TV asked, "Where's the money? ".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28677	Is there still a word report? The 30th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Vladimir Andric and Vukosav Tomaševic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Both MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic submitted to the 31st amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the representative of the amendments want a word? He has the word of the People's Messenger Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28678	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party, I represent the amendment to Article 31 of the proposed law. This member defines what is considered a journalist's secret and reads: "The reporter is not obliged to disclose information related to the source of information unless the data refers to a criminal offence, or perpetrator of a criminal offence for which the prison sentence has been threatened for at least five years." A Serbian Unity Party parliamentary group suggests that instead of "five years" it stands "three years". Here's why. In the light of the new provisions of the Criminal Code of Yugoslavia, recently adopted, in particular Article 136, by which it is for certain crimes, to remind you, from Articles 114 to 119 and Article 119. 120, 123, 125, 129, and 132, the suspended sentence of at least three years, and it is criminal acts against constitutional arrangements and security of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, we propose that an amendment to the Serbian Unity Party be adopted so that the journalist's secret cannot be considered to reveal, or undetectable information concerning criminal acts that have been threatened by the minimum sentence of three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28679	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28680	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, with my fellow SPS colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32. The current proposal reads: "The journalists can freely organise their professional associations, in accordance with a special law governing citizens' associations. "We add two new attitudes: "News associations can bring their codes - rules of professional work and behavior. All news associations must be equal before the law." Although the law has given general places that can define what is the subject of our amendment, I do want to say that there is a fundamental difference between journalists and politicians. Politicians are required, especially if they are in power, to affirm social reality, journalists have an obligation to publicly criticise. It's not good for politicians to always prescribe rules for journalists. It may happen if this amendment is not accepted, that one of the press associations is favored, or that could happen under other circumstances. That's why we think accepting our amendment might avoid it. There are other reasons why we have submitted this amendment; first of all, because, regardless of what it looks like today, it may happen that someone who has political ambitions gathers a number of journalists who can form their own professional association and then, in the same sense, can abuse that association, or use their action for their political needs. I believe that this could be avoided and we ask the Deputy Prime Minister, as the official motion for an act that here on behalf of the Government listens to our argument, to accept the amendment that we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28681	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you are, the word has the People's MP, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28682	Since the first day of the debate, we have been immediately against this law, because the proposer's explanation first expressed the great agreement of international organisations and white world advisers who advise us on what laws we should pass and which are not suitable here for us. This amendment to Article 33 clearly specifies what cases the Association of Journalists takes to protect journalists and such a precise formulation would avoid mixing the association with disputes that are not related to the profession of journalists. It may happen that a journalist, past his profession, commits some criminal act for which he should be prosecuted and that the association is given the right to interfere in such cases and take him into protection. It should be clearly specified that the association can only be put into the protection of journalists in relation to members of the law from 30 to 33, where his professional and human rights are really threatened, and not that in his private life the association can interfere and protect him, regardless of what he should not do in normal situations. Listening to this freedom of the press you're propagating to all your mouths, I'm going back to some period of my youth when I read "Cinderelly," so when an evil woman opens her mouth, it turns out to be a toad. And what we're experiencing in the media darkness, particularly, has been expressed now during this informational blockade and emergency. People of power and those who are being added to power appear, talking about everything and everything, and not responding to anyone, nor to those who attack you give the opportunity to defend themselves from such statements and insinuations. For the past two and a half years here, the parliamentary majority has voted all sorts of things. Remember the famous vote, that it is no insult to you to call someone a court fool; you voted here and said it was no insult. In view of that, in order to remind you of what you voted for, I would say, in the mind of the court fools, reject this law, because the media darkness that you are about to bring about by passing this law will quickly break your head. Two-thirds of your term has passed...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28683	I'm warning you of overtime, and on the subject, you're talking past the subject, please finish. Thank you. Is there another application for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Svetlana Stojanović, Vladimir Andrić and Vukosav Tomasevic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proponents accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. At the title of Chapter VII and Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Chapter VII by replacing the word "obligation" with the word "debt" and Article 34(1), where the word "obligation" is replaced by "debt". We believe that this is better termologically correct, because the obligation is used in the bond law, while the word - duty - or - duty is used in public law, and this legislative project is an act in the field of public law. For these two years, the motionors, as they wrote the law, had plenty of time to comply with all these terms, but I am not surprised that the Vice-President of the Government did not know what terms were adequate and more acceptable to this legislative project and I am not surprised that the Minister of Culture and Media -- he is now likely to punish some other media, he appeared here for a few minutes, is not the goal of listening to what MPs were saying and what amendments they submitted to his legislative project, but rather of introducing order in the media sphere until the entry into force of this law -- but I am surprised that the Secretariat for the legislation of the Republic of Serbia's Government did not read this legislative project in detail and harmonised these terms. We insist on them, because we believe that Serbia, as a serious country, which should be a serious country, should have serious laws. We believe that the government should accept this amendment, because it does not essentially change the legal project itself, but the law itself becomes more written and more serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28685	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28686	Article 34, ladies and gentlemen, belongs to the Head of Special Rights and Obligations in Public Information, with the subtitle - Temporary keeping of the record of the public record, and we have given the amendment to it. We have now heard that the government has adopted the amendment of the MPs of the DOS - Reform of Serbia to the means of information, mandatory to keep individual records for more than 30 days, all must be kept for 90 days, which is just astounding to me. Those deadlines are set in accordance with the deadlines of the procedure under the proposal for a ban, the damage, the appeal against the first-degree court's resolution. It has been estimated that 30 days is enough to keep some records in order to prove something in court. That's their only goal. The 90-day extension is obviously due to the reasons these MPs gave, that there are about 1,000 media in Serbia, that it will be very difficult for the government and Minister Lecic to track down just about 1,000 media. We, MPs of the opposition, will still be able to reach some media, at least those private, whether it's radio or TV stations. It takes 90 days. In three months, however, one service can examine it all. You won't be able to keep everything under control for 90 days. Yesterday, I suggested to Mr. Lecic that he take all the tapes, audio or video that exist in TV studios or radio stations where we were visiting, take the liberty of making his own archives and watching them. We have nothing to be ashamed of or afraid of. Everything we say, we stand behind it. We can prove everything. He can learn a lot from them. So we don't mind the government adopting this. She apparently estimated that it was necessary to form a new body that would further update everything and subsequently revise everything that MPs, people from other political parties who thought completely different from them, worked and spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28687	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Joca Arsic submitted together to the 34th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28688	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, on behalf of SPS, my colleague Joca Arsic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 34. The proposal for a law on public information, which determines the specific rights and obligations of public information, is temporary keeping of the record of the public note. According to Article 34, the founder of the public record is required to keep one copy of the public record, each issue, each issue of newspapers and other printed public journals, a recording of the entire one-day broadcast of TV or radio programs and other records of other public messages. And that: newspapers and other printed public journals 60 days from the day of publication, and we have no objections here. We've intervened with the amendment to replace the number "30" with "60" in Item 1. This means that video of radio broadcasts or TV shows is stored for 60 days, not 30 days. There is no valid reason to differ in relation to the obligation to keep records in printed texts, electronic media and other texts. This can no longer be justified even by some technical reasons. Equality of record keeping time provides the same treatment for all media, which should be one of the objectives of the public information law, if we want a valid law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28689	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28690	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, is the question of whether or not it has any purpose to explain this amendment, given the information that the government has adopted the amendment that the founders of the public ballots are obliged to temporarily keep records of the public reads for 90 days. However, the Soviet Parliament's group has submitted an amendment to Article 34 paragraph 2 where the legislator proposes to record the broadcast of radio and television emissions, the founder must keep 30 days from the day of transmission. This and all other deadlines are bound to both the right to respond or the right to correct information. However, the Soviet Union proposes to cut this deadline for radio and TV broadcasting, i.e. broadcasting funds, to 10 days. Let me try to explain this attitude. I was also on the other side of the camera, i.e. with people who technically form a TV program. They've introduced me to the problems they're facing. Neither the accommodation nor the financial capacity of many TV houses provide an opportunity, especially if television has a full day’s program and its own production, creating such an archive where all the material recorded on tape would be stored 30 days from the day of the broadcast. I would like to remind those who are not familiar with the technique of recording and copying: one tape can record multiple contributions and it can be recorded multiple times; it is a kind of economicity in the work of TV houses. The purchase of new tapes, while those with recorded material have been blocked for 30 days, in any case additional financial burdens on TV houses. For exceptional reasons, we have also proposed this kind of amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28691	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Branislav Grubački and Novica Djuraskovic submitted. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Svetlana Stojanović, Vladimir Andric and Vukosav Tomasevic submitted to the 35th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) There is a word from the People's Messenger Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28692	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, of the 35th proposed law, is being implemented and defined by the right to gain insight into the record of the public record. The Soviet Union proposes to delete the position of the 2nd member in full, and it puts it: "The obligation set out in Article 1 exists according to any person of legal interest, if in writing it requires insight, i.e. copying and presupposing the actual costs of an insight, i.e. copying." We think enough of that is said precisely in the first place. Let me explain what we're proposing, among other things, to erase this other attitude. Whether we want to admit it or not, each of us has a certain degree of self - love or vanity. De facto, that's what man's entire activity is about. Translated into a common dictionary, each of us wants to be seen or seen on television. That's why the term "legal interest" is a broad term, so it requires when looking for a copy and a written explanation - which is why it's wanted. So, this broad term also allows for an explanation that a copy of the material shown on television, with a minimum advance, is delivered to the person so-called. private archive, with an explanation that The street survey did not broadcast his entire statement, but only part that changes the meaning of the statement. This adds to the technical service in TV houses or TV stations. Despite the enormous burden of broadcasting a technical quality program, it is additionally burdened to meet, let me say, but also certain vanitys, which are not deprived of many of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28693	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radojko Petrovic and Joca Arsic submitted to the 35th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28694	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, along with my colleague Joco Arsic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 35. This article provides that the founder of a public message is obliged to place, on his request, any person of legal interest, on the basis of the recorded records of the public record or to copy them. Enabling or receiving copies of the records shall be conditional upon the submission of requests in written form and by the payment of actual costs. The amendment proposes to delete the obligation to apply in writing. It is enough that it remains a commitment that actual costs must be previously paid. It is unnecessary to formalise, to be required to write and submit a request in writing. An interested person with a legal interest, by the very fact that he comes to the founder of a public message and is willing to pay certain costs in advance, is legitimate enough to allow him to be able to see, or copy the record of a public note. Take, for example, the person whose name is mentioned in the public note, it proves by the ID card, that it's about him, pays the actual costs, and why do we now complicate the procedure, to write and file a request in writing? A person should not be prevented if he wishes to submit a request in writing, but not prescribe it to be an obligation in any case. It is necessary to avoid unnecessary procedures and it is logical for the amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28695	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakić. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 36 instead of a point, it is stuck and it adds the text "no matter who the information comes from". If an amendment to the SRS was adopted, Article 36 would read: "No one shall be designated as a perpetrator of any criminal act, or shall be declared guilty or liable before the judicial or other competent authority's decision, regardless of which information it originates". The amendment provides that no one should publish the information provided for in this article, nor should the minister, nor should the Prime Minister, accuse anyone, declare him guilty, without a judicial verdict. We are witnessing that under conditions of emergency ministers do not do their job, but only perform on the media and race for more slander at the expense of political opponents. There are countless examples. The ministers in most cases, including DOS MPs themselves, are ahead of them. That's what we're confident about through all the media. (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: not true. You say it's not true, but it's true. The Minister of Agriculture does not solve the problems of the overpriced artificial fertilizer, the low price of cattle, but condemns some people in advance with his statements and thus influences the court. There's a lot of cases like that. Of course, canak, Lecic, Mr Batic and the other ministers are particularly prominent, and our people say this well and say, "Everything comes back and pays for everything." That is why Serbian radicals fully specify Article 36 with this amendment and determine that neither ministers nor other authorities of the state nor the presidents of political parties, citizens etc. they cannot designate anyone as a perpetrator of any criminal offence, or guilty or responsible before the judicial or other competent authority's decision. The assumption of innocence must exist, everyone must be absolutely protected, until otherwise proven in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28697	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28698	Ladies and gentlemen, the assumption of innocence is a general presummation of innocence, with us contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in criminal and other proceedings. It is assumed that everyone should respect it and that no one can be found guilty before the court makes its own decision and says it is guilty. Until then, he's a suspect. We have a situation, at least now, in the last month, that certain senior officials of individual political parties, and even representatives of the government, are talking about who is the taskmaster of the late prime minister's murder, and that connects it to the people who are at the head of certain opposition political parties. He, therefore, blames them in advance, pronounces the verdict and in public opinion creates reluctance towards these people, which is inevitable. We can't ignore the importance of electronic media, they're a particularly striking fist, compared to written media, can't exactly be evened out. I think these electronic media are significantly ahead of it. Of course, we are in favour of clearing up in Serbia with crime, but it does not give people the right of authority to do something, and before giving a statement to an investigative judge, say guilty; so should all those arrested be treated as well. One day you say he's been arrested for a relationship with the Zemun clan, after five days read in the paper -- he's been sentenced for trespassing. This is inappropriate to the rule of law, and therefore we should not be allowed to be reported daily by the media about what one of those arrested in custody said, because it not only interferes with the investigation, as Dusan Mihajlovic says, but leaves the impression that someone is guilty even before the sentence is imposed. Remember the Milanovic case; the judge, making the verdict, said - I have no evidence, but it seems right, given that the atmosphere of lynch and guilt has been created for months and years. Who's to blame for what happened at RTS, I assume it's Solana, Tony Blair, and all those who ordered the bombing. Such an atmosphere was created that the judge had no other way out, but to give the verdict she gave.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28699	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 37th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28700	A member of the 37th proposed law, voted against by the SRS parliamentary group, has been referring to a coin that has not existed in Serbian since the time of the world and the century. For those who have not tried to study Serbian script and Serbian grammar, it is not worth telling them. Before such a provision entered the law, we told them that something called hate speech does not exist. It exists in certain circles extremely anti-Serbian, which receive money from their mentors from the West, from Americans, from their friends from Europe. There are also various sessions that they organise among political parties most exhibited in this regard, with no 0,05% in the electoral body. What you wanted to explain in that article, what you are calling for to be banned, is a clear surplus, although it cannot be subjected to hate speech as such, because it is contained in the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, more specifically in Article 51. On the grounds of Article 16 of the Law, we have already talked about this and Mrs Pop Lazic about our amendment, and there is also a sanction for what someone would have caused by such an act. The other thing is much more important here, and it is a sanction and a measure for public officials, not contained in the proposal for this law, Mr. Korac, and it concerns something that is causing impatience and hatred among people at all. If someone wants to say to himself that he is a true democracy, that he is fighting for freedom and for human rights, then he must also fight against that the bearers of the highest state functions, and also representatives of some marginal political parties and individuals from those parties, related to various affairs, where women's persons are concerned, cannot get space on state and other televisions to talk about a political group -- which he currently has behind him, and that number will be larger, millions and 100,000 voters, 350,000 -- that he has fascism interference, because they have never read anything about fascism. If we're already talking about the general lynch atmosphere, the impatience atmosphere, I assume that when you're talking about hate speech or your political relatives, first of all, think about what is inappropriate to say or what is not according to the standards of your Western mentors. If it can be undermined by hate speech at all, in my opinion and in the opinion of all honorable Serbs, it is that they are left without being able to do, which they have no ability to feed their children, and what you, on the other hand, enjoy all the benefits and what has proved to be the worst possible power in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28701	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28702	It is really hard to add something after Natasha Jovanovic, but in addition to this amendment, it is that this legal norm is already contained in Article 16. The bill, in an act relating to the ban on the distribution of information, i.e. public ballots, tells what the competent court can do on a proposal from the public prosecutor to prohibit, if all that you mean by hate in the means of information appears. Neither is discrimination our term, nor is hate speech, but it is symptomatic what you mean by hate. It's civilized for you when you tell someone he's a fascist, and it's uncivilized when I say it's because he told me I'm a fascist liar and a criminal, because he's been hanging out with Opačić and he's involved with a criminal gang. Then it's uncivilized. In such situations we often get a warning or can even Mihajlovic invite us to take statements from us. What's hate speech? Don't let us deal with some floscules here, someone told us to stand by it, but to act in accordance with our customs so far acquired, in accordance with our language. The synonyms and the richness of language should define how we behave and how we express ourselves. Are you saying someone's telling a lie or telling a lie? Is it harder to say he's a liar or told a lie? You'll say it's hate speech if you say he's a liar. What do we do when our language is such that we can use all these terms? I think the truth really affects the most, but we can't get away from it. What they say is, "The sworn land of heaven swears to keep secrets all known." So what's today's hate speech for you, it doesn't have to be tomorrow. It can be a difficult, difficult truth, which can have far-reaching consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28703	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Nesovic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Radojko Petrovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28704	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, MPs Dusan Cvetkovic, Radojko Petric and I have submitted an amendment to Article 37 of the Law on Public Information. This article states that it is forbidden to publish ideas, information and opinions that encourage discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons because of their belonging or not belonging to a race, religion, nation, ethnic group, gender or their sexual commitment. We suggested that after the word "ethnic group" the words "political and professional organisation" should be added. So, the amendment proposes to prescribe the same ban on publishing ideas, information and opinions that encourage discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons because of their belonging or not belonging to a political and professional organisation. We know there is intolerance between members of various political and professional organisations. The need to accept this amendment is imposed. We can be participants in the fact that, when it comes to religion, nations, ethnic groups, gender, sexual commitment, there is less and less, and there is almost no discrimination and hate speech. And when it comes to political parties or political party officials, there's hate, various insults, and I think we're acting like they're not political insolences, they're the biggest enemies. I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28705	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Vladimir Andrić and Vukosav Tomašev, together with the amendment proposed mutually related changes in Articles 37, 38 and 39. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proponents accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28706	What the legislator in article 37 called hate speech is essentially a crime of insult and defamation. Since this matter is regulated by Criminal Law, and I hope it will also be codified by the criminal code of Serbia, I have suggested that Article 38 be deleted. It's a bill of law. Insults and slanders can also be expressed by the speech of love and pain, not just by hate speech. For example, if a mother finds out that her son is gay and she, in despair and pain, goes out on a public show or some newspaper and says that her son has become a homosexual because, for example, a member of the government or president of a political gay party, he has persuaded him to do so, along the way says a series of insults and slanders; so insults and slanders have in that case arised as a speech of the mother's pain. Otherwise, a coin of "hate speech" was introduced into Serbian by Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco. Whenever that woman appears in public, with so much hatred, she speaks first of all about her people that it is terrible to listen. This same woman, led by hatred, presents daily public appearances of a series of slanders and a series of insults at the expense of our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj. It can compete for the first place in saying insults and slanders with Nebojsa Covic, who also as a consequence of hatred of the SRS daily presents a number of slanders and insults. That's what he said last night (coworker Pop-Lazic tried to say several times, but every time she was at the end of time so she didn't get to finish) that the Zemun municipality at the time of the radical government issued a building permit to Dusan Spasojevic for that big shopping mall that was destroyed. Gentlemen, you should know that building permits for this kind of facility are given by the City Assembly, so if you gave it, in your day it was built and you see why you destroyed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28707	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28708	Article 39 regulates liability and discharge. It is clearly said that the responsibilities of possible discrimination are free of journalistic or scientific text, if it is published without the intention of fostering discrimination or with the intention of critically pointing to discrimination. Nothing is unclear, except for the act, and we have been arguing here for a long time with other members, where a coin of "hate speech" was inserted, one general place. The impression is that it was simply done with intent. Because what does hate mean? In addition to this word - discrimination, which is clearly defined, is inserted into the word hate. It is inserted with the intention that one who is able, in a position or in a function to explain, he will explain what hate is. As my colleague from the SRS used to say before me, hate is regulated by criminal law. But we've had a phenomenon lately. My colleague Korać said that for 10 years he was an opposition, he just forgot to say that he was a constructive opposition, unlike us, the radicals brought here by the Special Forces, and you, a colleague, watched with pleasure. Here, there's a colleague of Evlie Celebius, speaking figuratively, he's a living witness. You should have seen, while you were an opposition MP, now it doesn't matter what your role is, that history will explain, then you should have seen how that language of hate, the definition of hate language, political inculture, and new coins can be abused when it comes to opposition. Don't lose sight of yourself, colleague Korach, that you'll be in opposition again. Now you're making a law that will be proud of you when you're in opposition. What's hate? If a member of the ruling coalition blames in front of the TV cameras of the SRS leader that he has directly organised the assassination, that he is involved in the organisation, it is not hate, it is democracy, it is democratic law. If a member of the SRS, in this case the deputy president of the SRS, on the local TV Tristenik for the purpose of defence, gives arguments that that is not the case, if he says any word relating to the ruling coalition, that is the language of hatred. The owner of that television has to pay the fine. Let me tell you in the end, when we come to power, we won't change your laws, they're ideal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28709	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. We continue the debate at 3:10 p.m. [[After a break.]] Please, in order to determine the covorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that we have a quorum for work and decision-making. We continue the debate in detail on the proposal for a law on public information. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? There is a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28711	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vice President, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary cult, I have proposed an amendment to Article 43. He's more of a formal nature. It's about publishing information from private life and personal records. There's been a cut in that line here. In the past, it was thought that a person could publish this information, as well as in the succession and resolution of other legal acts, which are related to individual cases. But now it's changed. So we suggest that the words "from the age of sixteen" be deleted, and that they say "from the age of eighteen". You know that in many countries in the world, adulthood comes at 21st year, about 20, somewhere at 18; it's 18 years old and I don't see why we would move that line, although at first sight it's about publishing some information; that information, these records and these notes can pull along and large material resources, depending on what notes and records are about. This as soon as we can reduce that limit to 16 years and to a protected witness, or to various receptions of television shows, etc. That's why I think there's room for this line to move to 18 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28712	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. On the basis of Article 142(4) of the Legislative Committee, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected the amendment as incomplete, so this amendment cannot be discussed at the session of the National Assembly. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28713	The amendment to Article 44 point 1(3) should add the words "in a public place" after the word "cause". Since this amendment is regulated when consent is required and permission to publish certain data which may have various consequences for a person, it is offensive to refer to a specific person, this article of the law should be specified in this way. A good example is the company DIFENS-ROUD, the famous Chummet, the current protected witness. The company's headquarters is in Vranj. Mr Nebojsa Covic made an extremely expensive deal with the company, and says he does not know the gentleman. (President: Please stick to the agenda. ) The company performed works on the territory of southern Serbia. The business was concluded between the Coordination Centre, namely Mr Nebojja Čović and Mr Cumet, who owns "DIFENS-ROUD". The company's headquarters is at a gas station in Vranje. (President: I warn you to return to the agenda topic. ) Mr Nebojsa Covic said in public that he did not know the Kumet and members of the Zemun clan.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28714	For contempt of my warning, I give you a notice under Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28715	I don't know how a man can present to you an example of a functioner, of someone who publicly appears on television every night and says he doesn't know certain people, and he's actually doing multimillion-dollar jobs with them. Now these people, where it's based, end up in prison, and you can't bring government officials to the bare facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28716	Is there any more complaints about this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28717	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after the chapter on the rights of the person to whom the information applies and when the consent for publication should be given by other persons, Article 44, of course the following concept of this head, determines when there is no need for consent to publish some information, and these are cases where that person intended the information, or the record, to the public, meant that he wanted to get to know the public about the fact. Under point 3) it is the case where this person has given its behaviour a reason for publishing information, i.e. the record, and by us, too broad interpretation is possible, so we have added that it is necessary for a situation to occur in a public place, in order that someone might, without the consent of that person, publish that information or record. You know, if you're doing a job, say an actor, so it's the fall that requires you to show up without a wardrobe or in some situation that, for art creation, is not suitable for that person to appear in private life in the same position or position. If a picture of NedeArneric appears on the front page as an integral part of one of her films, that's fine. It can be published, because it was done in order for the public to see it. But if that same person, let's say on the beach, showed up in topless even though he had more clothes, that's already something that could be interpreted this way as we suggested by the amendment. So it wouldn't be necessary for that person's consent if that photo appeared on a duplicate or on the front page. Point 4 is also very interesting, it says that information, i.e. a record made in a public assembly debate or in a public debate in a congregation body, also does not require pressure to publish, but we are unfortunately in a situation where it should appear here that it is the obligation of one who monitors certain events in the Assembly to transfer this information to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28718	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28719	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 46(1) provides that the person to whom the information is personally relevant may request his right or interest from the editor responsible to publish, without compensation, an answer claiming that the information is incorrect, incomplete or incorrectly transmitted. Here in the 1st word "adjusted to harm his right or interest" I suggest that they be deleted, because it is a questionable explanation of what it is appropriate to harm the right or interest of the man on whom the information is transmitted. We can expect that there will be a lot of abuse, especially as the editor or journalist who has otherwise transmitted such information decides. In order to avoid abuse, I think we should accept a amendment like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28720	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28721	Ladies and gentlemen, if you were to remain in Article 46 of this provision - that the person to whom the information is personally related can harm his or her right or interest may require the editor responsible to, without compensation, publish the answer in which he claims that the information is untrue, incomplete or incorrectly transmitted - it may happen that a person never acquires and does not exercise his or her right to denial; because whoever determines what it is appropriate to harm someone's right or interest, I guess that each one determines for himself, and the formulation itself - fit to harm the right or interest should be bound to the truth, for completeness, for accuracy. There are a lot of these formulas where we leave everything to someone to interpret what they wanted to say, so they can do it one way or another, and in a lawsuit for the release of a correction, they discuss the inaccuracy, inaccuracy or inaccuracy of the information and whether information is violated by the prosecution's right or interest. The case should only discuss whether something is true or not, whether it is complete or not, whether it is true or not. Whether it hurt someone or whether his interest is threatened in any way, he will further determine or prove it in another case and therefore seek damages, possibly defamation, or so. This is about the exercise of the right to answer, and this procedure cannot determine his interest and how hurt he is, but only whether something is complete, incomplete, true or false. Unfortunately, I can see that the Deputy Prime Minister almost doesn't listen to us at all, and the minister in the afternoon was looking forward to leaving, because there's absolutely no understanding in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28722	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28723	Dear MPs, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a public information law to delete in Article 47(3) the words "other persons whose memory of the deceased may be injured". With the same amendment, I suggested that the whole point 4 be deleted, which says, "If the legal person to whom the information has ceased to exist, then the right to reply, or the correction, are represented by the parties to the legal person. "Why? This is an article 47, which is an integral part of the subtitle - the right of other persons to answer, or correction, so-called denials where a person is predicted to have the right to answer on behalf of the deceased. It is said in the text (and I am sorry that in time I did not see that this amendment proposes to replace the name - a married friend; Mr. Vice-President of the Government, take this into account, because a spouse is the name of an ideological character, not a sociological character; it is what from time to time - comrades and friends, so you can possibly suggest yourself, in Serbian language this is also known, but the real word is - husband, husband, husband, wife, and so on) that other persons have the right to give denials, i.e. the right to respond, and there may be great abuses, because there is a broad range of those persons who can, from different initiatives, exercise the right to answer, or correct some information, untrue, incomplete, incomplete or incorrect. There may also be a chain trial, where it is impossible to determine the truthfulness of it, because the name itself, if it is as you suggested in the law, gives the right to do so. I think you should accept this amendment, because the member is truly absurd and should include the persons really interested in each specific case to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28724	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28725	Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the person to whom the information is personally concerned and who has the right to reply, the Proposer has provided in Article 47 that still faces can achieve this right and use an unacceptable term - a participant of a legal person, who is unknown in our legal system. That's why we think it needs to be fixed. As it stands in this position, a legal person (member, body, employee) has the right to a standalone response, i.e. correction, if the published information refers to both the legal person and the participant personally. I'd like to commend this legal norm, because it allows all members of the SRS to bury the editorials and demand the denials and corrections of everything you've been saying about us in your pagan languages lately on radio and television. As for attitude 2, we really thought that we should delete this category of fan club, another person whose memory of the deceased could hurt, although Mr. Korać with Vladet Jankovic, Mitevic was in the same party unit at the time of Josip Broz and right after him. You, as a follower of Joseph Broz, can seek, on the basis of this member of the law, because of these feletons that are being declared of Joseph Brto as a villain and as a man who has done great evil to the people of Serbia, and with what we agree, as his follower, to seek the denials. No one could argue with that. That would really be more groundless today. Today’s methods for such things are far more perfect than those of Joseph Broz. This is literally the sequel to his work. I think even he would have envied you on this provision. Think about how excessive this is, if his sons, grandkids, great-grandparents don't think they should deny something, so they don't need a fan club, followers or members of the same group, they're already covered by the position of the 2nd member.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28726	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28727	Ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly logical and normal for one who is damaged by the publication of false, incorrect or incomplete information in the means of public information to have the right to reply or correct that information. I have submitted an amendment to Article 52(4), which is currently talking about the possibility of a damaged person getting the right to answer or correct the published information. Namely, if the responsible editor of the public message does not accept the publication of an answer or correction, the damaged person shall have the right to submit the complaint to the district court and to obtain the right to respond or publish the correction of the incorrectly published information. Article 4 of the amendment reads: "If the editor in charge is changed after the complaint has been filed, and the prosecutor does not change the suit until the main hearing is concluded, the court rejects the suit." With my amendment, I suggested that this position be changed by adding the words "the editor" after the word "the defendant is obliged to inform the court and the prosecutor of the change and from that moment on it is considered to have been modified, and the court delivers a copy of the complaint to the new editor responsible". Namely, if this amendment were accepted, this position 4 would read: "If, after the complaint has been filed, the editor responsible is changed, the defendant is obliged to inform the court and the prosecutor of the change and from that moment on, the complaint is considered to have been modified and the court makes a copy of the complaint to the new editor responsible." I believe that the law should protect those who are damaged, not those who deliberately or by chance have done harm to the other person. If the position would remain as provided for by the law, then, in fact, the responsible editor, who published the incorrect, false or false information, would be obliged, by changing the editor responsible, to re-apply the complaint and to sue the new editor responsible again, etc. I think it should protect the damaged and that as soon as the editor in the public opinion is changed automatically, the editor here is obliged to inform both the court and the prosecutor of the change and that this lawsuit is automatically considered a change, means that the proceedings can be continued...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28728	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28729	So, there would be big problems in practice, very often this change in the editor responsible would be practiced to avoid some of the consequences arising from the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28730	Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28731	Article 52 regulates an action for the publication of an answer, i.e. the correction to which it is brought, what can the prosecutor seek, and what is the case with the complaint, that if, after the action has been brought, the editor responsible should change the case until the main hearing is concluded, because if it does not, the court will dismiss the complaint. This is a situation that can happen. It puts the prosecutor in an awkward situation, because he is not obliged to monitor the impression daily and to look at the bob if there has been a change in the editor-in-chief. So that fact can be completely unknown to him. To be honest, the lawsuit is more directed towards the previous editor and makes no sense, because he can't, even if he decides that the prosecutor has the right to respond, he can no longer influence it and can't be obliged to publish the answer. It is much more logical that the defendant is the one who is obliged to inform the court and the prosecutor of that change and that from that moment on the case is considered to have been changed and that the court then delivers the copy of that complaint to the new editor responsible, so that he knows that his predecessor was responsible for something. If it remained as you predicted, then the prosecutor would have unnecessary additional costs. A member should go towards making the situation much simpler and protecting the prosecutor, not the defendants, since it is assumed that rarely when there are baseless lawsuits here and that it has to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28732	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 56th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 56 that speaks of a ban on recasting, commenting on answers, or corrections. Since the Constitutional Charter of the Community of Serbia-Montenegro, which guarantees national and minority rights and language rights, has been recently adopted, we have seen that Article 56 otherwise says that the answer, or correction, is published without changes, abandonment and supplementation, the necessary lecturing changes are allowed if it does not change the meaning, etc. In Article 56, there are enough elements that point to a ban on modifying and commenting answers. However, what is missing in the Constitutional Charter is the right to use the native language of citizens. Accordingly, we propose to add a new position in Article 56, which would read: "The answer is published in a language in which the person pointing to the answer is required." This would be consistent with the Constitutional Charter and the full answers to the correction could be used as understandable for those citizens who do not know the language, for example, Hungarian, Russian, Roma, etc. Some don't even know Serbian, unfortunately. For these reasons, I believe that this amendment should be accepted because it does not alter the essence of this article, but only improves, or supports the meaning of the Constitutional Charter adopted. Of course, the SRS parliamentary group has objections to Article 3 56's position, where it is not allowed to comment on the answer, i.e. the correction in the same number of texts, which is very often happening. Given the lack of time, I'd end up here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28734	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yes, a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28735	Ladies and gentlemen, both the Constitution and this charter of human and minority rights guarantee that every citizen, or every person, has the right to use his own language and his letter. In practice, there will be a variety of texts in the means of information being printed, for example, in the language of national minorities and if someone wants to respond and refer the denials to that text, he would have to make a translation of his reply and send it to that editorial. We believe that everyone should decide on their own in which language to write the answer and that the means of informing is to publish it in the original text and in the printed media, as is the right for everyone to contact the public in their native language in electronic media. Of course, the situation can be reversed, but we cannot dispute anyone’s right to use his own language and his letter. It would really be inappropriate for us to have to translate the deficits, because when we want to respond in our native language in a printed public note in the language of a national minority, it is understood that we want to direct this to the entire public, not just a part of the public that knows the language of the national minority. I'm really surprised why the Deputy Prime Minister sits in the O.R. when he absolutely doesn't listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28736	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28737	What is the meaning of this amendment? If someone writes a correction in "Politics", he can ask that "Politics" print him a reply in Hungarian, Romanian, Russian, Macedonian, Croatian and other languages that are recognised. So I understand the meaning of the amendment very well, I just don't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28738	No more applications for a word about this amendment? National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to Article 57, where the reasons for the refusal to respond are. It is the 57th member who has caused the most dispute as far as the proposed law itself is concerned, because it is precisely those provisions on the right to answer that are also problematic. The draft law interprets this provision as the right of citizens to edit newspapers, i.e. the law itself provides for 19 cases where the right to reply is limited. The right to answer is not a citizen of Serbia if it is a valuable court, so it is indeed an adequate question whether this law threatens editorial law. The amendment to the SRS has been proposed to delete "the court will not order the editor responsible to publish the answer", in particular because the court assesses in which case the editor responsible is not obliged to publish the answer. That's why you need to delete that part. As for points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6). and 7), the SRS agrees with the proposed solution. When it comes to point 8, the amendment is intended to be deleted, because it is unnecessary to say that the answer cannot be found in a newspaper or in another media to be defined if it refers to an opinion rather than to a claim of facts, as well as an answer that does not contain a claim of facts, but merely an opinion. That's exactly how the government should show it's a democratic government. As far as point 9 is concerned, our amendment has suggested that the word "information" be put on the line and that the rest be deleted. In any case, it is too high to stand - "and if the answer refers to information which, which is not true, incomplete or incorrectly transmitted, is not fit to harm the right or the interest of the person". Point 10), although the Deputy Prime Minister has just tried to explain it, it is necessary to delete it, because it is certainly defined that everyone has the right to choose the language they serve. If you are a democratic authority, you should enable every citizen to use speaking language and when giving an answer to a particular news agency. As regards point 14, it is necessary to delete it in any case, because the SRS did not agree that there could be an inability to respond because of the content, and its publication could cause a ban on publishing information, criminal or criminal liability, or civil liability to third parties. Point 16 requires that the words "obvious, generally known or" should be deleted because the point itself would then be much lighter and better defined, and it would be more precise to define the attitudes relating to that point. And finally, point 18, of these 19 as defined, should be deleted, because in any case, if the proposal remains unchanged, the duty of publication of the answer would not be clearly defined at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28740	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28741	It's interesting that in Article 57, ladies and gentlemen, we here prejudge what the court will do. What the court is about to do, he himself decides in the procedure, what decision he will make, based on the facts and evidence he comes up with, and cannot stand here that the editor responsible is not obliged to publish the answer, or the court will not order the editor responsible to publish the answer. The responsible editor shall not be obliged to publish the reply if the answer has been submitted by an unauthorized person, if it has already been published, if the proceedings are ongoing, and it is waiting to be seen what the court will say, whether or not it should, that is, as regards the position of the 1st member. Point 8 says "if the answer refers to an opinion rather than to a statement of facts, as well as if the answer contains no claim of facts, but an opinion. "You as a psychologist can certainly give us an explanation here of what an opinion is, what a claim is, what an idea, what an idea is, what is a thought, what is a broadest, what is a concept. You probably can, but I doubt those who need to interpret point 8 will be able to interpret what it refers to. Point 9 says, "If the answer does not dispute the truthfulness, phasing out or accuracy of the information, as well as if the answer refers to information that is false, incomplete or incorrectly transmitted, it is not fit to harm the right or the interest of the person." Please, how will the editor-in-chief conclude that he is not obliged to publish the answer, because the information is not fit to harm the right or the interest of the person. The truth is false, and it must be linked to Article 46, paragraphs 3 and 4, which says: "In the case of the publication of the answer only the facts of this law, which depend on the editor responsible to publish the answer," and the person whose right or interest is violated by false, incomplete or incorrectly transmitted information may request the court to decide on it. Here, we are now in language, at point 10), is not published unless "the answer is not drawn up in the language in which the information to which it is answered is published, or subsequently translated into that language. "We were absolutely right. It is up to me to choose which language I will answer, and I have the right to deny in my own language, as well as that of the Russian or Hungarian, and whoever publishes it is obliged to provide translation and print, if necessary in my native language, and in the language in which it was printed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28742	There's a word from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28743	No one deprives anyone of the right to address any organ in their native language. Nowhere in the world is there that whoever published the information in that language is obliged to answer in your language. That would mean, for example. that in a Serbian-language TV diary you have three minutes of answers in Romanian. That's not what anyone who sent the answer would want. Point 10 does not apply to this at all, but confirms what I said - is not an answer if it is not drawn up in the language in which the information is published. The answer is given in the language in which the information was found. Now, when I talk about point 8) (that's very important, that's what many journalists have asked, to be clear about what it is, so I answer more to the press and to the public, and of course to the honourable MPs) - cannot be answered to the court of law. Here it is said: the editor is not obliged to publish if the answer refers to an opinion rather than to a statement of facts. I'll illustrate it very simply; if someone is said to be a fascist, it's a qualified court, it's entitled to commentator in the paper; but if he says you're a member of a fascist party, let's say in Italy it's an Italian social movement, they're considered heir to Mussolini, so if you write it to an Italian man or politician, that he's a member of that party, he has the right to respond; it's factlessly - no, I'm not a member and I don't have a membership card. You can say anything about someone, that he's incompetent, that he's a bad politician, that he's a bad businessman, that he's not doing right, that he's working against his firm's interests, that there's an answer to that. But if you bring out the fact that last year he achieved a loss of 100 million dinars, he has the right to respond in the same place -- no, I haven't achieved a loss of 100 million dinars. Because it's not a court of law, it's a fact. This is just for the public, and I wanted to answer for the MPs. (Employer Gordana Pop-Lazic seeks word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28744	No, you're not offended, you're not absolutely, you're not mentioned, you're not offended. We're continuing the debate. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted the amendment to Article 58. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28745	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 58. Proposal for a law on public information. Article 58 is amended and reads as follows: "The editor responsible shall be obliged to make a request within three days of the date of receipt for the publication of the reply to the applicant's request for a reason for refusing to publish the reply". I believe that the editor responsible is the applicant, whose answer refuses to publish, is obliged to inform of the reason why he is doing this. The information is worth as much as it's useful and how much is the probability that it's true. In abundance, in fact, a real flood of various information, their quality selection is also necessary, but each selection contains a trap of reduction, dosing and trendy placement. One who has technically more efficient information collected can dominate it based on the superior position that good information builds up for him. At all conferences for the press of the Serbian Radical Party, its president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, tried to inform you of the connection and influence of the Surcin and Zemun mafia. Also, the discovery of many murders and their executioners, the publication of their names and connotation of executions, which were of a political, material or other nature, resulted in the giving of thanks to Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, and the minister himself confirmed that Prof. Vojislav Seselj had discovered more murders than his service.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28746	I warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28747	It is possible to abuse information by state authorities or individual political operators. The democratic essence of the state must constantly prove to the maximum public the work of all state authorities. If the government's work is public, as you say transparent, the degree of true information is high, but your work is covered by false, various political and economic manipulations, such as the Law on Privatisation, so the Law on Tobacco and Oil, etc. The only effective means of countering comprehensive manipulation is the possibility of choice and general competition among public media. I don't have access to local media during these extraordinary measures of yours, most likely the authorities are afraid of the truth in my hometown of Sapco.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28748	There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28749	My comment is about the previous amendment, and I deliberately provoked you as an expert, who understands what the thought is, what the idea is, what the opinion is, knowing in advance what kind of example you're going to take. So I ask you, if you tell anyone he's a fascist, is that the basis for persecution, is that an insult? For every normal man it's an insult and that's the reason for persecution. It's not a qualification, you think it's an opinion. If I say - criminal government, you're not going to say it's an opinion, but you're going to say - I'm talking about facts. That's why you brought this confusion, so when it suits you, it's an opinion, and when it suits you, it's a fact. When it comes to some journalistic comment, when you give any qualifications, and then you have the right to sue. I'm each appraised when I need to turn to the court and protect myself. That's why this point 8 would have to be deleted, because we're going to have to come up and the situation so that you can say whatever you want and whatever you want without anyone having the right to answer that question. Although it can't last long, they're not the means of information that can be answered to. There's also a road under the feet, the caves will lick themselves, but there's a people to talk about and explain themselves. And so far we've done it, the truth will come out to see who's what and who's what. You have a variety of other qualifications. Here we now had in the congregation debate that an MP was punished for one qualification. He made one point, I don't want to remind you, so he's grounded for it. That's how the president of the National Assembly interpreted it. Not about the fact, about something that was directly directed at one person, but given one qualification, an opinion. Now imagine how it's going to affect information.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28750	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The title above the member and article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. He has the word National MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the title above the members and the article of the 59th is related to the amendment submitted to Article 57. This amendment speaks of the seriousness of the government's approach to law-making, since practically two almost identical titles are named differently. The title above article 57 reads: "The reasons for not publishing the answer", and the title above article 59 - "The reasons for the court not to order the publication of the correction. "It was quite enough and we suggest that the title above the article 59 be - Reasons for not publishing the correction, and that Article 59 is recast so that it reads: "The editor responsible will not publish the correction if there is any reason not to publish those mentioned in Article 57 paragraph 1), 2), 4), 6)-18 of this law. The law must regulate the relationship between the editor and the person to whom some information, qualifications, is presented in the media, and the court is doing its job. One part is regulated by article 52 and some of the other members of this law. The court can certainly order the publication of the correction, but we believe that in this part of the law it must not and should not stand for the court to order the publication of the correction. We also cited points 1, 2, 4), 6) to 18) of the law here, but if our amendment to Article 57 is taken into account, where we are looking for the erasure of certain points, if you adopt it, unfortunately I am convinced that the Government will not adopt these amendments, the points would remain. Perhaps it is the most controversial point of point 8 that has been mentioned, where you leave great space for the editors of the media, even the court to assess what that opinion is, and what it is about facts and whether the one to whom some information relates has the right to deny and even whether it has the right to order the judicial officer responsible to publish the correction or to publish the answer. Because terms - opinions and claims about facts can be interpreted in duplicate. Is what my colleagues mentioned before me, when you're qualified to tell him that the fascist is an insult, can he get a satisfaction for that qualification you've brought here? You will be undermining it and not sanctioning it, or ordering the media to publish the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28752	Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, there isn't. ) National MP Dragan Slavka Pavlovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 59 be added after article 59. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Dragan Slavka Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on public information. After Article 59, the title - Notification of the reason for not publishing the correction is added. Article 59a reads: "The editor responsible shall be obliged to make a request within three days of the date of receipt for the publication of the correction of the notification to the applicant for the reason for which he refuses to publish the correction. "I suggested adding the said new member after article 59. I think it's necessary, and reading the proposed text of the law made me feel that the promoter simply forgot this. I have no other interpretation, given that in article 58 of the law you provided notice of the reason for the non-response. I did not understand why the legislator was making discrimination between the non-disclosure of the answer and the non-declaration of the correction. I expect that this will explain to us a proposalary representative. Who, and why, ignores the correct answer? I guess the person asking for an update has the right to receive a notice from the principal editor for which no correction will be made. It is necessary to get this notice within three days, so that the person requesting the publication of the ruling may request judicial protection. Although in the circumstances of DOS dictatorship, it is obvious that the adoption of this law will continue to be a state of emergency in the field of information, these provisions become meaningless. Because a journalist who will dare to write something negative about a representative of the government in the future, when he can expect his texts to be analysed after a few years, as is now the case with journalistic texts, which are analysed by a government commission, to determine who he is and whether he has written something negative in the past few years about the former prime minister or the people in the current ruling nomenclature. So journalists, who once wrote this using freedom of information, will make some concentration circle of journalists serving organised crime, says Minister Mihajlovic. I don't expect free information after this kind of stunt on the press, but I still suggest you adopt this amendment, because believe it makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28754	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28755	Article 59 refers to the reasons why the court does not order the publication of the correction, and we have given the amendment because you cannot determine and tell the judge what it will do. He will decide that after the procedure has been carried out. We have asked that Article 59a be added behind this article, which would oblige the editor responsible to make a request within three days of the date of receipt for the publication of an amendment to the applicant's request for a reason for refusing to publish the correction. You have to admit that the information itself has a certain weight. Also, the dementia has its weight. To anyone who wants to deny something, to deprive, to respond, or to make a correction public, it is very important to get an answer from an editor, whether this one will do it or not. If he won't, he knows that he has to exercise his right through court. This is a waste of time. She's divorcing information, she's already gone, she's re-emitting, and as long as all these deadlines that are under the law are laid down to achieve justice by court to answer, "eat a donkey wolf" and over. It doesn't make any sense anymore. After a month when you announce some denials to me, it's already not the same as when you did it within three days, let's say. That's very important. The promoter has failed to take this situation into account and could be seriously considering adopting this amendment. He doesn't go to anyone's harm, he just edits the rights and obligations and editors, and he's looking for some sort of correction. We talk all the time about the urgency of this procedure when it comes to court proceedings, why don't we set deadlines and then when two people want to make a peaceful agreement on whether or not it's his right to decide whether he wants to make an announcement, whether he wants to make a correction or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28756	Is anyone else answering for a word? We move to Article 61, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Sramenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28757	Often in some of the government's legal proposals, writing some members of the law, with few words trying to bring norm into legal life. We often make amendments, wanting this to be explained, in order to make the law more simple in practice. Therefore, it happens that members of the law contain some unnecessary provisions or provisions already contained in other regulations or laws. In the case of Article 61(4), it is said: "In the appeal to the prosecutor, it is indicated that in the case of his absence from the first or any subsequent hearing, he will be considered to have withdrawn the complaint, and in the appeal's call, that the verdict can be made in the event of his absence from the first hearing, and that in the event of his absence from the subsequent hearing, the verdict is made on the basis of the facts until then". This has already been contained in some other regulations and laws. It is unnecessary to burden the text of the law, because this is a law on public information. As for the teachings of the ignorant party, it is known how it is done. It's not the subject nor the content of this law. In my amendment, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I ask that Article 61 of Article 4 be deleted, as this procedure is regulated by the Law on the Parley Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28758	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to Article 62, on which the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 62 that regulates the details of the main debate in the procedure for the publication of the correction. In view of the fact that this procedure is conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure, we have suggested that Article 62, paragraph 5 be deleted, because it is excessive. In this direction, it is not necessary to include and burden this legal text here at all, that the Law on Prosecution will be applied, that the appeal should be called upon the prosecutor to indicate that in the event of his absence from the first or any subsequent hearing, he will be deemed to have withdrawn, and in a call to the defendant that the ruling may be brought in the event of his absence from the first hearing, and that, in the event of his absence from the subsequent hearing, judgments shall be made on the basis of the facts until then. There is no standstill in the proceedings for the publication of the correction. It can stay. However, it would be too high to keep the proceedings still. But in Article 5, this text was burdened needlessly by this member, so I suggest that it be deleted, since this law is applied in accordance with the rules of the Law on litigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28760	Do any of the other participants want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president -- a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28761	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't believe the promoter meant anything by building this into legal norm. It could have been far simpler to do that if someone wanted to deal with it. For all of this from article 60, as far as court proceedings are concerned, and this is a district court and a litigation procedure is being applied, it could be said "the Law on Prosecution will apply" and eventually deadlines to be shortened. All of this could unite into one member and have no problems. It could, just that someone wanted to think and do it right. This is how the whole law comes to us as a law of litigation. There are 26 members of this law involved in some procedure. All of this could have been much simpler, except for these basic principles that we have in the law and concern public information, and everything is contained in the Constitution and the Charter. I don't see what we've regulated with this law. As far as the rights and obligations of the press are concerned, we haven't regulated anything again, we've left everything stuck, clouded, how this fits, how it fits. In practice, we'll have, believe me, chaos, as we've had it so far, and we'll have the fear of journalists and the means of public information, whether they may or may not say anything, whether they should invite or not, whether they should ask him or not, whether they should ask him or not, if they're just gonna call someone on the committee to ask: well, can I call on this subject today and to talk about it and whether I'm going to be having some conferences. You will see in a very short time that we were right and that the law is not as you promised to regulate this area. Journalists' houses, public journals won't be pleased with this. He'll be in constant fear of sanctions, which you started to apply without law, and only when you have the law and when we get to these criminal provisions will we tell you what we think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28762	Does anyone else want a word? We move on to Article 76, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment that Article 76 of point 1 changes and reads "1) that publication requires an unauthorized person or it cannot be determined that the person is authorised," also points 3 and 9 are deleted. Under this law, this article, to which I have submitted the amendment, there are reasons for not publishing certain information. The main reason not to announce something is that someone doesn't belong to DOS, or a ruling coalition that doesn't know what it's called today. The current reason for not publishing is a man who invites editors and personally dictates what he can and cannot publish. That was before the state of emergency. That man's name is Vladimir Popovic, called Baby. Under his patronage are all the information, or all the editors. Now, when a system of habits is established, it will be able to be used even after the adoption of this law, so that Article 76 of this law can be interpreted in this way. The court shall assess in which case the editor responsible shall not be obliged to publish the answer. If the proposal remains unchanged, the duty of publication of the reply would not be clearly established. Everyone has the right to choose the language to be used. The reasons for not publishing are not only these nine points, there can be more or less. The law on public information is bad and as such will not function for long. That's what people in the profession comment on. He's already on the first, called democratic promotions, had a debacle. Not happy with him are people fighting for human rights. We Serbian radicals have tried this number of amendments to guide you in a certain direction, but it doesn't matter to you. What does it matter to you? The people are unable to make their own judgment on this law. It is important for you to pass another law through this law factory of yours, report to you famous counters, and bring us great debts that will have disastrous consequences for future generations. You will then be who knows where, and of these pairs you have already created or you will create empires, like today's information houses that work for you and represent you, such as Pink Television and similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28764	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28765	This is a good member who can best show the senselessness of a complete legal project. This article bears the title - Disfellowshipping responsibility; it is meant to exclude responsibility for the damage caused and some reasons that exclude responsibility are given. However, it is fortunate that your law cannot devalue the Criminal Law and the Law on Liabilities which, although not contained much of the provisions, are the basis for the protection of individual rights, so from Articles 92 to 101. There are provisions on insults, slanders and other modalities and ways of committing a crime that offends the honor and reputation of an individual, and this law cannot rule that out. Also, in Articles 198, 199 and 200. The Law on Obligation Relations, written thank God for the the thesis of Professor Constantinović, and no one had to touch him yet, and it is good that he was not allowed to, is given the possibility and compensation of damage, both material and immaterial, in the event of a violation of honor, respect, but also has a supplement in article 200 that says - for violations of freedom and the rights of a man and a citizen. What you cited as a reason that rules out liability for damages doesn't mean anything at all. I recommend to all MPs that, if they are struck by a medium, they do not use this law that has been passed today, but above all, the Criminal Law and the Law on Bond Relations. Because in this law, there is a galaxy of answers and corrections, absolutely irrelevant things, a complicated procedure, legally - technically ill written, and it can be interpreted as anybody's will, but in all possible ways here, it excludes the possibility of protecting the injured rights of a person. Therefore, we return to our traditional laws, because it is obvious that this is meant for the audience to be dazzled and pressured against journalists, to destroy their inner freedom of the press and allow the politburos and other committees to exert political influence and to allow for limitless manipulation of the media, which is the opposite of that first member listed in the proposal for this law. That's why I call on everyone not to vote in favour of this bill, because this is a bad legal project.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28766	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28767	Dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 86 paragraph 5 which I must read: "In the appeal's call, it is indicated that in the event of his absence from the first or any later hearing, the prosecution will be deemed to have withdrawn, and in the appeal's call, that the verdict may be made in the event of his absence... "This is one of the basics of the Law on Prosecution and, in fact, on the back of each call stands exactly that text which warns both the prosecutor and the defendant of his rights. I believe that the introduction of this text is excessive and that there is no need to figure in this bill. There is no need, therefore, to introduce what has already been defined by the Law on a litigation procedure into the public information law. This provision not only is excessive and confusing, it may confuse the judge in making these judgments for damages in the case of this public information law. Otherwise, the aim of this introduction is to create a psychoses of fear and darkness that is currently ruling in information and in the media in Serbia at all. Only one side can be heard, and that regime is currently in power, and everything else is inaccessible and cannot be expressed. That's how citizens are denied this information. We could sue under this law. This debate can't wait, only the street and the people can, because I hope the time will come soon when people and the street will take you down and you can't stand these bills in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28768	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. National MP Ivan Andric, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, withdrew the amendment. Members of the 90th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Grubački and Novi Đuraskovic. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legal, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment, so the amendment to the 90th People's MPs Branislav Gubraski and Novice Djuraskovic became an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 91st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, chapter 10 of the proposed law provides for criminal provisions for commercial offences and violations for the founders of public texts. The Soviet Parliament Group has tabled an amendment to Article 91. Let me first read to you the proposed article: "A fine of 100,000 to 1,000,000 will be punishable for a commercial offence by a legal person dealing with the distribution of public messages which refuses to distribute someone's public message without a reasonable reason, i.e. to distribute the conditions contrary to market principles (Article 15). "We have suggested that the threatened minimum of this fine be reduced to 50,000, with a maximum of 500,000 dinars. Considering that the threatened minimum and maximum fines for the offence are not suitable for the degree of social danger committed and the degree of severity committed, as well as the economic and social situation, we propose that the fines for all subsequent violations provided for in this law be reduced. We exempt members 93 and 94 from this when the editor responsible also publishes his comment. By respecting the threshold of endurance for all of you, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go out and explain the other amendments to these criminal provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28770	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal to add a new member. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 91 be added after article 91. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28771	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Korać, we are going back to the story from the beginning, to Article 2 of the Information Act and what I was saying yesterday, and as regards all those who, by abuse of the authority of the function they have, do and restrict freedom of information, and above all, influence the editors of both the information shows and everything that concerns every segment of our social life. Therefore, it is necessary to add a new member of 91s under the subheading "Brokens", which will read as follows: "The fine between 100,000 and 1,000,000 dinars will be punished for the violation of a person who restricts the freedom to inform about the abuse of the right, influence and control of the means of public information (Article 2)". We are witnessing that these abuses are daily. As many of us today, and especially in times of emergency, editors of many media in Serbia have said that they can't invite representatives of the SRS on their shows, because from local committees or from the DOS headquarters, an order came to them not to do such a thing at any cost. And if that were the case a few days ago, when the director dared, as well as the editor-in-chief of one television, and it was TV Tristenik, which is financed by the municipal budget. In her show, she called on SRS Vice President Tomislav Nikolic to be in the area, so the Rasin County, and otherwise television has little more reach for one local television, so that the citizens of Kraljev, Vrnjaka Banja, etc. could also follow, explain and explain to the citizens all these senseless and faceless attacks on Prof. Vojislav Seselj and SRS. TV Tristenik was told in the first place that they are being punished by 50,000 dinars, and then the editor-in-chief with 30,000 dinars for re-emitting the show that was hosted by Mr Nikolic. That's not true at all, Mr. Korach. You, since you're here only declaring freedom of public information, you have to come out when that fellow of yours who doesn't understand himself well in acting, let alone in the information, didn't even know how to run today, the letter 'a' to say about public information, so you can say nicely, why television is being punished and why something like that is being given to television... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... And it stands in disposition, here I end up, when Mr. Nikolic on that show never mentioned the state of emergency, nor the measures that apply, but he said what radicals say, pop-pop, bobu-bob, and that's who the criminals who were connected to the bearers of the highest state functions in this country are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28772	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28773	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been trying to figure out what act the media are now being punished from since the adoption of the Emergency Order. I just can't figure it out. It would be good for the Deputy Prime Minister to tell us if the minister can't already know. In this particular case that my colleague Natasa Jovanovic was now talking about, it seems to me that if there has been any comment on the introduction of the emergency situation, and the Order forbids it, then more violations of the public order are at stake. It could be some kind of violation. I don't know what kind of solution was made and what was forbidden, except for re-emission, but it didn't happen. It was supposed to be punished, so now it doesn't matter, it can write in disposition of anything. But what is important about this is that it is necessary to punish those who, by abuse of state or private authority, do not only think about functions, we also think about those who have an impact on some people who have economic power or who have acquaintances, abuses some of their rights or personal influences that they have from other times, means unrelated to the function they perform - they put pressure on the means of information, whether they are concerned, or affecting the distribution of these texts in order to limit the free flow of ideas, information and opinions. You can't say, it's forbidden, and then you don't punish it anywhere else. There are no infringing orders, and it's just a violation and a violation of personal rights, it can't be a violation. It can only be an act of breach of the public order. This is already a public order, and this should be found in violation provisions, and not, as you say here, in the position of Article 5(2), "The violations of freedom of public information are decided by the court, by an urgent procedure". Prove to the court that yesterday someone pressured the RTS editor not to show it in the second journal and who was speaking in this assembly about the public information law, that this one can't quite appear. That's where I think of one of us making statements about this law. There's no court that can determine that, and there's no one who can prove it. It all affects the free flow of ideas, which is a public interest to preserve the public order. That's why he should be here as a misdemeanor, because we know what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28774	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic submitted the 92th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 95th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment, MP Goran Cvetanović, the Committee on Culture and Information, and a representative of the Proposer, did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 95. The SRS parliamentary group agrees with certain parts of this member, especially when it comes to fines from 3,000 to 20,000 dinars for a violation of Article 1, which will be fined both by the distributor and his responsible person. Item 1 reads: "The fine of 30,000 to 200,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of a legal person - a public note distributor who publicly exposes to minors over 14 years of age the printed matter with pornographic content, i.e. the printed thing on the front page or the last page containing pornography and which has no visible warning that it contains pornography, as well as a warning that it is not intended for minors (Article 41)". The SRS has suggested that the position remain, but that the words "older than 14 years" be deleted. Simply, the legislator himself should have known that Article 41 did not establish the age of minors. That is why I am obliged to warn the Vice-President of the Republic Government about the content of Article 41, where it is literally said: "In a way available to minors, there must be no public exposure to the printed matter with pornographic content. The pornographic printed thing on the front and back shall not contain pornography, and must have a visible warning that it contains pornography, as well as a warning that it is not intended for minors. Pornographic content on television and radio programmes is subject to the provisions of a special law governing the field of broadcasting. "We adopted the Law on Broadcasting a year ago, so it is well known that this area is well organized in this respect. Therefore, the SRS insists that the amendment be adopted and that the words "older than 14 years" be deleted, so that the age limit of minors is correctly established.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28776	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28777	In the light of the amendments that I have proposed to delete Article 97, I have stated that the amendment is the consequence of the amendments my colleague Goran Cvetanovic has submitted to Article 13. A bill of this law. It is really unclear why the Government's representative did not accept this amendment. I don't expect the Assembly to do it, regardless of the fact that everyone is guaranteed the freedom of the press, and I don't want to believe that the promoter thought that everyone was guaranteed to read the press. Gordana Pop-Lazic even quoted article 46rd item 3 here. The constitution, which speaks of guaranteed freedom of the press. I don't see why that amendment wasn't accepted. Since the Government's representatives did not accept the amendment, I said, I do not expect the Assembly to accept it either, but in that case I would like to ask Mr Koraq a question about Article 97 for the range of fines from 100,000 to 1,000 dinars. I think that range is too big. I'd like you, Mr. Korać, to respond to what criteria it will be to define a fine of 100,000 dinars, of 1,000 dinars or some in between.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28778	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Ivan Andric and Vera Markovic submitted, in the same text, an amendment suggesting that a new article 98a be added after article 98a. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proponents accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proponents adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Vladimir Andric and Vukosav Tomasevic. Amendment applicants, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, withdrew this amendment. The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rada Bajic and Nebojsa Jovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28779	Dear People's MPs, counterpart Rade Bajic and I, on behalf of the SPS, submitted an amendment to Article 99. Proposal for a public information law. It refers to transitional and final provisions and speaks of the fact that public votes, the founders of which are state and territorial autonomy, or institutions, or undertakings that are in the predominantly state-owned area, or the public ballot which are financed in general or in part by a heavy part by means of public revenue and which are not subject to the provisions of the law governing the broadcasting area, cease to work within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law. We propose an amendment to stop working within 36 months of the date of entry into force of this law. Objectively, public votes whose founders are state and territorial autonomy, or institution, or undertaking, which are financed in whole or in part by public income, cannot be transformed and adapted to market conditions over a period of 12 months. With the proposed solution, a large number of journalists, whose proposed public information law provides extremely little protection, unlike those on which it is written, will face an extremely difficult situation. That is why we are proposing a solution to stop public hearings and institutions, i.e. enterprises, within 36 months from the date of entry into force of this law. Also, the reason for proposing this amendment is to achieve some compliance with Article 96. The proposal for a law on broadcasting, which stipulates that radio and TV stations of local communities have an obligation to privatise within four years of the date of entry into force of the law, which entered into force on July 27th 2002. I believe that the above-mentioned explanation is sufficient reason to accept the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28780	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28781	This amendment proposes one legal - technical and logical harmonisation of transitional and final provisions in that part relating to local media, i.e. media, which are the founders of local self-government units. The proposal is to add a new position, which precisely determines that a public vote ends within a year. Because, by one interpretation, the existing attitude 2 applies, when it comes to local media, primarily to printed media, newspapers, and this attitude 3, which we suggest to be submitted, would practically refer to something that is already a matter regulated by the Law on Broadcasting. It's probably in combination with these many amendments that have passed, since some amendments have already been adopted, but if they're going for three years, then four years, I think it's bad. It's bad for the simple reason that it's obvious that this single-use bill to replace the extended state of emergency in the field of information, to preserve the monopoly on the media. Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear that despite your legal standards that within four years these media, whose founder is a local self-government, we have been working to form these media, and most likely create some starting positions for future privatisation, although the whole broadcasting law is in a difficult delay. What I would like to point out to the Proposer - you almost don't have one norm in this bill which obliges and requires a vote to issue a state statement, which is simply unacceptable. That's because you think it's enough political influence, that it doesn't have to be translated into some norm. Furthermore, you did not ask the whole set of questions related to the answer and correction as a mistake, something that had failed in the public record, and we faced this cowboy market with intent, with the conscience of editors and journalists to publish false information, that the only man had a brother, that he had slaughtered a woman or famous Peter Lukovic, "the knife, the wire, the Srebrenica", and you did not sanction it by this law and you cannot sanction it. That's why I said -- thank God, there's Criminal Law and the Law on Bond Relations, which provide full protection, unlike this common fog that's scattered, that we're having fun with answers, corrections, which essentially mean nothing, and they don't commit to anyone. A special section had to be processed, which is the standard in journalism.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28782	Three minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proponents accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28783	Dear People's MPs, I thank you for your correct participation in the debate on this, as is said, important system law, which regulates one of the fundamental human rights, which is the right to free information. As you know, every country has its own history of information, with its ups and downs. I have to say that in the most democratic societies, a lot of questions are, unfortunately, still open, but of course, it doesn't mean that there isn't a huge degree of freedom open in this area; that doesn't mean that there aren't any court disputes there either, and there's no huge number of issues that everyday practice opens, for example. The development of new media, electronic media, Internet etc. So this is an extremely dynamic area that is constantly changing. With this bill of law, we wanted this area to finally be regulated. I mentioned how this law was drawn up. There were some doubts here. I have to say that they are not justified, that the public had full insight into the making of this law, that many versions of this law were, many public debates, that this law has been available for a long time, not just on the government site, anyone can see it. A little more than a month and a half of a public debate has already been organised, in which again representatives of all major media have had the opportunity to declare the text. I would just say that every member of parliament, every MP, has the right to see the bill, but I think it is a truly irrefutable fact that by adopting this law, we would finally get a legal, legal framework that guarantees freedom of information. Here, several times, an incorrect claim has been drawn, which is that this law intimidates journalists and that it actually serves as a means for journalists to have some kind of self-censorship. It's quite the opposite of the intention of this law. On the contrary, for the first time, the law provides journalists with some standards of protection that exist today in Europe. So for the first time, it introduces an institution of a protected source, means that a journalist doesn't have to find out by law in any form or even in any police investigation or in a court procedure, his own source. On the other hand, this law also protects citizens, public life participants, by very precisely regulating the right to respond, and I have already mentioned, not to qualitative, not to valuable, but to factual courts, and by very precise terms, under which conditions it does not have to be done. I'd say we took the first, very important step. There's always a chance that the law can be done, that in court and real practice, you can see what works and what doesn't work. It's my deep personal belief -- I can say it openly, I've worked very hard at making this law, but I haven't written it myself -- that this law is a big step forward for our society and that, beyond any doubt, it regulates this area in a way that we don't have to be ashamed of ourselves in front of Europe. Of course, it depends on all of us, on judicial and news, media practices, which will be the degree and extent of media freedom to achieve. The law can't do everything, the law gives the basics, the legal framework, and from ourselves, it depends largely on what it all looks like. Once again, I thank all the MPs who have spoken, who have read this law and made an effort to improve it, have made amendments. I hope and wish that in this form, as you have seen, the Government adopted a number of amendments, the MPs adopted when the time of the vote comes, in order for Serbia to finally come to some order and legal framework that is really necessary. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28784	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You've received a motion to consider an emergency procedure. Deputy president of the parliamentary group Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Serbia's Reform, MP Sinisa Mitrovic, on the basis of Article 158(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he proposed to put on the agenda of this session, following an urgent procedure, a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 April 2003. According to Article 158(4), I would like to put the draft deputy president of the parliamentary group Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Serbia's Reform, MP Sinisa Mitrovica, on the agenda of this session, to propose a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. For 115, against eight, did not vote 65, out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal from the deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform to put on the agenda an amendment to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DEFINITIONS ON THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I am opening a single debate on the proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The material on the proposal for the selection of members of the Kosovo and Metohija committee and for the economy and privatisation is shared. I would like MPs' groups to submit a list of MPs to discuss this agenda item. Do the representatives of the proposings or the president of the parliamentary groups want a word? There is a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28785	I just want to say that within our quota we will make a replacement so that instead of Dragan Lazic, the Committee member will be Vuko Antonijevic. Please keep that in mind before the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28786	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Does a representative of the fartter want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a single search, adopting an amendment and addition proposal, presented by the president of the DSS parliamentary gurpa, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will declare in the day of voting the motion for a decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF PLANING AND CONSTRUCTIONS You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted on the bill by the MPs: Nada Kolundžija, Velimir Simonović, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Bratoljub Janacković, Milan Marković, Milan Milosavljevic; together Nenad Bogdanović and Milan Marković, together Bratoljub Janacković and Milorad Stanulov, together Bojan Pajtic and Gordana Comić and together Bratoljub Janacković, Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić, as well as the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. National MPs Bratoljub Janackovic and Milorad Stanulov have withdrawn the amendment in writing, proposing that Articles 12, 13 and 14. be deleted. It's a bill of law. At the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: - Bratoljub Janačković and Milorad Stanulov in art. 6, 11. with correction, 20, 54 and 56; - Velimir Simonović in art. 16, 32, 34 and 42; - Milan Milosavljevic in Art. 61, 62, 91 and 114; - Milan Marković on behalf of the applicant (Nenad Bogdanović) in Art. 77, 78 and 86; - Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović on Article 84. On the basis of Article 142(4) of the Legislative Committee, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure reject amendments to Art. 19, 103, 108 and 118, which were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed at a session of the National Assembly. I note that the committees responsible, as well as the representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, accepted a number of amendments at the meetings of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee, so that an integral part of the bill became the following amendments: - MPs Bojan Pajtic and Gordana Komic, per article. 6, 13, 19, 20, 24, 34, 48, 84, 89, 94, 110, 131 and 146; 29, 45, 89, 90, 113, 123, 130, 132, 145 and 167, as well as an amendment proposing the addition of the title of Chapter VII; 42, 77 and 86; - of the People's MP Milan Milosavljevic to member 46 with correction; - of the MPs of Bratoljub Janačković and Milorad Stanulov. 61st and 155; - National MPs Bratoljub Janačković, Milorad Stanulov and Ljubo Drago Grbić, respectively. 102, 103, 105, 120 and 142; - National MP Bratoljub Janačković, Art. 129th and 133th; - National MP Milan Markovic, Art. 141, 145 with a correction, 155th and an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 155a. You have received reports from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, so I ask the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to hand over the list of MPs with the order of application for the word. Does the proposalor's representative, Minister of Urbanism and Building Dr Dragoslav Šumarac want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28787	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on planning and construction. It combines four existing laws: the Law on building buildings, the Law on planning and planning of space and settlements, the Law on Building Land and we propose that the so-called "Deceased Land" be abolished. Law on legalisation (Law on special conditions for the issue of a building permit, ie used for certain facilities), which did not produce any results, or only three percent of illegal buildings are legalized. What are the objectives of passing this law? The objectives of passing this law are, above all, simplifying the process of obtaining building permits. By doing so, I'm sure we'll attract foreign investors. The second reason why this law was passed is that we want to eliminate the excessive presence of the administration in this area; the procedure itself was very complicated and long. You all know that 20 to 30 different papers and consent were required for the simplest facilities and that the procedure itself lasted for several months, and often it took a year and a year. Because of the very complicated procedure and because of all these consents, the application of solutions to the applicable laws was subject to corruption. As you know, this is one of the areas where corruption flourished. In the next few minutes, I'd like to say something about the newspapers we've introduced in certain areas. I already said he's changing four laws. In the area of spatial planning, we are now introducing a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia. So far there's been a spatial plan. As you know, the Space Plan, when it was brought in, regardless of what was in that know, it was a big newspaper and progress, proved very quickly, was a list of beautiful desires that could not be realized. The first thing he viewed as an isolated island, unrelated to the second one, primarily the surrounding and European countries, and on the other hand, according to this spatial plan, we should have already had high-speed railways from 250 to 300km per hour, and we know that the fastest train today from Belgrade to Nis goes more than four and a half hours, while in 1939 it went less than four hours. Besides, we've introduced the Space Planning Agency. In this interminist body will become the Office for Spatial Planning, now exists within our ministry. The agency will work together with the ministries on a strategy for spatial development, and the strategy will be adopted by the Assembly, with each ministry being tasked with working on an individual scheme based on the Strategic Development Strategy. So we'll have a pattern, say, for traffic and telecommunications, for higher education institutions, tourism, etc. One of the big newspapers in the area of spatial planning is that by law we introduce a spatial plan of the municipality. The spatial plan of the municipality has never existed before. So the municipalities will be able to decide their own development. It will be the legal obligation of all municipalities. It's one of the biggest contributions to decentralisation in this area. As far as urbanism itself is concerned, you know that urban plans have so far been cruel. If in some part of town it was planned to do a five-story, if someone wanted to build a one-story house, he could never get a permit. So there's one reason why there's so much illegal construction in our Republic. We've now introduced building rules and regulation rules along with graphics. They will represent urban plans. The regulation rules must contain all the conditions of public enterprises. And it's a big newspaper in this area. As I said earlier, according to the current procedure, according to the current law, when the main project is being developed, then it is only beginning to walk in pain, i.e. the investor must go from one public company to another and obtain consent. Let's say, from the plumbing, the PTT, the Elektro-distributions and all the consent that is needed, and that's 30 papers. There was often only one official working in the company on these consents, so when he was away, no one could change him, and it was often said that they would deliberately put the project in the drawer. So the procedure allowed this business to be subject to corruption. We have now introduced, and you asked us to do so when we imposed criminal penalties on unwitting investors, contractors and directors of public enterprises in 2001, and these penalties have indeed produced results, on your proposal for punishment for management. Therefore, all representatives of public enterprises, if within a certain deadline, which is 30 days, do not give adequate consent, they are given in the course of the development of the urban plan, will be subject to appropriate sanctions. This speeded up the process of issuing the necessary papers. Within 18 months of the entry into force of this law, the municipalities are obliged to make new plans. The law stipulates that for municipalities that don't do urban plans, the Republic will do it on the cost of municipalities. The procedure under the new proposal is as follows: if you apply for the issue of the necessary papers, then you will get a copy of the urban plan for the particular location you are looking for; in this copy there must be, as we have said, all the conditions; then it is an idea project and on the basis of an idea project it is from the competent authority, whether it is the municipality, the city or the Republic, that is to be approved for construction. We threw out that concept of a building permit, which was a synonym of long procedures, corruption and a bureaucratized system. So now it's called building approval. It changes urban and technical conditions, urban permit and building permit. It is only necessary to go to the administration twice, i.e. the administration to obtain approval for construction. After that goes the construction process, which we have again released from all possible administrations, not only in the area of construction, but also in the area of planning, by introducing personal licenses. I'll talk about it a little bit later when it comes to chambers. What is the need to request approval for construction? It is necessary to request approval for construction only in two cases: when new buildings are being built and when the existing facilities are being reconstructed. It means building up or expanding objects. If the objects remain in the same gauge, then only the main project is submitted. Therefore, the approval for construction is not necessary. And that's also going to speed up the procedure a lot. We've reduced the number of buildings the ministry is responsible for. You know that we had projects to open a window, say in Prince Michael or in a protected zone in Zemun; now we have cast it out. Only other national parks, Fruska Gora or Kopalnik, are left because we still think they do not have municipalities, say Raška or Bruss enough capacity to take care of such important areas as national parks. Other, too, are some chemical facilities and objects of importance for the Republic, such as highways, highways, or large bridges, dams and the like. So, and this procedure is completely simplified. And what's important is, in order to avoid the influence of the administration, in order for our officials not to see how the project was done, we had to introduce our personal licenses. These personal licences exist in Europe per 100 years. We've connected with the Austrian Chamber of Architects and Engineers, and by the reputation of that chamber we've been doing the statutes of our chamber, which will adopt the chamber once it's established, so now there's a possibility of losing the license. So far, that possibility has never existed. We issued licenses for certain companies. I think I also spoke on this phone about an example from the Colubary County, where we invested a lot of funding and that there was one of the new houses, which were small, with one floor and a basement, collapsed on its own. When we wanted to withdraw the license from the company that worked, there was no possibility under the existing law. So here is the possibility of losing a license in the existing four sectors. These are: spatial planning sector within the chamber, then urbanists, designers and contractors. Projectors and contractors will be the most numerous and they will be divided into subsections. For example, the designers will probably have a subsection of architects and builders, and the builders on their own will be divided into constructors, low construction and hydraulics. In addition, there will be a subsection of machinery, electricians and all those involved in the process of construction and design. Building objects will be similar to designing. Something to say about penalties; I already mentioned, in addition to these penalties that we imposed in 2001, when you supported that proposal to introduce criminal penalties for lawless builders, you remember that it was a year for contractors, and three years for investors and business directors, public enterprises that connected an illegal facility to a plumbing, sewerage, electrical network. Now we've imposed fines for management. If the building approval is not issued within 15 days, so for two weeks, a sentence of 30 days in prison and plus a fine shall follow. The same goes for all, for public companies directors if they do not give consent within a certain time limit, so we have even covered the penalties with inspectors, who will now have greater powers, but they themselves will bear adequate sanctions if they do not do their job in a safe way. By this law, I told you at the beginning, we solve the legal issue. You know that the existing law allowed the legalization of objects that were built by 1995 and there was a dilemma to which the facility was built, and according to this proposal all objects can potentially be legalized. Normally, those who are on important corridors, streets, parks, roads will not be legalised, but all will be able to legalise themselves and owners of these facilities are obliged to report these facilities to municipalities within six months and municipalities again within two months to give an answer whether or not the facility can be legalised. Again, if you don't get an answer, there's a proper punishment. So we think we're going to cover this segment with this solution. Here, I wouldn't be longer, in the end just to tell you that now more first of all, the process of issuing the necessary papers will be an adventure with an uncertain outcome, that the construction process will be as normal as it is in all the countries in the environment, and therefore I call on you to support this bill of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28788	Do the officials of the committees want the word, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, MP Marko Petrovic and the Legislative Committee, MP Bojan Pajtic? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miomir Ilic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Schumarac, this legislative project is certainly systemic and reformal, but its adoption under conditions of emergency for the Socialist Party is not realistic and we believe that it should be considered in the ordinary procedure in the National Assembly as the highest legislative body. We, MPs from the opposition, were not able to treat this law in an adequate way, to improve it and to improve it with an adequate opinion, professional proposals and amendments. Putting on the agenda of this session of such a law on Friday at 20.00 hours, with the possibility of making amendments up to 24.00 hours, given that it is in the ordinary procedure, although this proposal was made a month ago, it is still wrong for us on the part of the SPS to agree to this procedure, or to draw up the agenda of this session, we do not accept. I will make certain characteristic remarks and suggestions in this presentation. I believe that the SPS in this way and in these conditions this legal project cannot accept. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proposer of this legislative project, explains the reason for the adoption of a whole new law on planning and construction, states that so far legislative solutions do not allow the achievement of the market concept of governance, equality of treatment of different forms of property and the introduction of other reform changes in social-economic relations in the Republic of Serbia. The new planning law, the proponent said, should be reform and systematic. If we accept the explanation of the draft law on planning and construction, that the current legislative solutions from the law package set out by the minister, which is the Law on building buildings, the Law on Planning and Planning of Space, the Law on Building Land, the Law on Specific Conditions for issuing building permits, or the use of permits for certain buildings, did not allow potential investors to have a faster and simpler process of obtaining approval for construction and that there is a reform approach, then it is unacceptable that such an important law for Serbian citizens is adopted in a non-democratic manner and in conditions of emergency. There has been an expert debate in certain professional institutions, but we do not have the opinion of these professional institutions here, what they have put on the working text of the bill. Without allowing MPs to submit amendments from the moment of the session's appointment, despite perhaps the good will of the proponents for a better solution from this area, because of the way this law is passed, it loses importance. It is not a success to pass seven laws in one week's state of emergency, and during the other six, as one of the leaders said. More important than that, the National Assembly has passed such laws that will be applicable in practice and will not be valid for a year or two, but for decades. The SPS is not against the adoption of new laws, including this one, but believes that this proposal has many weaknesses which, as well as the SPS MPs during the debate in principle, I will point out, since we were unable to submit amendments for exceptional reasons. Article 3 The draft law lays down the principles of regulation of space, and Article 16 of the basic planning document of spatial planning. The basic plan document under the draft law is the Strategy for the Spatial Development of the Republic of Serbia, and is adopted for a period of 10 years. So this basic plan is based on the overall development and further development of this legal solution. This law annuates the already adopted 1996 Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. I will note that in the development of the Space Plan, the Republic of Serbia participated alongside the Institute for Architecture and Urbanism of Serbia, as the bearer of activities, numerous scientific and professional institutions and individuals. It was created from 1989 to 1996 and went through the widest public debate. The space plan of the Republic of Serbia in 1996 established long-term foundations for the organisation, arrangements and use of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, based solely on expert analyses and solutions and their development and adoption did not affect policy. It was built for a 20-year period. The proposal for a new law on planning and construction is not taken into account but rather the existing Spatial Plan of the Republic of Serbia, but Article 16(1) provides for the adoption of a new plan document, a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia, for a period of less than ten years. The fact is forgotten that many capital facilities have been built or started to be built on the basis of an existing 1996 Serbian spatial plan, such as water supply facilities, which are vital to Serbian citizens. Taking into account the law on spatial planning of European planning criteria can be fine, but only on one condition, that these criteria meet our conditions. The question is whether to take the European criteria, so-called NUTS from 1 to 5, the nomenclature of statistical territories, territorial units according to European Union standards for the development of a future strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia, corresponds to our conditions. One of the important components for the development of Serbia's spatial development strategy is the demographic factor, and especially the tendencies and problems of Serbia's spatial demographic development in Serbia's urban and rural settlements, as well as the projection of Serbia's population. There is no mention of the most important factor in this proposal, and that is a demographic factor. If we don't have a population and we don't care about it, what we need plans for, what we need. In Article 17(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The bill says: "The strategy sets out the long-term goals of spatial planning and development in line with the overall economic, social, ecological and cultural historical development. "There is not in this bill the most important factor of development, which is demographic development. The best planning law will have no significance if Serbia is left without a population. Therefore, Serbia's demographic development must be a component of Serbia's spatial development strategy. No agencies, committees for plans, councils and other envisaged bodies will have a major impact on improving the situation in spatial planning, unless the basic plan document of Serbia's spatial development strategy is comprehensive. Urbanist plans; the promoter believes that new legal solutions will make urban planning lead to a meaningful, rational, economic and humane arrangement of space and settlements, and above all more flexible planning. It believes it will simplify and speed up the process of issuing building approval and make the construction of the obits itself more efficient and economical. That's what Mr. Minister here said, and that would be so real. It is true that Serbian citizens will not bother to obtain the various consent needed to draw up the urban plan, as the commitment has been passed on to public enterprises. Is it realistic that all municipalities in Serbia are serving within 18 months in the proposal, urban plans representing the starting basis for the request of an interested person to issue an act on urban conditions. Many municipalities in Serbia do not have economic strength, especially those who would participate in the work of the urban planning commission. The time limit given to the competent authority for issuing acts on urban conditions from 30 days from the date of submission shall be acceptable to the person concerned. We are not convinced that this is realistic, since strict conditions remain for obtaining all the necessary conditions and consent for the development of the urban plan. Article 51. The bill provides for conditions to be met by responsible urbanists. We believe that high professional preparedness, adequate work experience, professional results on urban designs and passed professional exams are quite sufficient, and for this reason it is unnecessary that the recommendations of two responsible urbanists are made, as in our terms anyone can confirm it for each one, Mika for Zika, Pera for Mika. I don't think there's any reason for people who have a license to finish college and pass a professional exam, to have results and to have a recommendation now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28790	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28791	So, let's cut it out. Okay, then I'm breaking up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-16-0.u28792	As far as I'm concerned, MP, you may proceed, but formally, respect for the Rules of Procedure means that the afternoon session takes up to 1800 hours. This concludes work for today and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours by reviewing the draft law on planning and construction. Thank you.
