ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25406	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 154 MPs. Please insert identification cards into your MPs for identification purposes. I'd like to inform you that we have a quorum and we can continue our work. I would also like to inform you that there is no notice of absence from this session by the Members of the People. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement of Resistance, the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and teachers of Serbia and the USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. I'd like to inform you that, according to Article 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the formed parliamentary group "Serbia", which numbers five members and whose chairman is MP Marko Petrovic, and the deputy MP Zivko Selakovic. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. You were presented the minutes of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 10, 11, 12, 13, 17 and 18 December 2002. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Committee found that there were no written observations made to the minutes and therefore I am voting on the minutes of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 10, 12, 13, 17 and 18 December 2002. For 124, none, with abstentions, voted 64, out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session. According to the Rules of Procedure, National Envoy Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25407	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 38. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. Earlier, the president of the National Assembly, Ms Natasa Micic, said a new parliamentary group called "Serbia" had been formed and that he was the vice president of the MP club Zivko Selakovic. This is about the clean kidnapping of MPs who were at the Party of Serbian Unity club. We were with another member of our political group, who signed for the phantom newly formed group "Serbia", we spoke; he realized that he was deceived and he returned to the SSJ parliamentary club. So, we informed the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accordingly, he gave up his membership in the new group in writing and said he was irrevocably staying at the Soviet Parliament club. Probably why the president of the assembly didn't read who the other members of this phantom political club were, otherwise, nothing in this assembly like mushrooms after the rain. Secondly, MP Zivko Selaković was granted a written letter to the president of the Assembly to allow membership in the SSJ parliamentary club, excluded from the party and coalition and, under Article 88(1). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, he can no longer be a People's Messenger. We are asking the president of the Assembly to honour the written statements she received from the Soviet Parliament group. So Zivko Selakovic can no longer be a national MP, and at least he can be the deputy head of some phantom parliamentary group. I would also like to invite you to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, to Article 88, if there is any justice in this assembly, in the Administrative Committee, that our written objections be adopted and that this MP, Zivko Selaković, leaves the Assembly, because it is about a man who was previously in the Assembly Club of the Soviets excluded and can no longer be an MP for this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25408	Mr Pelevic, I read the notice on the formation of a new parliamentary group on the basis of a memo and the fact that the MPs have signed it. I cannot rule out individual MPs based on written statements. There's a procedure and you know it well. The Administrative Committee shall decide on that. As for Article 88's injury. The law on the election of MPs, you also know that this is not my decision, but other institutions, such as the Constitutional Court. Therefore, if you are not satisfied with my answer, it may also give you an explanation of the Administrative Committee. Are you asking the Administrative Board to deliver? Of course. ) I ask the Management Board to meet within 24 hours following the remarks of MP Borislav Pelevic. The word is made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Micic, I invite you to read a memo that I delivered to you half a month of December. In that letter, I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group is suspending three members of the parliamentary club until further notice, and I would like to inform you that the fate of these MPs in the New Serbia party will be decided by the main committee. For that reason, I'm just surprised you can put people in two clubs if we didn't let you. At this point, three MPs who make up 60% of some new group of "Serbia" are members of New Serbia. They are in suspended status and until the decision of the General Committee their status is unchanged. For this reason, by joining the appeal of the head of the party's parliamentary group, I think you're doing an illegal thing. And one more thing: it is truly regrettable that you are trying to steal that quota that belongs to New Serbia in the new state union, that is, the new state union assembly, and that quota is three, reduce and thus strengthen that part of DOS that needs power. By the way, I also inform MPs who missed it that the original DOS coalition belongs to the newly formed Serbian Parliament of 64 mandates. The result comes from the simplest three-way rule, which Branislav Nušić also spoke of. If someone is truly unknown to that simple rule threefold, we can find really a man mathematically, or arithmetically described, to show it to them. So, "New Serbia" took one mandate; the Democratic side of Serbia was not taken a single mandate, 16 mandates belonged to it; and of course, you did not dare to kidnap here where they are stronger, but you are taking away from the weaker. Please don't do this. Otherwise, if it's really that mandate, so you'll take it later, it's no problem, you'll pick it up later, etc. So, once again, it is unacceptable for some MPs to be members of two parliamentary clubs. However, their status has been frozen at the New Serbia Parliament Club. They were self-initiated. I'm surprised you're letting it happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25410	Mr. Cirkovic, you did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure you are advertising, but I can tell you that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure because Article 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that the parliamentary group is being established by submitting to the National Assembly a list of members, which each member of the parliamentary group has signed. The list specifically lists the president of the parliamentary group and his deputy. That's the kind of document I have, and I read out of it a notice about the formation of a parliamentary group. If you are not satisfied, the Management Board will give you a written explanation. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, of the People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25411	Ladies and gentlemen, this question has already been raised about the John Glamocan syndrome, which you are multiplying, taking away various parties of parliamentary mandates, so I would not draw attention to this kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure, although it is very, very serious, because such a violation of the National Assembly makes it illegal and illegal. I would draw your attention to the fact that today’s session of the National Assembly cannot be held because, under Article 79, paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia "The National Assembly is meeting in an extraordinary session at the request of at least a third of the total number of MPs or at the request of the Government, with an advanced agenda". In the assembly of this extraordinary session, or extraordinary session, we have received 86 signatures. It didn't take 86, it was enough 84 signatures, but only the signatures of MPs. However, in these 86 pitscripts there are signatures of people, a total of nine people, who can on no basis be MPs: Goran Vesic, Aleksandra Joksimović, Gorica Mojovic, Allen Selimović, Goran Ćirić, Nebojsa Leković, Petar Misic, Visnja Nezic and Branislav Pomorski. Once upon a time, they were MPs, resigned by their will, and their mandate ended on June 12th 2002, at the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at 10.40 p.m., when their resignation and termination of the mandate were established by the National Assembly. This is, of course, a very funny thing, just you laugh (the voice from the hall - and you're funny). Of course I'm funny too, because I've tried to distract you here many times to bring down the constitutional order of the country. For nothing, you smirks of laughter. Of course I'm funny, because amongst you guys who laugh a lot, I'm the only one who's trying to be serious and that's why I'm funny. I'm aware I'm funny. I'm aware of why I challenge your laughter, but I must persist on this path of fighting for democracy, for constitutional order. Here's your proof-- the proof that what I'm saying is impeccable is the record 01. 06-2/83-02, since 13 June 2002, which was adopted on 18 June 2002, at the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. So, the assembly determined the termination of their term of office, and then adopted a minutes from a session that found the end of the term of office. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. Here, I'll be right there. Therefore, these people have long been not MPs. They may be MPs again, but only when the procedure is carried out, to empty places, to find out, to go to the Republic Election Commission, to check that they are on your election list, and then go to the relevant committee of the National Assembly, so the National Assembly votes on verification, it finds. Thus, there are nine people here who have signed, who are not MPs. You don't have 84 signatures for an emergency session. I now expect Zoran Djindjic, as Prime Minister, to say his position, and as the leader of the DOS, of this current alleged parliamentary majority, and apparently you do not have a majority, to make a personal statement on this issue. You don't have to smile on Djindjic, but you come out here, you tell your attitude on this. And of course, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, as the competent minister of state administration's affairs, to say, can this do? If you think it can go on too quietly, it can, but only temporarily.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25412	I'm warning you, for the second time, that you've exceeded your allowed time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25413	Thanks for the warning, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25414	Mr. Seselj, I'm obliged to give you an answer. So, the National Assembly does not vote on mandates, but only determines the confirmation or termination of the term of office. So you didn't explain it well. You should've informed yourself a little more before you asked for a word. And secondly, as you know, a procedure on the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of provision 88 is under way before the Constitutional Court. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. So we can't decide that. The People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25415	Dear Mrs Micic, ladies and gentlemen, to a good extent and the intention that the Constitutional Charter and the law accompanying the implementation of the Constitutional Charter must be adopted by Parliament, there will be no disputed legitimacy, given that nearly 10% of the members of this Parliament, or 23 MPs and mandates, have been challenged so far, that I have proposed that by the end of the debate on this agenda, and before the vote, all decisions relating to the contested mandates be delivered to this assembly, that means 13 mandates. The MPs resigned and subsequently came to the decision of the Administrative Committee, on which these resignations were withdrawn, lodged or not accepted, as well as an explanation for all other MPs whose legitimacy in this assembly is being challenged. Because it would be extremely irresponsible of us to make a new state, i.e. to be supported by the decision of this assembly, whose assembly can at any time be called into question, i.e. to challenge the legitimacy of nearly 10% of the MPs in this Parliament. So my proposal is that the Management Board discusses this issue by the end of the session, delivers a decision before the vote, so that we know which MPs decide and what decision it will be accordingly made.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25416	You specifically asked the Management Board to submit reports on decisions taken on mandates before the vote, so I suggest that the Administrative Board delivers reports to the heads of Parliament, and related to what MP Dejan Mihajlov said. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Article 96? There are more MPs here, Mr. Seselj. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25417	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, honored guests, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to advertise the violation of Article 24(2). The Rules of Procedure, because our socialists were also stolen from us for five terms. Please, just slowly, I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure two months ago, in the meantime the Administrative Committee, although we delivered all relevant documents, did not resolve it. There was talk of some decision by the Constitutional Court, attitude, request, I don't know what, we didn't get any relevant documents as the National Assembly. Besides this, we hear now dilemmas about MPs who resigned: so they're just not there anymore. I think, given the topic of the agenda, it is a constitutional charter, a constitutional document, because we are discussing a new state union and I think it will be a big deal for both the document and the Assembly if these MPs who have been expelled from the SPS participate in the work of this assembly. We simply ask that our mandates return to us, to respect the provisions of the Law on the selection of MPs, that is Article 88, and that the SPS has in this assembly as many MPs as it has won in the 2000 elections, which is 37. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25418	There is no violation of Article 24(2) because it is said that the parliamentary group is composed of the MPs of one political party, another political organisation or group of citizens, which has at least five MPs. Therefore, that condition is fulfilled. You can't answer the same thing twice. The word has been given by MP Branislav Ivkovic, who also reported for the word, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25419	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when a group of people has nothing to share politically, then the same story begins again for the seventh time. I think we have fully absorbed this case, the Constitutional Court of Serbia has challenged the constitutionality of Article 88. The law on the election of MPs opened a public debate, and I remind you that the OSCE has also given its interpretation that the mandates are the property of the MPs. In that sense, I would also like to remind the following, that there is our lawsuit at the Supreme Court of Serbia against the decision of Minister Sabic on the legality of the SAA. After the congress of hypocrisy and the congress of self-production, I can say that the best answer is to those who privatise the idea of Socialists in these areas, given citizens of Despotovec and Leskovec who clearly showed who followed when it came to the idea of Socialists.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25420	In fact, there's no advertising on the Rules of Procedure's injuries here. If it is about mandates, I suggest you attend the board of directors' session and conduct a debate there, since there is no debate here on mandates. Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25421	Madam President, you are under Article 7(s) of Article 96(s) to give me an explanation for my objection. If I'm not satisfied, then invite the Administrative Board to come forward. You have not fulfilled your obligation, for you have not given me any explanation. You've been explaining to me something that's nothing to do with my objection at all. You gave me an explanation that you probably prepared for Pelevic, for Zarko Obradovic, for Dejan Mihajlov, but I brought other things out here. What I have presented is not a problem that is before the Constitutional Court, because these nine MPs have not been taken away from their mandates, they have not been taken away from them, they have voluntarily resigned and the Assembly has determined their resignations and explain it to me. You have the record that they have resigned, that every resignation without a vote has been established, because there is no vote, and now they are signed and still as if they are MPs. They even voted in favour of the budget, and we asked for a listing, the secretary of the National Assembly gave us no listing, although she was obliged to give us that listing. We've been looking for that list on the way. So your budget wasn't even voted regularly, you had nine votes down, there weren't 126, there were 117 present at the session when you voted on the budget. Explain this to me whether the MPs who resigned and whose resignations here have been established, confirmed, can continue to participate fully in the work of the National Assembly. Please, Mrs. Micic, be kind, please answer my question directly, not something I haven't asked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25422	I will be polite, Mr Seselj, for your remarks is the Administrative Committee and Rules of Procedure in Rule 69 says that this committee prepares and proposes regulations governing the issues of the exercise of the rights and duties of Members of Parliament, and in paragraph 2 that it adopts individual acts on the status issues of MPs and officials elected or appointed by the National Assembly, if the law is not otherwise specified. So your questions and your debate can be conducted exclusively in front of the Administrative Committee, not with me. I think I've been kind enough. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25423	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Article 24(2) is very clear. This is about the MPs of a political party and the disfellowshipped SPS members, it's five people, they've formed a new political party...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25424	Mr. Obradich, you're reporting again for the same thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25425	Because of the misreading, Mr. Seselj mentioned me...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25426	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25427	I have, I've been mentioned, and on behalf of the MPs' group, I have the right to a replica, and you can't take that right away from me. The second thing, these mandates belong to us, today or tomorrow, but it's a disgrace to the Assembly. As for the congress, he was on Saturday, so you had something to see, who wanted to see. The third thing, about the morale of these people, these disfellowshipped SPS members, the best moral assessment of these people, was given by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which confirmed that the 27 decisions were falsified.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25429	Madam President, I cannot say to the president, because if I were to address you as acting president of the Republic, I would have to say, ma'am. If we can't get the perp in here, the president can't come here either. The constitution says that there is a president of the National Assembly, the Constitution says that there is a President of the Republic and when there is no President of the Republic, he can be the performer of the duty. Until the Constitution changes according to the Constitution of the prescribed procedure, I must respect the Constitution, and I would like you to respect it. Don't deny me my precious time, because I don't have much time. It's about your violation of Article 83. According to article 83, you can also invite members of the government, the authorised representatives of other legislators, the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, as well as the other persons you call, says -- which the president of the National Assembly calls, does not stand - the president. So, you've invited nine people here and I don't mind. Those nine faces you called, you had some reasons to call them. You can also tell us what the reasons are, it would be desirable and it would be normal, but for whatever reason you invited them, you can't invite them to be voters, because those nine people are not members of the National Assembly. The question arises as to why you call these nine persons after you have determined their resignations as if they were MPs. Invite them in some other capacity, in any capacity, as beautiful, smart, handsome, worthy, etc., I don't mind. All the best attributes in superlatives can be given to them, only one thing they don't possess: they possess the status of MPs, while eventually someone doesn't verify them as MPs again, and that can't be too quiet. It must be procedured, the Republic Election Commission, the Administrative Committee, etc. Please answer me directly to this question, don't tell me - the Administrative Committee. You give me an explanation and explain to me why you invite people who are not messengers as if they were messengers of the people. If you've invited them in any other capacity, I don't mind. I'd be honored if they'd sit there, listen to our presentations, our discussions, etc., since they're all nice people. Some of them, and I know them personally, and I don't dispute their personality. However, as they may be in the status of the MP, it is not a matter of the Administrative Committee, but of you who invite people from the street to act as MPs and do not have the status of a MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25430	They were called to the status of MP. (Vojislav Seselj:Where did they get this status? They have that status. Can we get to the agenda? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, which was called at the request of a group of 86 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the First Extraordinary Session with the established agenda contained in that request. In accordance with Article 80(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within seven days because of the obligation that the National Assembly adopt the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Law for its implementation as soon as possible. As you could see, for the first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, the following Dn e n e d 1 was established. The text of the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, which was submitted by the Commission for the making of the text of the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, with the text of the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, which was submitted by the Commission for the drafting of the text of the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - THE CONSTITUTIONAL COUNTRY OF THE STATE COMMUNITY OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE AND THE LAW FOR THE IMPLEMENTING OF THE CONSTITUTIONS You have received the text of the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the text of the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which was submitted by the Commission for the drafting of the text of the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. You also received a supplement of the text's text Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the conclusion of the Commission's text-making charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, held on 16 January 2003. You have been presented with a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs with conclusions. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, is five hours and I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to hand me the lists of the declared by word. Before the search opens, please, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25431	Dear fellow Members of the People, in accordance with Article 90(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I propose that the total time of debate on this agenda be double, ten hours. We believe it is an extremely important document, that it is a document that changes the character of the state, that constitutional reform is implemented, and that it would be logical for the Assembly to discuss this document twice as much as the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25432	I put to the vote MP Zarko Obradovic's proposal that the total time for the debate is ten hours. For 111 against 106, the abstentions were not taken, were not voted by six, a total of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the total time for debate is five hours. So he didn't pass the proposal. I am opening a search and asking if Bosko Ristic, co-chairing the Commission for the Drafting of the Constitutional Charter of the National Community of Serbia-Montenegro, wants the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25433	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Prime Ministers and representatives of the Government, is before us the text of the Constitutional Charter and the text of the Constitutional Charter Act, which was drawn up by the Commission for the Making of Text, which has been delegated by all three parliaments, Serbia, Montenegro and the Federal Parliament. Starting with the Belgrade Agreement, from the conclusions reached by this assembly, respecting the content of the debates raised during the adoption of the conclusions on the drafting of the text of the Constitutional Charter, respecting amendments during the Constitutional Commission's work, submitted by authorised proposings, as well as representatives of various institutions, organisations and groups of citizens, the Constitutional Commission made up the text of the Constitutional Charter, which is adopted in the same form in all three congregations. The constitutional charter affirms redefining relations between Serbia and Montenegro. Member States shall be defined as equal members with the recognition of all elements of the statehood that they have acquired so far in fact. It is particularly important that in the preamble of the Constitutional Charter of the Member States, Serbia is treated uniquely with the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija, now under the rule of the international administration in accordance with Resolution 1244. We believe that this provision is extremely important, given that it respects Serbia's full integrity in this way and that Serbia is correcting its negotiating positions on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija, because if the Constitutional Charter is adopted in all three parliaments, I sincerely hope that it will be the first international legal act in which Kosovo and Metohija are recognised and treated as an integral part of Serbia. The Constitutional Charter defines the objectives of the future state union, which are, above all, the full protection of human rights, equality of citizens under the law, the establishment or affirmation of a free market economy based on all its dominant principles, on freedom of movement of people and capital, ideas and services. The Constitutional Charter, then, defines the institutions of the state union; above all, it is the assembly of the state community that elects its president and elects the council of ministers. This means that the future state union is a parliamentary democracy based on a multi-party system in which all human rights and freedoms will be respected, ensuring protection of minority rights, as well as freedom of association and political action. The head of the state union is the president of the state union who will also chair the council of ministers. The president of the state union is elected by parliament, and the council of ministers will be represented equally by representatives of the Member States, so that if the president of the state union is left with two other ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, and on the other hand, they will have a parity in the form of three members of the Council of Ministers. Two significant resolutions, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been particularly defined, and the principle is defined that if a minister is elected from one Member State, the deputy will be from another Member State. The vote in parliament, which will have 126 MPs, will be provided with a safeguard mechanism from voting, where a majority of each delegation made up of Member States will be required to adopt parliament decisions. Members of the assembly of the state union will be elected from the ranks of MPs of the current three parliaments: the National Assembly of Serbia, the Assembly of Montenegro and the Federal Assembly, all based on the political relationship between forces currently ruling in all three parliaments. That's how the Constitutional Command was defined. The procedure and the way in which MPs are elected to the assembly of the state union will be governed by the law of the Member States, as this represents their basic competence. It is particularly important that the Serbia-Montenegro Army, with the need to point out that the current Yugoslav Army is performing defence tasks, that it is under full civilian control, as provided for by the Constitutional Charter, and that the military will be managed and commanded by the Supreme Defence Council. Serbia-Montenegro as a state union has its own court. He will have constitutional and judicial jurisdiction. As regards constitutional and legal jurisdiction, it will also have the right to assess the compliance of acts of the institutions of the state union with the laws of the state union and with the Constitutional Charter, but also to determine the compliance of the Constitution and the laws of the Member States with the Constitutional Charter and its laws. The administrative and legal function concerns decision-making in administrative proceedings before the authorities and institutions of the state union, but the court of the state community will not have institutional jurisdiction. This means that the entire judicial system will be rounded up at Member State level and that it will not be possible to declare legal remedies to the court of the state, unless human rights protection at Member State level is provided, or if those human rights are violated in our diplomatic and consular representations, so that it is not possible to determine, on a territorial basis, the jurisdiction of the regular courts of the Member States. The Constitutional Command has defined both the procedure and the way in which it is adopted, its changes, the transitional provisions are laid down. We believe that the Constitutional Charter is a fundamental legal act that justifies the new state union and new relations between Serbia-Montenegro, which are based on the need to redecorate relations that are now in the SR Yugoslavia, above all, bearing in mind and in the known fact that the Republic of Montenegro has stepped out of the constitutional and monetary system of Yugoslavia and that it is necessary to develop new relations based on the different positions of Member States in the future state community. The Constitutional Charter notes another important fact, which is that the state community will be one internationally recognised legal entity and will continue membership in all global and regional organisations in which it has so far had its membership, so that it does not need the state community to seek admission to the organisation where it is now a member of the SR Yugoslavia. This right does not exclude Member States from self-emergence in international relations, but only in the event that they do not harm the interests of another Member State or the state community in general. In order to implement the Constitutional Charter, the text of the Law was also adopted before the Constitutional Commission, which defines the deadlines and method of establishing the institutions of the state union, i.e. providing political and legal preconditions for the state community to be able to live and to function. These provide time limits that are reasonably short, given the political need for Member States' relations to agree very quickly and to prevent the transition crisis, because we are just preparing by constitutional law for the transition of power, for the transition of affairs from federal authorities to the republican authorities, thus creating political legal preconditions for Serbia's Member State to fully institutionally round up its statehood. Some jobs will be held at the level of the state community. These are: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and other affairs which, in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, are not transferred to the Member States. But we have provided conditions and deadlines that will prevent the transition crisis and allow for complete continuity in the exercise of power and in the protection of human rights, continuity in the protection of the interests of the Member States. It is particularly important to point out that the Charter of Human and Minority Rights will be drawn up in the same procedure as the Constitutional Charter and the Constitutional Law, where it is defined that until the statutes are adopted in parliaments, it will not be possible to establish a congregation of the state union. This is the protection of minority rights in which minority representatives insisted, in order to ensure continued protection of civil and minority rights, in a way that guarantees the highest standards in internationally recognised documents and in recommendations that we have implemented through both the Constitutional Charter and through the future Charter of Human and Minority Rights. In particular, when it comes to the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, it was about the assets of the SR Yugoslavia. I would like to say that it is incorrect in public that the future state union will be left without property and that its institutions will have the opportunity to do their jobs assigned to them by the Constitutional Charter, and the manner of implementation is governed by the Constitutional Law. First of all, during the transitional period, the Yugoslav Army will, for example, use all the assets it has so far, without the possibility of the state community and the Member States having in any way this property, until the adoption of a federal law on the property of the state community which will regulate what property is necessary for the funkconization of its institutions and the Yugoslav Army. So far, the Yugoslav Army was not the owner, so it was not the holder of property rights but was the sole beneficiary, while the head of property rights was the SRJ. That's how it's gonna be in the future. Instead of SRJ, the head of these rights will be the future state union. That is why I believe that some untapped political statements in this regard were aimed at disturbing the public and distracting the facts of the political marketing of certain political parties. In particular, the way MPs were elected to parliament of the future state union was discussed. Since the Constitutional Charter defines that MPs will be elected from the order of all three parliaments, and a proportionate proportion of the political forces, it was not an appropriate requirement for this way of elections to be elaborated more closely through the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, as both the Constitutional Charter and the Constitutional Law are adopted in a special procedure, without the possibility of investing amendments, for the reasons that these texts must be adopted at the same time in all three parliaments, in order to be able to live and the state together to function. We therefore felt that the way MPs were elected should be regulated in more detail by a special law which is within the competence of the Member States, so that MPs in parliaments would have the opportunity to act on the proposed solutions and to adopt this law in accordance with the legislative procedure and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. When switching certain transactions from federal to republican institutions or from taking over entire institutions with their powers, organisation and position from federal to republican level, it is particularly necessary to highlight the controversy that prevailed around the National Bank of Yugoslavia, which shares the fate of those institutions that cross the republican level and corresponds to the republican parliament and the republican authorities for their work. Around the crossing of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the representation of our fiscal interests in international financial organisations and institutions was a lot of political controversy. I point out that the National Bank of Yugoslavia shared the fate of all those institutions that have moved to work or which, under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, will move to work as republican authorities. However, the Serbian Constitution foresees a national bank of Serbia, and it is certain that this parliament has the right to determine the future position, organisation and authority of the national bank of Serbia and thus build an institution that will bring Serbia into a level playing field with Montenegro, which has already been built by all these institutions in 1999 and thus circled its institutional system. This is not a matter of personal solutions, because all performers on a federal level will either change their status and share the fate of all officials from the federal level of government. The Law implementing the Constitutional Charter defines the position of employees in the federal administration, and currently the federal administration has about 10,500 employees, many of whom represent a functional surplus. However, it will be taken over by all employees working on jobs to be taken over by the republican authorities in the transition of powers and in accordance with the law implementing the constitutional law. Functions have been placed in the same position as other employees and have been allowed to be available within a year and to make the payment of the entitlements to them on the basis of the termination of their functions, and as toregulatory in the Member States as well. We believe that the adoption of the Constitutional Charter Act secures full implementation and therefore I call on all MPs to vote for both the Constitutional Charter and the Constitutional Law, because political support and political consensus of all major political parties in Serbia-Montenegro are necessary for the implementation of these texts. Once again, I point out that this is a special procedure for adopting the text of the Constitutional Law and the Constitutional Charter, that there are no amendments during the debate, and that the right to use the amendments has been used during the seven-month work of the Constitutional Commission, which has just been working on amendments and proposals and has sought compromises on certain definitions and solutions of the constitutional Charter and constitutional law most adapted to the interests of the Member States but also the political relationship between Serbia-Montenegro's citizens and political mood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25434	I thank the proposing representative and I give my word to Mr Zoran Djindjic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today is in a position to end the long-standing crisis of relations between Serbia and Montenegro and to remove a serious obstacle to our European integration. Of course, I'm aware of the fact that the text proposed is far from perfection and far from ideal. Many objections have been made during the work on the Charter, and many remarks will be made today. Many of these remarks are based on arguments and I fully respect them. However, I think at this point this is the best solution, if we talk about practical feasibility, not just quality. I firmly stand by the view that this is a solution in Serbia's interest. Of course, some other solutions are possible, and above all they are possible in theory. When we talk about their practical implementation, we'll see that they're a little less possible. Two clean solutions when one federal community finds itself in a crisis are fortification of its federal structures or voluntary contractual separation. This is recommended and most countries in the world have taken advantage of such a recommendation in times of crisis in their federal structures. We have such differences. On the other hand, we have situations fortifying federal structures after the crisis in internal relations. However, I don't think the second solution is recommended in our situation, and I don't think this first solution, however attractive it may seem, is possible. One federal state that I think is a good solution in principle, and it has proved to be a good solution in many historical cases, requires certain conditions and assumptions that are not arbitrary, are not psychological and must exist in one identified way. So it's not just about the current political will, it's about accepting certain deep assumptions. The first deep assumption for the functioning of a federal state is the pervasion of structures, persuasion of political, economic, cultural and other life through these two federal units, without any bounds between them in matters of importance. That would mean that the elections for the federal community's political authorities are being held on the principle of "one voter - one vote". It's the only way to eliminate the confederal character of a community, because every kind of election key leads to then forming coalitions at the higher levels of that community, based practically on the relations of forces in the members of that federal unit, and then we don't have one federal unit that has two or three members inside of us, but we have an agreement between two or three members that can be called the Federation, but it's based on the confederations. It's something we've had seven or eight years since 1992. It was actually something that we had implicitly during the time of our Yugoslav federalism, and it was covered up by the fact that there were no real elections, but there was one party who held that community for 50 years. It didn't give her a federal character, it only covered up the absence of true federal structures. Other people who are for the federal common state in Montenegro are not for elections to take place on the principle of "one man - one vote". I understand their reasons for the huge difference in size of those two federal units. That principle would, of course, lead to a rather limited impact of a federal unit in the bodies themselves and the influence on the federal level. It's a given condition. Therefore, the basic observation and the fundamental question is that this is not structurally possible. We can build a federal roof as much as we want, but the confederal foundation, which is basically that building, will, after a while, rock that roof and we'll come back into the constitutional crisis. I am aware of all the arguments that can be expressed in favour of that one good Federation is much better than what we are now making, but you have to consider that it is not just a matter of desire and will, but it is a question of the deep structures of a society and of a political system. That didn't happen in our space, that's reality. There may be many other elements that are the basic conditions of a real federal arrangement to be cited, but I think this one is already enough. As for this other pure option that's been proposed, which I also have respect for, because I understand the arguments that are not easy, is that, if it can't be one regulated federal state, then let's go to a clean separation right now, because pure solutions, in principle, are better than rotten compromises. I don't think that what we're making right now is a rotten compromise and I don't think separation would be in Serbia's interest and in the interest of all of us living in these areas. The first reason I think you should be very careful. If in one generation you have problems with one community that has been created by generations and that rests on both emotional and historical relationships, you need to be careful whether you draw radical conclusions from a crisis of relationships that lasts for several years and that you actually cut off something that lasts for a century or maybe longer. It is also necessary to give another generation, the next generation, to assess whether it is a definitive thing, whether something cannot be fixed there, and also, I think that one part of it was artificial and that it was, in some way, part of one political programme, crisis or process, in which the status of the common state was instrumentalised, so that this dissatisfaction with the common institutions or the common life in large part was not authentic, but was due to another dissatisfaction. The question is whether, in other conditions and in the second schedule, power will gradually not be diminished and one natural relationship will arise. It might be a shame to cut now, if we can find another solution. Another reason is that it would be a very negative signal if we continued the process of disintegration in our part of the Balkans. Our basic political position, as the people who live here, was that we didn't need new less and less countries, that we wanted integration, that we wanted to be part of a single space without hard borders, that we wanted to deal with our people's involvement in Western world civilization, not that everyone was building their own space and that they were then trying to find a connection to the increasingly global world. As the world globalizes, we need to localize. I don't think that's a good message and that that's what we're taking from our people the optimism he needs to catch up with those who have already gone far away from us in these global integration processes. The last thing that I think is important, is that we would lose the pace necessary for our country's development, if we were to go in detail now to divide and solve our mutual relations. I think today our priority stemmed from the deficits we inherited. Our biggest deficit was our isolation from international relations. So much, our first priority should be to make up for it. We'll solve our interrelationships over time. If, by solving our internal relations, we miss this historic opportunity to step forward to the developed and modern, however ideally we solve our inner relations, it won't be much of an interest to our children and our grandchildren. They will go to live where politicians were ready to recognize priorities, which is: make their country competitive economically, make their institutions quality and comparable with other countries and allow your people to, working in your country, in your economy, be part of rich and respectable countries, and not -- separate on one blind track, solve relations in that car or in that composition, while that train history has long gone. I think we've missed so many chances over the last 20 years that we can't miss another chance. So much, I think this is a solution, which means giving Serbia-Montenegro space, broad enough that each of those republics in that common country can make their interests come true and secondly, give enough time to the community to check their solutions and find some better solutions, that this is a more favourable option than the theoretical and political maybe cleaner solutions at this point, which is - if it can't be a real Federation, then it's better nothing. That may sound cleaner, but I think in reality it carries greater risks and higher costs for our country, above all I think of Serbia. I think that Serbia in this common state will be well preserved, its interest will be well preserved, much better than in one community it has been in so far. Of course, every community carries certain compromises. And this carries certain compromises, but much less than ever in our history. I've seen it in public to mention how much it's gonna cost. I don't think that question is that dramatic at all. The highest cost of that country, almost the only real cost of that country, is the military. The military is in Serbia's interest and I think that Serbia, as it has so far, will fund the army. The army is 95% of Serbia's army and composed of people from Serbia. It is natural for two members to finance these functions at the participation of the population and of the gross social product, as this will be their functions. I don't think that's weird at all, nor is it against Serbia's interest. We need to finance what Serbia needs. We and you as parliament will have control over that budget. For the first time in history, the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, will control its costs. In fact, this joint budget will first pass through this assembly and will be controlled by the budgetary authorities of this government and this assembly. I think it's one quite enough guarantee that no one will live on whose account and that everyone will basically pay their own expenses. I think the status of the common state has become a narrow throat in the last year or the last two years. If we don't open that bottleneck, we have big problems. Many people are not aware of this and are not familiar or less concerned about these problems, but they are serious. We could have adopted the charter in November, in the previous years, that we had quotas to export to the European Union, which would have allowed our meat, textiles, wood, skin producers jobs of several tenths to several hundred million euros or dollars. We didn't get that quota. We're the only country in this region that doesn't have that quota, because we don't have a state status. There, in these areas, hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens work and they are the direct victims of the delay or indecisiveness that has been shown in the work of making that solution. Then, agreements and arrangements with the IMF, and afterwards with the World Bank, have been postponed in waiting for the country's fixed status, because all these serious international institutions, which make arrangements for 10 or 20 years, want to know who they're making the deal with -- whether it's more expensive or if it's another state. These institutions have a function, especially the IMF has a function of some type of front door in a whole series of other institutions. And commercial banks and other Councils of Financial Institutes, if the IMF postpones its decisions, they all continue to postpone their decisions. All our companies that have arrangements, credit, export or various others are actually affected by this delay. So it's time for us to make the decision, whatever it is, but to make it. Sometimes waiting for a better opportunity to miss what's a real chance. Since I don't see an alternative except for a delay, I don't see any other proposal that can get most of it except this, I urge you to vote for it, to vote for the charter, and for the law on its implementation, with full awareness of the imperfection of this solution. This is no political, party, ideological personal question. I think this is in the state and national interest. This is consistent with reality. You've been chosen and we've been chosen to solve real problems. History, the theory will be written by someone else, we have to solve daily problems. Without a solution to the status of the common state, we are introducing our people into deep economic problems. Please use your mandate to solve this problem and start dealing with other issues, primarily the issue of economy and the standard of living of our citizens. Thank you for your attention. Use your voice to help our country finally resolve its state issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25436	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. Before we continue to discuss the discussions of the president of the parliamentary groups, one notice - we will approach the vote after the joint debate is over. The word is from MP Borislav Pelevic, authorised representative of the Serbian Unity Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25437	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, unlike Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who says the Constitutional Charter is in Serbia's interest, I think exactly the opposite. I am deeply convinced that the Constitutional Charter is at the expense of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. I'll state three basic reasons, which I'll try to explain in detail during my exposure. The first reason is that Serbia is again unequal in the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. The second reason is that the constitutional charter is, in fact, merely a formalisation of the collapse of the common state and a delay in Montenegro's secession for three years, as it has been allowed by this constitutional charter. The third reason is because Kosovo and Metohija status are at stake, regardless of the preamble of the Constitutional Charter mentions Kosovo and Metohija as one of Serbia's provinces. Article 2 states that "Serbia and Montenegro are based on the equality of the two Member States, the state of Serbia and the state of Montenegro". I am also in favour of Serbia-Montenegro's full equality, but for equality that applies proportionally to the size of the territory, and we all know that Serbia is several times larger than Montenegro, for equality that relates proportionally to the number of people, because Serbia has 8 million and Montenegro only 650,000 inhabitants; I am in favour of equality that relates proportionally to the economic and natural resources of Serbia, on the one hand, and Montenegro, on the other hand. Several members are in breach of this Article 2 and otherwise the entire Constitutional Charter is composed of members who are in collegiate with some other members of the Constitutional Charter. It is said, as far as equality is concerned, in article 20, that the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is single-handed and 126 MPs, 91 of whom are from Serbia, 35 from Montenegro, and that is where equality is mentioned again. That is not true, because if there are 6,400,000 voters registered in Serbia, that means, when shared with 91 MPs, that 70,000 voters vote for one MP. There are 450,000 voters in Montenegro. When it is divided by 35 MPs, given by Montenegro to the Federal Assembly, that means that only 12,000 Montenegrin voters vote for one MP. We're absolutely not even. I will also list another member talking about Serbia-Montenegro's inequality. Article 34 states: "In Serbia-Montenegro's international organisations, the United Nations, the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, the European Union, the Council of Europe, the Member States are presented on a parity basis, through rotation." What it means -- one year it will be a representative of Montenegro, and one year it will be a representative of Serbia. I am deeply convinced that representatives of Montenegro will work in all international institutions to separate Montenegro from Serbia. What is this equality and how we can be even if we are so numerically greater than Montenegro, and we have parity and rotation in international organisations and institutions. This is another example of Serbia's inequality in this common state, which is being created in this way. It says here, in Article 3: "Serbia-Montenegro's objectives are to create a market economy based on freedom of entrepreneurship, competition and social justice," and Article 12 states: "Serbia and Montenegro have a common market". What is this common market, when we have one currency in Montenegro, which is the euro and the other currency in Serbia, the dinar? It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. What is this common market when we have two customs systems, different, two tax systems, when we don't have an absolutely common market? What does that mean, why was that member put in the first place, when it is known that he is not responding to the real situation and that he will never be applied? Someone go out and tell me that it will be the same currency in Serbia-Montenegro, after the adoption of the charter, and then we may vote for the charter, but in this case, Montenegro and Serbia have nothing in common. The more common has the European Union, which is a union of independent, sovereign states, some of which are republics, some kingdoms, whatever. They have their armies, their constitutions, their police. So they're completely sovereign states. They even have a common currency. They have no customs, no borders, and Serbia-Montenegro, unfortunately, has a limit. She'll have it later, on Brodarev. Somebody tell me who's gonna lift the police checkpoints and customs on Brodarev? It won't be. It's just empty stories. Article 5 of Article 2 states: "Serbia-Montenegro's border is non-injurious. "What about the status of Kosovo and Metohija? Why did none of our leaders react to statements by Albanian leaders, who said this year, 2003, would be the year of independence for Kosovo and Metohija? No one reacted. It is not listed in the Constitutional Charter either, it just says that Serbia-Montenegro's border is non-injurious, and it has already been injured. It is already part of Serbia under the occupation of the international community. Article 16 states that "the ratified international agreements and the widely accepted rules of international law have primate over the law of Serbia-Montenegro and the law of the Member States". And this is common in almost all the constitutions of European countries, but the question is raised -- how is it possible that this member is then in a college with Article 60, which clearly states, when it comes to Montenegro and Serbia, that they have the opportunity to secede after three years and admit it to the international community. What happens to Kosovo and Metohija in that case? That's what all Serbian citizens must worry about. In the Constitutional Charter, it is written so that in the event of Montenegro's secession all international agreements concerning Kosovo and Metohija, in particular Resolution 1244, will be and apply only to Serbia, and that is good. But Article 16 says that ratified international contracts are higher than our legal contracts, including the Constitutional Charter. This means that if Montenegro stands out in three years, or even three years, as their leaders say, and don't forget, we all remember what Mr Djukanovic said at the meeting of the Montenegrin Parliament when he represented his programme as Montenegro's prime minister. He said Montenegro would be independent in three years, and then what are we talking about? Then why are we wasting our time, adopting this charter, when it is clear to everyone that it is the real interest of the ruling nomenclature in Montenegro? So, the question arises -- in the case of secession of Montenegro, what about Kosovo and Metohija? Resolution 1244 views Kosovo and Metohija as part of the common state, Yugoslavia. When Montenegro is singled out, there is no longer a common state, and the Albanian leaders will automatically ask the Security Council to grant them, in accordance with the resolution, the establishment of an independent Albanian state. And in vain, he writes in that member of the Constitutional Charter that he will refer only to Serbia, when Article 16 clearly states that the international law, which has been ratified by us, is more than our legal acts, and hence by the Constitutional Charter. So the question is, what about Kosovo and Metohija in that case? There are many more things in this charter that can be talked about, but I am deeply convinced that the basis for the adoption of this constitutional charter is just to bring the ruling nomenclature into line in Serbia and Montenegro, and the citizens of Serbia need to know that this constitutional charter is in line with the DOS and Montenegro's DPS; in fact, there will be funding of the administration, and this will be another one of the adverse consequences that Serbian citizens will have since the adoption of this constitutional charter. To be clear, the Serbian Unity Party is programmeically defined for the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, but not for the common state that Javier Solana will make for us, the same one who bombed us and who brought a document on an agreement you called "the Belgrade Agreement" and which is the basis of the adoption of this constitutional charter. We are for the Serbian citizens to freely declare in a referendum whether they want to live in a community with Montenegro and what kind of state it should be, not that several powerful men from Serbia and Montenegro determine the fate of both us and our children. So it was very difficult to make this decision, because this decision really concerns the survival of the common state. We in the party had several consultations on this topic, and the final decision our parliamentary club made just before the beginning of this assembly, at the last meeting of the parliamentary group. We have decided to vote against the constitutional charter and against the law on its implementation, convinced that it will have adverse consequences for the interests of Serbian citizens and the state of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all members of the Soviet Union - I mean 14, I am convinced that the Administrative Committee will decide to exclude this man named Zivko Selakovic and who was bribed by the DOS, who has left, will rule him out on our request and that we will get 14 MPs - will vote against this constitutional charter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25438	National MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25439	Dear fellow MPs, the respected presidency, Prime Minister, Ministers, the SPS parliamentary group will vote against the adoption of the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the accompanying law, as they do not create a common state, on the contrary, the existing state of Yugoslavia is being abolished, nothing is being created by the state and, essentially, two independent states are being created. Under one, the Constitutional Charter is also the formal and essential abolition of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the common state of Serbia-Montenegro and all citizens. Signatories of this document, all who participated in its creation, should tell citizens of Serbia-Montenegro that they have abolished one state of Yugoslavia and are responsible for its disappearance. Yugoslavia, a state that has existed as a republic and monarchy since 1929, has been abolished as such and has been recognised and known in the world, which was one of the founders of the United Nations, has been a member of the Society of Peoples, members of numerous international organisations, and universal and regional. After all that Yugoslavia has gone through, I mean wars, crackdowns, violence, now in peacetime, the signatories of the agreement and the creators of the state and the name - Yugoslavia. I ask, on behalf of the SPS, why and in whose interest? The abolition of Yugoslavia, at least so far, has only been sought by separatists, so-called The international community, which has repeatedly confirmed its negative relationship with Yugoslavia over the past decade, most drastically during 78 days and nights of the bombing. Secondly, the Constitutional Charter as a document implementing constitutional reform is adopted without any attitude or opinion of the citizens. There was no public debate on this document. Content could only be heard through the media, but also then according to the predetermined scenario. Not only could the citizens of Serbia not affect the contents of the constitutional charter, but those elected by citizens, and these are MPs. We Members of the People, except for the words spoken, are not given the opportunity to modify the contents of the Charter through the amendment. Amendments cannot be tolerated because the text must be accepted as it is written, or refused, but without the possibility of change. Besides citizens and MPs, even the professional public had no opportunity to influence the content of the Charter. This is more than anything about the undemocratic character of this document, the dictatorship of political will, the dictatorship of Solana, the one he represents, the DOS dictatorship and their like-minded. A voice from the O.R. And a Jinx. That's what you said, I'll talk about it later. Third, the Constitutional Charter represents a constitutional change in the position of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The constitution of the SRJ for the change of the Constitution, i.e. the state arrangement, provides for a proposal that supports at least 100,000 voters, several dozen federal MPs, there is also the Federal Government, and then there are decisions by the Assembly councils made by a two-thirds majority, the consent of the republic's parliaments. None of the above, none of the mandatory work has been done, and the common state has been abolished. The political elites of Serbia-Montenegro have been distracting citizens for months, and this is the story of how solutions are sought to improve the functioning of the future common state, the way they are represented in international institutions, the way MPs are elected, etc., and essentially for months now, the constitutional commission has been running a single desert procedure, determining what is who and how much of the previous Yugoslavia remains, what is the legacy of Serbia and what is Montenegro. This is also confirmed by the provisions of the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Charter, where the federal authorities and organisations, the departments that are abolished, start with the Ministry of Interior, Justice, Finance, Transport and Telecommunications, are taxed through various federal inspectorates - budgetary, administrative, market, etc.; then secretariats for information, legislation, development and science, work and social ageing, sport, religion, etc. There are also various institutions, directors, agencies, cultural institutions and services. Other provisions of this proposal of the law on the takeover of jobs, i.e. the takeover of employees, a number of provisions that cannot be counted for a short period of time, confirm the essence of the work the constitutional commission has been dealing with, which is the abolition of Yugoslavia and the takeover of the authority of the future independent states of Serbia-Montenegro and the finding of a solution for so-called. The state - Serbia-Montenegro, in principle, is bound by the future state to any independent work and decision-making, that this situation lasts for three years and that the referendum on segregation is expected as a relief for hardships where the common state is located and as a logical way out of the impossible situation. Fourthly, the Constitutional Charter with its contents, but even more in the way some solutions have been adopted, has also shown the role of the international community, Solana and the European Union in breaking Yugoslavia. Their role is very long, and I have to say very successfully, wings from the public. In April of last year, when this house discussed the Belgrade Agreement, we heard from Mr Djindjic that Solana was just a witness and nothing more, and now on the multiple sides, both from signatories and others, we hear that Solana dictated the agreement. Solana was also a guarantee of the state's existence at the time; it should have had more joint functions, but in the meantime, the concept was abandoned and there was a complete collapse of one state, Yugoslavia and the creation of two new ones. Solana and the European Union have said nothing against it. They welcomed the signing of the constitutional charter and thus agreed to break the state and create new independent states. In April of the month, in this same home, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have warned of the possibility of following silent savings in the public on the abolition of Yugoslavia. I said then that the referendum in Montenegro is knowingly delayed because the referendum in Yugoslavia cannot be abolished and that it should be done by the political elites of Serbia-Montenegro through the talks. If a referendum was allowed in Montenegro, a referendum would certainly be allowed for Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, a referendum and Serbs in Republika Srpska would certainly be allowed, and then the Balkans would look different compared to what the European Union and Solana want. Instead of a referendum, or citizens’ statements, it is easier for so-called the international community, which is for them personally, to sit at the negotiating table and to agree on the abolition of a country on their behalf and for the sake of the West's interest. When we look back at the decade behind us and look at how the former SFRY was broken, when we look at how the Western countries acted, when we look at the contents of the documents that were offered as a platform for solving problems, we find out that some of the elements of these plans have been contained since 1991 in this constitutional charter that today is subject to discussion before us. Essentially, the West Constitutional Charter only finished the job that began in 1991, which is the abolition of Yugoslavia and the creation of more small states that will be subject to the contract and the interest of large forces. There is also the ambition of the political leaders of those countries. With the historic abolition of Yugoslavia, the Balkans have returned centuries ago. Fifthly, by adopting the Charter and the disappearance of the SRJ, Kosovo and Metohija's position in resolving its final status within Serbia are objectively weakened. I say this not only in the context of Yugoslavia's commitment and Resolution 1244, but also in the light of dual behaviour, i.e. the double arches applied by both the European Union and Solana, according to our country, in terms of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as in the context of the fact that its future status is bound to a transitional three-year period. I must remind the Assembly that the international community, in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, insists, seeks and lays down regulations that strengthen entities within Bosnia and Herzegovina and drowns Republika Srpska in the state structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the case of Kosovo and Metohija after three and a half years of UNMIK and KFOR's stay, continues to insist and ask our state to support the creation of institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, which the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia do, and nothing or almost nothing seems to achieve Resolution 1244 as the basic conditions for all future solutions. How many tomorrows will we be by who knows which way to hear from the same international community and what is known - forgive me, but the fate of Kosovo and Metohija is tied to Yugoslavia, it has been three and a half years, the practical situation in Kosovo and Metohija is such that it already exists as an independent state, and we respect the existing state. We Socialists believe that this is unacceptable and that the state should play a very active role in achieving Resolution 1244 as the basic conditions for discussing Kosovo and Metohija's future status.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25440	Do you want to use the next ten minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25441	Sixth, the Constitutional Charter legally and essentially abolishes Yugoslavia. Instead of a country that has had problems operating for the past four or five years because of the negative relationship between ruling DPS Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro, two special states have been created. With the Constitutional Charter, the country's problem with functioning has been resolved in the worst way, by abolishing the state, not by solving the problem. Both before and after the October 5th 2000 events, the DOS said that the issue of the future of the SRJ, the joint state of Serbia-Montenegro, was a democratic issue and that when Slobodan Milosevic and the Socialists in power did not solve the issue in themselves. Slobodan Milosevic is not among us, he was kidnapped and taken to The Hague by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The Socialists are not in the power of the Ninas federal, nor at the republican level. DOS had his hands out to solve the issue and he didn't solve it. The DOS's main partner in the joint state talks was the ruling DPS in Montenegro. The result of the talks is the suspension, the termination of Yugoslavia. Signatories of the Agreement, negotiators should tell us today who did not want Yugoslavia, who did not want a common state, loudly and clearly, without talking about the difficult past and the uncertain future. Whether it's DOS, Solana, representatives of Montenegro or all together. We need to know that for the sake of history, but also for our future. We believe that, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, DOS actively participated in the disappearance of Yugoslavia, both through representatives of the Commission and through the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also through the inaction of one of the signatories of the Agreement, the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Mr Kostunica. To remind me, the government of the Republic of Serbia has long been running a public campaign for independent Serbia through one of its ministers and his party. The government has made a statement twice or three times that Vlasine is not behind it, but that the government is not behind it is logical that the minister should not be in the government, or if he is in the government he should not be president of a party running a campaign for independent Serbia, or that party should not be a DOS member. Since none of the above has happened, things have remained as they are and it is clear that the concept of the government of the Republic of Serbia is an independent Serbia. This claim is also confirmed by the content of the document signed several months ago by the two governments on other issues opened during the talks, but also by agreement, at least according to Mr Vujanovic, Mr Djindjic and Mr Vujanovic's agreement on the abolition of the name Yugoslavia. I think it's time we heard from Mr. Djindjic today if that's true. The responsibility for abolishing Yugoslavia is also borne by the current president, Mr Kostunica, because of his signature in the Belgrade Agreement, but even more so because of his inaction. He was supposed to prevent the crackdown and disappearance of Yugoslavia and to be bound by an oath he made when he took office as president of Yugoslavia. Then he swore to protect Yugoslavia, its territorial integrity and respect for the Constitution, and he did nothing to make his words come true. On the contrary, everything happened both around Yugoslavia and around the Constitution - Yugoslavia has been abolished, and the Constitution has been overrun. Seven, the new state union of Serbia-Montenegro does not have the role of the common state. This assessment, of course, is not given on the basis of the number of bodies that the Constitutional Charter provides for the Community, but on the content of the tasks prescribed by the Charter. The Assembly, President, the Council of Ministers is so organised that they must express the authentic will of the Member States with mandatory parity, rotation, institutional mechanisms that prevent any decision-making without consent i.e. the political will of the other side. The fact is that decisions in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly are made on the condition that they are voted by the majority of the total number of MPs from each country, and this shows the true range of the joint assembly. Consensus has been introduced here to a small door, and it is known that such a decision-making rule blocks the work of the organs. The existence of Serbia-Montenegro as a single international law entity has been diminished, relativised by powers that Serbia-Montenegro as an independent state has gained in international relations. They can establish international relations with other countries and international organisations, conclude international agreements and agreements, establish representations, which, diplomatic, consular, commercial, is not said. They join international universal and regional organisations and the will of these international organisations, i.e. The interests of the great forces will be something to decide on their final entry into those organisations. It is unknown who creates the foreign policy of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, but knows its goal, including in these European structures and harmonising practices and regulations with European international standards, which speaks of one-sidedness and foreign policy. Other countries, for us very important, are not mentioned at all. The Constitutional Charter provides for the introduction of parity on a rotational basis in representation in international organisations, which gives the possibility of two countries to interfere in the competence of the state community. On the other hand, the constant rotation of state representatives points to one insecureness of the new state community in international relations, as it will not matter how a job is done, who does the job, but from which Member States. The greatest void of the Constitutional Charter, the biggest mistake lies in the area of the economy. The Charter provides for two separate economic systems and their harmonisation in accordance with the principles and standards of the European Union. Separate economic systems have different national currencies, special central banks, their own customs areas and revenues, their own fiscal systems. In this case, the European Union accepts a solution that has long been abolished and thus admits in fact that the future Serbia-Montenegro is not a single market, not a single state. None of the two ministers who have anything to do with the economy will be in a position to pass laws in their own area. There is no macroeconomic policy of Serbia-Montenegro, not to mention other unscheduled provisions, such as the free movement of capital, which, under the conditions of the existence of different national currencies and financial markets, cannot be completely. Commanding the military shows all the divorce and ineffectiveness of the state union solution contained in the Charter. The military's top command is in charge of the Supreme Council, which consists of the president of Serbia-Montenegro's future and the president of the Member States. They decide by consensus. The Supreme Council, i.e. These three representatives make up a collective commander, a model that was previously known and that went into history as inefficient. The military's handling is paradoxical again. Instead of the president of Serbia-Montenegro, therefore the nominal head of state, was given to the defence minister, which is a constitutionally-legal nonsensus. The Council of Ministers, as a set of five ministers -- for foreign affairs, defence, economic relations with abroad, internal economic relations, human and minority rights, represents the government of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, a government that does not rule, a community that is not. Ministers in their ministry do not determine nor lead politics. They coordinate the work of the relevant ministries of the Member States. Five of them, defence ministers and foreign affairs, rotate after two years. There are other solutions that demonstrate the absolute limitations of this Charter and that it is all but the charter of the state union, or the charter of the common state. Eight, for MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, in addition to the Constitutional Charter, the provision of an accompanying constitutional law that makes it impossible to replace a member of parliament who will vote or act against the decisions and positions of a political party with whom the lists are elected. If the citizen votes for one political party, then they also logically vote for the party's policy. It is logical that the party can replace one of the MPs on its list, who for the sake of property and other benefits of the vote or performs the opposite programme and party policy. If the MP was acceptable to be on the party list, then he must respect the party's policy, programme and decisions. If he does not, then he should not be in parliament either as a party MP, nor as an independent individual, because he has not been elected as such. This solution has nothing to do with the need for the stability of institutions, with democracy, with neither right nor with justice. It has to do with the expected purchase of MPs' votes by crossing from one camp to another, making it impossible to change or replace MPs in advance. This solution also has to do with the announced DOS through the press, the distribution of MPs' seats in Serbia-Montenegro's assembly. The Socialist Party of Serbia has not yet returned five mandates belonging to it under Article 88. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and which are unlawfully decided by the DOS and by the President of the National Assembly to the excluded members of the SPS who have established a new political party. The DOS is few that these MPs are supporting him in the assembly, already will, or even better so, to provide them with a seat in the Serbia-Montenegro parliament as a reward. Thus, a party that did not participate in the December 2000 elections would have representatives in the future parliament of the state union through the will of the DOS. Apparently, what a community, such as the MPs. As a measure for the allocation of mandates, i.e. The number of DOS MPs did not take the results of the September 2000 federal elections, which would be logical and what we stand for, as the current Federal Assembly is working on, but rather taking results from December. But that's a little bit, too, so we're creating phantom parliamentary groups and sharing mandates. Finally, honourable fellow MPs, I repeat once again that the SPS MPs will not vote in favour of the Constitutional Charter and the accompanying laws because they are being abolished and the SR of Yugoslavia disappears and essentially create two independent states, Serbia-Montenegro. The SPS MPs will not vote in favour of the Constitutional Charter and follow the law not only because of what these documents contain, but also because of the content they do not have, which one normal, functional, effective state union should have, such as a single foreign policy, defence, the market, common coin, customs and tax system and other solutions that the Socialists advocate in the interests of the common state and better life of the citizens of Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25442	The word has a folk MP Vojislav Seselj, then Branislav Ivkovic, Dejan Mihajlov and Predrag Stojanovic. In that order, the heads of the parliamentary groups applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the National Assembly of Serbia held a debate last April about what happened. We have warned the entire Serbian public that it is a matter of abolishing the federal state. Unfortunately, our predictions came true for those who were possibly deluded in April last year, now realized what was going on, and even the signatories of the so-called. Belgrade's agreement, or the initial basis. You saw the statements of Miroljub Labus, you saw the statements of Vojislav Kostunica. It seems now that it is too late to repent of an act that was deeply against the Constitution and opposed to national interests. The SR Yugoslavia has been abolished by the basics and all of your behaviors, the behaviour after that act, says that it has indeed been abolished, that its constitution no longer exists. We're, in fact, in a situation where we've been destroyed by a federal state and now there's no chance of its restoration, of its restoration. When did the destruction of the federal state begin? Already anti-constitutional actions of Djukanovic's regime in Montenegro dating back to 1997 or 1998. However, although certain responsibilities in part of the territory have been kidnapped by the state, it has functioned as a whole. The main blow to the state is Kostunica's decision of October 2000 to send Goran Svilanovic, without any constitutional authority, taking over the federal government's jurisdiction to request the admission of the SR of Yugoslavia to the United Nations as a newly formed state. The act interrupted the international legal continuity of the Yugoslav state that inherited the Yugoslav state from the Serbian international and legal continuity in 1918. Two hundred years of Serbian statehood and constitutionality have been thrown under the feet of that arbitrary act, which, in fact, no one in our public at that time had thought seriously. The SR Yugoslavia was a member of the United Nations before October 2000, the truth in a way contrary to the Charter of the United Nations; its membership in the General Assembly was suspended, its representative was violently prevented from participating in the work of the General Assembly. But membership didn't stop. As evidence, I state the fact that until October 2000, the flag of the SR Yugoslavia, or the flag of even the previous SFRY, whose legal successor under the Constitution was SR Yugoslavia, was vioring in front of the headquarters of the United Nations. There is an interruption of international and legal continuity. Turns out, only in October 2000 did we form a new federal state. The internal legal continuity was interrupted, so-called Baseline in April 2002. Why was that done? Someone in this country is deceived that the European Union and America sincerely want to preserve Serbia-Montenegro's common state. That's not true. Those who bombed us do not want the survival of the Serbian state, they want its destruction. It's a logical conclusion that's being drawn from their actions. And at the time the previous SFRY emissaries of the then European Community and the US emissaries claimed they were pushing for the preservation of the SFRY. They verbally advocated preservation, secretly worked at breaking and were very successful at it. The European Union and America want an independent Montenegro. That's obvious now. They helped Djukanovic to stay in power and succeed in his intention, because he did not have the brains and intelligence to do so in an adequate manner, without major internal fractures and earthquakes, to carry it out. Here, Djindjic is now helping him with his heart, calculating that he will have absolute power in his hands as easily as possible. If the federal state disappears, it is an absolute master in Serbia until the first elections, and on its own initiative it will try never to see parliamentary elections again. It's the subject of some other debate. What the West wants now. The West wants to create a legal basis for Montenegro to walk nicely from this so-called. a state community without any internal fractures. Djukanovic called a referendum, threatened with the threat of civil war. He shouldn't have gone to the referendum, that's clear. His referendum wouldn't have worked if the opposition boycotted him. It is clear after these failed presidential elections Therefore, the Vatican will be spoken of and you lovers of the Vatican will have something to hear, like Novakovic, of what he voted from Thessaloniki. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Milka Marinkovic pitches about Iraq. I'm traveling to Iraq soon, Milka, and I'll write to you, don't worry. May I continue, Milka? What is the goal, next to independence of Montenegro. The Western goal is to create a timely legal basis for Kosovo's exit from Serbia, as United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 speaks only of Kosovo as an integral part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Not whoever wrote that resolution to interpret her content as we wish. He will realise there is no SR Yugoslavia. You can write a list of your wishes now in the charter, so if Montenegro exits the state union, Kosovo will remain in the membership of Serbia. That's your wish. Your wish has nothing to do with Resolution 1244. The script is now obvious. First, Serbia-Montenegro will redefine its relations with each other by destroying the federal state, so when there is no federal state, then an additional legal basis will be created for Kosovo and Metohija's future independence. How? As soon as this is declared and adopted, as soon as it functions for you, apparently this so-called. The state union follows new pressure from the West to define Kosovo and Metohija as third member states. It's going to be an ultimatum. They'll tell you, they'll let you know that Resolution 1244 was only for SRJ. Is there no RJ? There isn't. No Federation? There isn't. Redefine Serbia-Montenegro's relations? Redefine. Here's your third member now. I guess you're better off with Kosovo and Metohija being your third member state than getting full independence. That'll be an argument. None of the serious people here will dare to say it, so it's better to have full independence than to impose them on us in that capacity. No one will be allowed to say that through their mouths. So, what's gonna happen? You who are in power, if you are still in power at that moment, you will accept Kosovo and Metohija, called Kosovo as the third member state of the so-called so-called. The state community. As soon as Kosovo first gets an attribute of the state, any state, an unfinished state, and what Djindjic used to say about that former Yugoslavia or the dependent state or half state, etc., it doesn't matter, at one point there are conditions and they are said to be unable to function together and better to differ. That problem will make Montenegro itself. She will simply say, we wanted a state union with Serbia, while Kosovo was an integral part of Serbia. Now that Kosovo is a third Member State, we do not want to live in such a community, let Serbia and Kosovo remain in the state community. Is that where they're going to try to hook up with the Vojvodina, and is that how they're going to try to hook up the Shumadi, because someone from your coalition is already in favour of the Shumadi as an autonomous province? You have such people in your ruling coalition. Your problem now stands as a problem for the entire Serbian people and for the Serbian statehood. That's why we have to at least alarm the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25444	Will you use the next ten minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25445	Yeah, I'll continue for the next ten minutes. I have no way to distract you from voting in an illegal way of what you started. You have picked up and kidnapped the mandates of some political parties, you have declared nine people as MPs here, although they are not on any basis MPs, etc. You're also able to bring in the dactylographs, and the waiters and security from the hallways, etc., so that you can gather 126 hands that will be raised or 126 fingers that will press the key here. If Novakovic could vote from Thessaloniki, why don't someone from the buffet, why don't someone from the boiler room, why don't someone from the dactyloboire etc. on the same basis. Ladies and gentlemen, I said, the starting grounds of April 2000 destroyed the federal state. You bring the Constitutional Charter today and say in the preamble to which legal acts, previous legal acts, are called. If we were to bring a new constitution, we would seek the preamble to express ourselves in a solemn way, to swear ourselves to independence, equality, civil rights, historical fluids, etc. The communists once swore to the liquids of their revolution. It's a solemn form of charter. The purely legal form of the charter that you have applied calls for some legal basis. Here, in happier circumstances, the legal basis would be: starting with members of that and that previous constitution, the Federal Assembly, together with the National Assembly, makes a decision to declare a new constitution. If you've changed your name to the Constitutional Charter, I'll talk about it in the afternoon about those 27 minutes, so I won't be long now. However, here you are referring to the basics. You say, starting with the starting grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's 14 March relations, and you don't mention a formal federal constitution. To you, the basics are some extremities, something that's above the constitution. Who brought these basics? Signed by Djok, Mika, Pera, Djura, Steve and Laza; Laza probably was. The basics and, of course, everything seasoned with Solana, because it's not supposed to be unsalted. Signed by Kostunica, Djindjic, Labus, Djukanovic and who else was there? Was there any other size political here? There was no Milan Milutinovic, it didn't seem to me, did it, Djindjic? And Solana. They signed the abolishing of the SRJ, signed the abolition of the federal constitution. Now that they've signed, after it's been voted by a simple majority, and many of your propaganda people who announced that we're not even coming to the Assembly today, I guess that's what you wanted, and we didn't say it anywhere, they say to the simple majority. They don't know what a simple majority is when they mix it with an absolute majority. You voted simply for these basics, both in the republican congregations and in the Federal. Perhaps if you were counting yourself, collecting and voting from Thessaloniki, etc., and bringing from the hallway, you would have gathered the absolute majority, but you never mentioned the qualified form of the majority, ever. Now, the best thing will be when the border is Karlobag - Ogulin - Karlovac - Virovitica, but we'll wait a little longer for that, don't worry about anything, we're talking about other questions now. In that rage and in that hatred that you have no counterarguments, you can now try to be witty. You're not funny at all. It's a tragic situation. I'd love to laugh, but I don't feel like laughing, for the first time in 12 years of active party policy. For the first time, I don't really feel like laughing. What's going on here? You are abolishing the federal state, abolishing the federal constitution by an anti-constitutional act. This anti-constitutional act is subject to criminal responsibility. Now you bring as a new constitution. You call it the Constitutional Charter, it doesn't matter, you've thought of that Constitutional Charter as a basic law. Why is the basic law, if you have already abolished the federal constitution, not in line with Serbia's republican constitution. You have stated here that within six months and that is your declarative programme character, which should not stand in the constitution, you will bring Serbia's republican constitution into line with what is called the so-called "Republic Constitution". Constitutional Command. You are thus already defining the content of the future constitution of Serbia or of the amendments to which you will change that constitution. So, this is a new kind of continuum act, such as the initial foundations of the Belgrade Agreement, an ex ante act in relation to the constitutional charter. That's how you already wrote here that the constitutional charter is your extremity in relation to the future constitution of Serbia. You would have to bring the extra act, if Serbia's constitution was brought by a two-thirds majority and referendum, to bring the four-fifth majority, to be even more qualified than the one required for the republican constitution or perhaps a double referendum. You lower the criteria that already exist for constitutional changes at Serbia's level. You oblige all those who write the text of the future constitution to stick to this constitutional charter. And it was adopted only by an absolute and suspicious majority, based on kidnapped parliamentary mandates, based on people brought in who are not MPs and so on. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very easy to destroy your country. This is one form of euthanasia and so on. It's hard to keep. And if we can't save it, then we won't be involved in any destruction. If we can't help keeping it together, then at least we can keep our mouths shut and not contribute to the destruction. You know, it's a well-known situation from concentration camps -- all the people who came to Auschwitz, for example, knew in advance that no one would come out alive, but most of these people were the ones who, if they couldn't resist, were waiting for their turn to be liquidated. There was always one percent of those who, even though they knew that they would eventually get hurt, were willing to serve the camp authorities, those who killed them, etc., even carried out their compatriots, their whisperers in the crematorium, at the losins, etc. So there is something in the character of a man that makes him a man in the right sense of the word: a steadfast, sacrificed, determined to preserve pride and dignity. In some people, there is a will to adapt to the occupation, to the enemy, at any cost, even though they know that nothing good will come out of it. You know, there are people who are fighting the occupiers, and there are men and women who serve him, so some of them are prostitutes, so some of them serve them by belonging to the quincessal apparatus, so someone who's going to do this sort of thing. There are different human characters. This is one of the breaking moments in every man's life, individual and whole nation where it is necessary to prove humanity, pride, dignity and courage to say no to what destroys the state. This is my message especially to the DSS. You've finally figured out what the Constitutional Charter is. I've been listening to your president's speech. He understood everything and repented, which I am truly convinced of. I'm convinced he didn't want to destroy the federal government. It may turn out to be something different, but one thing is what a man wanted to do and another what he did. It's one thing he wanted to produce with his own procedure, and the other thing is what he really produced. What was produced by this procedure is extremely negative. There's still a chance to stop. That chance is to vote resolutely against the so-called. Constitutional charters, so if anyone's going to impose on us tanks, let them impose it. I know we can't fight this force in the present conditions, but we shouldn't serve it. If we cannot preserve Montenegro as part of the common state, then do not help the Montenegrin regime to secede Montenegro, but let it face its own citizens and see how it will do. Why should we from Belgrade help him with that? If we may not be able to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, then at least not to help Serbian enemies kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, and you have repeatedly helped them. You called on Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija to go to both the province and local elections, although the conditions of UN Security Council Resolution 1244, which meant the return of all exiled people and the return of a limited squad of our military and police, to a thousand soldiers. Until at least those two conditions were met, you should not have called on the Kosovo-Methochian Serbs to go to the occupation elections. You did it. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) You have thus contributed to the preparations for Kosovo and Metohija to definitely kidnap Serbia and the Serbian people. We're not going to vote for this, but we're going to tell you everything we think and we're going to talk in every place while we have breath.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25446	The word is by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the National Socialists Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, it is certain that the MPs of this assembly are today perhaps at the most significant moment since the beginning of their term of office. It is also certain that the simplest and easiest thing to say is what will not be said. It's harder, and it's much harder, to come up with and say what you want. The most difficult and difficult thing is that it wants to define how what it wants to be achieved and lead to the end. Surely this is the moment when we must all rise above our narrow party and party interests, above daily politics and politics, and indeed, perhaps more than ever, think about the citizens of Serbia, whose name each of us, i.e. speaks here on behalf of the bar part of those citizens. It is certain that receptive words are when opposed to many events today, and also to the Constitutional Charter, especially those left without a job, especially those sold to businesses. Every one of us who speaks here must also think about what and how and what is an alternative to what is offered. I'm going to try and talk here about what the people's socialists want, about how we see it is, the fact that it is, and how we think we should move on. In terms of what is wanted, we people's socialists advocate the preservation of the common state. Perhaps more than others I have the right to speak, because I have worked on a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia and with my colleague, Minister of Space and Urbanism of Montenegro, working to coordinate the spatial plans of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. The spacious plans of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro are fully compatible and make up a single spatial plan of a territory. It is clear from work on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia that the common state of Serbia-Montenegro is an optimal solution for all citizens of Serbia, because it is about countries that are completely compatible with resource potential, and rationality in infrastructure development is far higher when it comes to joint planning and construction. To talk about the importance of going into the world of Serbia through the port of Bar is groundless, as it is without substance to talk about the importance of Montenegro's exit to Europe through the Danube Development Belt. Our task in the coming period is to strengthen this awareness of the importance of the preservation of the common state both with the citizens of Serbia and with the citizens of Montenegro, to combat separatism and secessionism and to strengthen the state further. It is certain that every qualified and smart man understands absolutely and realizes that it must be the goal of a country with a single coin, with a single customs, a country that is economically, in a global sense, uniquely functioning. What's the actual state? The fact that we have a state that isn't. The fact is, we have papers that talk about a strong state, and it's not there. The fact is, in fact, that the National Bank of Yugoslavia is the National Bank of Serbia. We'll talk about the governor, the governor's actions, and how he contributed to the poor economic situation, the business policy he led to at the NBJ. The fact is, in fact, we have a border between Serbia and Montenegro. The fact is, we don't have a common state. It is true that Mr Kostunica spoke of the issue of Yugoslavia's survival as a matter of democracy. He won democracy and signed the Belgrade Agreement with Mr Labus and Mr Djindjic. No one was asked as Serbian citizens when they signed it. However, we came here as far as we came. We have the Constitutional Charter. What's the alternative to the Constitutional Charter, I'm asking you and myself. What are we gonna do if we don't adopt the Constitutional Charter? Do the heroes who are threatening a referendum on Serbia's secession have a certain solution to Serbia's recognition? They don't. Do those who object here against all the solutions we are rebelling against, and we National Socialists, against two coins, against two customs unions, have we any solutions and alternative? We don't. That's what this is about. There is much mention of Kosovo and Metohija here, but none of those who mentioned Kosovo for this speaker and Metohija did not read the preamble of the Constitutional Charter. The preamble to the constitutional charter reads: "Departing from the equality of the two Member States, the countries of Montenegro and the state of Serbia, which includes the AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija... "The Preamble of the Constitutional Charter is an integral part of the Constitutional Charter. That's what every one of us has to think about. For the first time in 12 years, we are in a position for Europe to accept that they are an integral part of Serbia's autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina. It is of great importance to this people and to this country who are tired of being overly national and lacking social. This is a situation where we can also discuss, in fact, the verification (and that is one alternative) of the Constitutional Charter of the Council of Europe and the accession of Serbia-Montenegro to the Council of Europe, we have the verification of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija and the AP Vojvodina within Serbia. Maybe only after that can we talk about something else, maybe after that we can talk about complete independence, but I repeat, from the point of view of the profession there is no alternative. The common state of Serbia-Montenegro is an optimal solution for every citizen of Serbia and for every citizen of Montenegro, a multiple rational solution, of multiple importance from the point of view of national and state interest, and, if you will, the old coin that we are together is stronger. As for the position of Serbia-Montenegro, I ask - what is the alternative to the Constitutional Charter, I ask you and myself - what if the Constitutional Charter is not adopted? There's been a lot of mention here of Resolution 1244. The truth is, Resolution 1244 defines Kosovo and Metohija as part of Yugoslavia, not as part of Serbia. Could it be that, in the event of a failure to adopt a constitutional charter, failure to provide support for Serbia as an independent state, would there be a breakdown? Probably, he'd probably even be pushed on the side. What would this Serbia fall apart to -- it would fall apart on Montenegro and Kosovo and Metohija, perhaps even Sandzak, perhaps on Vojvodina. What's the alternative to that? Today we find ourselves, reluctantly, in the position that the alternative is the Constitutional Charter. The Constitutional Charter decidedly says the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, the state of Montenegro and the state of Serbia, within which the AP is Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. To me, as a Serb and a Serbian citizen, it has one great value, as we have no value of having two coins, that we have two customs unions. So, we, the people's socialists, want a strong and strong common state of Serbia-Montenegro, with autonomous provinces of Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina. We want decentralised Serbia, with strong local self-government. We don't want regionalization, we don't want tarabs in our country. Taraba's enough. In terms of national history, this Serbia did have Karadjordje, but also had Milos Obrenovic. The result of the work of Karajordja is known, it lasted seven years. The result of Milos Obrenovic's work as well; many brains, many wills, many negotiating patience, many proportions, and a struggle in every situation for the interests of its citizens, not for the interests of their parties. All those who speak for this speaker, I call, when they say they don't want something, to come up with something and say what they want, and what they want to say clearly -- how do they think they're going to do it all the way? Because, you know, Serbian citizens are looking at this, Serbian citizens are being beaten and beaten and extreme, Serbian citizens want proposals, a concrete perspective. If it takes a year, two, and three, but they know that one can go one way. Here we must work on a modern constitutional concept, the Constitution of Serbia, developed, decentralised, with strong local self-government, with a local self-government that owns its city building land, and thus a potential co-investor, with a local self-government that can tomorrow be a potential partner for entering foreign capital and employs its citizens and thus solves not only this problem, but also by increasing production to strengthen and contribute to the budget of local self-government. Therefore, this constitutional charter was unknown to any of us MPs in March last year. Without us, someone decided to sign an agreement with Solana, or with the European Union, to create a Belgrade agreement as the basis. It is symptomatic that some of those who have signed, now think differently. Personally, I think they think differently from purely political ambitions and don't think about the interest of citizens, whose name they plead to speak. What remains open here is - how, by way of creating Serbia-Montenegro as a country with one coin, Serbia and Montenegro with common development plans for infrastructure development, in the development of economy, Serbia-Montenegro with one customs quota and tariff, and as part of the European Union? Thinking here and saying, we all have to take care of that 87% of Serbian citizens said -- we want to join European integration. The negation of that fact (I think everyone here should think when they speak) is also the political death of those who speak differently. We here, for this speaker, when we speak, have to rise above the daily political interests based on trouble and mood, from the Borski base, and beyond, and think about what will happen tomorrow to our children and to all the children of this Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25448	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25449	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, today when we are discussing the Constitutional Charter, we are discussing in the Assembly which has violated legitimacy, in the Assembly where 10% of MPs have no legitimacy, that is, this assembly has 10% of MPs who may not be sitting there. Whether injustice can give birth to justice or if injustice can bring about justice and whether illegality can produce legitimacy - it cannot and will not. This assembly must receive a decision from the Administrative Board by the end of this debate, it must obtain supporting means to determine that those MPs who have resigned have not ceased their mandate on the basis of their personal will. Let's see what kind of delusion they were in, if they were, when they resigned, and that only after that decision did we make the decision. Because every decision and every state, and this constitutional charter is the basis of every state, which is formed in an illegal congregation, cannot have full legitimacy. And here, I believe, we all advocate a state that, although it may not be supported by all the MPs in this assembly, all MPs will respect and not dispute its legitimacy, because it is created by an illegal assembly. Because we know how countries that are born into illegality and injustice end up. The Democratic Party of Serbia has always expressed its commitment, while the opposition, since it was formed as a party in 1993, has made an agreement with the People's Party of Montenegro on a future common state, a reorganised but common state of Serbia-Montenegro. There are more things that bind us, than those that separate us, and we have always thought that the best solution for Serbia-Montenegro is in one country, in a state that will not be established, as it was in the Frog Constitution, in three days, as the fruit of political bargaining between Milo Djukanovic and Momar Bulatovic, on the one hand, and Slobodan Milosevic, on the other. We felt that the state must be a sincere commitment to the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. With such intentions, the DSS approached the creation and construction of the new state union of Serbia-Montenegro after October 5th. I remind you that these were some of the key things of the presidential programme of Dr Vojislav Kostunica in these elections; the citizens supported it, and we believe that it is the legitimacy that is needed both for this assembly and for the people who advocate for the common state, that it is this common state that they are creating. We wanted and felt that the Belgrade Agreement was finally a point in the process of disintegration in this part of our former Yugoslavia, that the Belgrade Agreement was the basis for Kosovo to be part of Serbia in accordance with Resolution 1244, not Yugoslavia, through a wise and responsible process, not a quick and arrogant process, the Kosovo return process of Serbia's full territorial integrity. We also felt that the Belgrade Agreement was a guarantee for our faster integration into European flows, primarily in the Council of Europe, and of course, as one of the main objectives of the future country's foreign policy, in the European Union. With much optimism, members of the DSS Constitutional Commission joined the commission. But why has this work lasted so long, why has the elections, which in Montenegro, which, in Serbia, slowed the work of the Constitutional Commission, why has Milo Djukanovic, with a blessing from Serbia, asked to postpone his work on the constitutional charter for two months and delay our admission to the Council of Europe in September? Why has someone always blessed Mil Djukanovic from Belgrade and been a better partner to Milo Djukanovic than the citizens of Serbia who chose him? Why did the governments of Serbia-Montenegro, during the work of the Constitutional Commission, negotiate parallelly to the harm of Serbia-Montenegro's state union, to the benefit of Serbian citizens? Why they made it impossible for the Constitutional Commission to work and why, past the Constitutional Commission, the finance ministers Djelic and Ivanisevic were negotiating a number of times, why the Constitutional Commission repeatedly criticised the government of Serbia-Montenegro for its views, conclusions and statements. To whom the Constitutional Charter was intended not to be passed, i.e. the objective of the Constitutional Charter being not the basis of the future common state, and the law implementing the constitutional Charter even more, but to be the introduction to the secession of Serbia-Montenegro; of course, the DSS was not the goal, nor has it ever acted. Why would Serbia go out to meet DPS and Milo Djukanovic before Serbian citizens? Why were many solutions adopted, especially in the law, which are at the expense of Serbian citizens, as well as the damage to the budget, or finance? Why is the common market prescribed and we have two separate customs systems? Why would customs be established at the border of Serbia-Montenegro? How can you have two currencies, have a common market and a smooth flow of goods, capital and people? Why did someone persistently support such an attitude? Why did the representatives of the Constitutional Commission of Serbia not have a unique position when it comes to the assets of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, i.e. the property of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro? Why is the issue of state union property of Serbia-Montenegro at the expense of Serbian citizens? Why does the property of an army now owned by the SRJ cease to be owned by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro? Why does ports, airports, barracks and all that the military uses from immovable buildings become property of Serbia-Montenegro and not state communities? Why will the citizens of Serbia invest their money in the military, in the real estates located in Montenegro and that it belongs to Montenegro? Why will the citizens of Serbia finance the state union with 95.5%, the citizens of Serbia who will finance the state union's army with 95.5%, invest in real estate, which is Montenegro's property. Why would they invest in ports, which is Montenegro's property? Why would they invest in airports, and they're Montenegro's property again? Why invest in a military airport when Milo Djukanovic and everyone has already announced that they will take it and build it from a civilian airport; why we will invest in a remounted ship office in the ports of Montenegro, the Montenegrin government will take them. Why should we allow the army of the state community to defend us and defend us against aggression to be a tenant in its own house, to go to a counter in some building land office in Podgorica, Bar, Tivt or anywhere else, and ask that the municipal government conclude with it a contract on the lease of certain premises? Will we allow the military institutions to be so humiliated as one of the fundamental connections between the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, one of the fundamental links between this existing Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, one of the most important links that bound us when they were torn or broken and paid for and when Montenegro has a special customs system? Will we allow it and will we allow Serbia's citizens to refinance a succession or contract of succession or an army of Montenegro through this kind of funding? I think it is responsibility for those who will vote in favour of the law, and it is an unbreakable part of the Constitutional Charter and precisely to see if they will protect Serbia's interests in this assembly or support Milo Djukanovic and Zoran Djindjic's political pact in this assembly. Will it speed up and speed up the separation of Serbia-Montenegro's state union by adopting this law, which is more of a succession act than an act on improving and improving and allowing the state union to function, will it do so? This will be seen in the case of voting on the law. Will those who advocate greater Serbia's rights, even for Serbia's independence, support the law and thus contribute to allowing the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to function as per the law and constitutional charter, but only as a prelude to separation, not merger; whether they will allow all of this to take place at Serbia's harm, that we will make a new army in Montenegro and everything else, and infrastructure, and that in three years they will go into agreement and in such a conflict, and that of our money, the money of all Serbian citizens. The DSS will not allow it, will not vote for the law in this assembly and expects all those who think they can and must do better, to do so. From this point on, I want to say -- if there were more agreement between the Constitutional Commission and the Serbian Parliament, the DPS position would not be so hard and they would not get through the law what they have now received. One example: when DPS and Milo Djukanovic say -- we won't accept this, no one from Serbia says -- we won't accept what you're proposing: some of them come from Serbia immediately and run to find something that is acceptable to Milo Djukanovic. Is this assembly and Serbia there to court Milo Djukanovic or to protect the interest of Serbian citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, it is our great historical responsibility that Serbia and the citizens of Serbia... (President: Are you using the next ten minutes? No, I'm done. So, Serbia and Serbian citizens have no right to failed projects and failed investments, we need a state that will function, not a state that will disappear on its own (and it will be in three years), which is exactly what we are offered by this law implementing the Constitutional Charter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25450	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25451	Just because of the public of Serbia, which perhaps, by dealing with some of its daily and real problems, there is no time to participate in these nightmares of political life in Serbia, to say something, or how all this has happened, where we are now and what is whose historical and other responsibility. I am surprised not to say a more difficult word, by the fact that the party representative of the Yugoslav President has not said a single positive sentence on the Charter. He spoke three quarters of his time against the law on its implementation, meaning against the wheels that should drive the car, saying that of course there might be something positive in that car. Basically, he defends Serbia's interests from others who have compromised Serbia's interests. Since the question was asked how this Charter came into play, and there are many who today deny it, I will say once again, and I said six months ago, so at 12 o'clock in the middle of the night Mr. Solana called me there in what is already called the Central Committee or the Federal Executive Council, the Presidential Building, met me in the hallway and told me that Mr. Djukanovic and Mr. Kostunica agreed on the text of the Charter, on the text of the Belgrade Agreement and on the concept of the common state. That text I first saw in my life when he brought it to me, I said -- if they agreed, I guess that's one thing that rests on certain arguments, on a certain sense of responsibility, I'm aware that the last moment for any deal, and that in this situation is getting better than the agony itself. Anything else would be agony. He who now refers to history, Yugoslavia, in 1918, to Dusan's empire, leads us into agony. We today, by voting, behind which I stand, save what is lost, we lose nothing today. Those who claim to lose this today, they are telling the truth. I'd like to see what it's like to be saved, what it looks like to be the state they would have saved, and that state didn't exist before October 5th, but it existed on paper, as any stupid paper can be put on paper, or smart thing, or genius thing; paper is one thing, and life is another. Yugoslavia was created in 1918 on the basis of one great energy, a great vision, a major political project that failed, not in 1990, not in 1999, not in 2000, but in 1941, when one part of that people set out to kill another part of that people and Serbs were the main victims of the project called - Yugoslavia. Only by freezing that story in 1945 in communism was the issue of the state's meaning delayed. When the one holding the freezer died, it melted, it started to smell again, and that's the history of that country. The one who brings us back today at that time is against the future of this country. So, what we want... Mr. Martian, please, when you speak I'll listen to you. I hope you've learned that at home, if you haven't. So it is that state founder of the United Nations, it is she has had her moments of light, but life is something else, not just founding rights. Where is this Yugoslavia today? One of the most underdeveloped countries in the modern world. It can be measured with African states. To this end, it was brought by those who fought for its interests: 75% of the total technology in our economy has been amortised, written off; 75% of our roads have been amortised; 48% of the people in this country work in companies that work daily with losses; 280,000 people work in companies that have fulfilled the legal basis to go bankrupt. It's the real state of this country and the question of where it belongs today in the United Nations. At the bottom. Who brought it to the bottom? Maybe we, maybe this assembly? No, I don't. What's our goal now? Let's get out of the fog, look into life and say, people, give the elemental instruments to run a country that's in a deep sink, to gradually get out of it. This is a small instrument. Those who say right now - he's not enough, so much better to be someone better. I'm saying great, where's the better one? Those who say, "We are going to build it, so we changed our minds, because it is much better to go to demagogue and then promise the people of the mountains and valleys." That's even more irresponsible. If you're not up for something going on, gentlemen of the DSS, then be against the vote at all. We can't -- we will, but if it didn't, we would, but we wouldn't. Tell me, we're not going to go along with Mr. Seselj, who you already agreed not to vote that law in the Federal Assembly and stop life. Be honest, brave, and stop life in this country, so that everyone can see who you are and what you are. Don't sell fog here. Enough of this people's fog after 50 years. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, why I'm upset. Because it's so easy to say from this pay phone that it's being put into the air, into the people, so easy to decide hundreds of thousands of people, so it's easy to talk about the states, the foundings, the ideologys, the principles, while the people in this country have nothing to live on, as a consequence of that ease of making promises. For each day's delay - that you couldn't because you were tired of coming to the constitutional committee, so we have this today, 15 days later than we'd have - cost this country the right to carry 10,000 tons of juniper meat to the European Union and some heat. This man, who produced it, pays it by not being able to place his product on a good market. Because you were tired of staying on the constitutional committee at night. Who gives you the right to be tired in the name of this people? If you're tired, go get some sleep. So this might pass, it might not pass, but I'd like the bet to be known. Here the stakes are not petty political manipulations, the question here is whether this country will preserve its international credibility, as a country where priority is known, which knows what is being decided, not as a country of market, where something new is offered every day and every day moves again. In this country, there must be a final order, and those who don't want order, let them say it -- we don't want order, we want the ringishipil, every day it spins, come in -- get out of that ringishipil, but then it's not the state. The worst is when those who are destroying the state appear here as protectors of the state. The state defends itself by voting for those things that are real and that are possible. By exposing his reserves, his criticisms, but also by offering an alternative. If this isn't voted, what will be voted upon? Nothing. You'll sleep for another year, ten more years, another hundred years, like a rose thorn waiting for her prince to wake her up. fairy tales have passed, this is a real life and take responsibility for yourself as real politicians in a real country or, brother, get off the political scene, so go and sleep in some fairy tale.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25452	Right on the line, MP Dejan Mihajlov, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25453	I still haven't heard the answer to what's going to happen to the army's assets, who's going to finance the army. Out of great anxiety, from the great fog that we heard and which is scattered here, it will all end again at the expense of the citizens of Serbia. I don't see that the nervousness, which is here, cares about the citizens of Serbia. I think it's more of a concern for my personal authority and that's why someone's so nervous around here, because he knows that everything that's going on, everything that's agreed with Milo Djukanovic about customs, about everything else, is going down. And that's why that anxiety is out here, so don't worry about the citizens, because if the public's concern were different, the Charter and the law would be made. Here's the concern of personal interests. This is cowardice and selfishness. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25454	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25455	To be clear, Mr. Kostunica has agreed with Milo Djukanovic, not me. So, the authors of the Belgrade Agreement. I began to negotiate with Milo Djukanovic after the signing of the Belgrade Agreement, when the matter was over. Before that, we didn't talk at all about how we differed over the issue of the common state since 1999-2000. We interrupted our relationship until the moment we became partners again, we were connected by Mr. Kostunica. All that has been defined in the Belgrade Agreement has been translated into the Charter. If you wanted more states, why didn't you put more states in the Belgrade Agreement? What this commission has done is maximum what it could do based on the several elements given in the Belgrade Agreement. You can't build a ten-story house if you have three bricks. You can make a little Zemunica. You gave three bricks to the Commission, she did something out of those three bricks, and that's better than nothing. I deeply believe that this country is possible and that it is currently the maximum that we can achieve as a people. The alternative is the crisis in Montenegro, the alternative is to delay a solution between Serbia and Montenegro, the alternative is -- all together on a blind track, the alternative -- this people for another five years, another ten years on the donkey bench. Who can take it as a responsibility? I didn't, and that's why six months ago, and today I took the obligation to defend one thing, whose weaknesses I'm aware of, unlike the cowards who sign, so they ran off into a mouse hole and say, we didn't know, we didn't know what we were signing. I defend what they signed, because I believe it's a good solution. Not from demagogy. It would be much simpler for me, those stories -- they want power. Wouldn't it be simpler to separate Serbia and to be in Serbia, than to have some more structure up there? That's bullshit. The first was a theory -- Djindjic agreed with Djukanovic to separate the two states so that everyone would have power in their country. Then they agreed not to split up to have power. I don't know, whatever it is, somebody made another deal. Those conspiracy theories and those paranoias, leave it for psychiatry. This is about looking for the least healthy common denominator, to create one structure that can last. None of us are to blame for that common denominator being so small. It would be much better if it were bigger, it would be much better if we were Switzerland, so let's say, here, living there one, living there the other, the third, all the Swiss people calling and everyone saying - I'm wearing a Swiss flag, I speak Italian, I speak German, I speak French, I wear a Swiss flag. Who in that state would say - I'm Yugoslav? Which one of us would you say is Yugoslav? How do you think there can be one Federation where no one considers themselves a citizen of that Federation but -- I'm a Serb, I'm a Montenegrin, and I live in Yugoslavia. Who in Montenegro would agree to a different relationship except for a key that is confederal. What are you talking about? Where are your allies for this federal state, you who are sorry, so we missed the chance, we could push a little bit more, make a federal state. Do you think Predrag Bulatovic would agree to something other than the key? I talked to him about it. Anything can be questioned, but it can't be the key. Can't "one man - one voice", it's unacceptable for Montenegrins. For those Montenegrins who are for the Federation. Then I said, no Federation, because two and two are four. That's not a theory. He said -- well, well, what he can do, but this is a condition. You can't "one man - one voice" because in Montenegro no one will accept it. It's a reality. Based on this reality, at least a common denominator is made that is not bad. It's very bad if one country starts already with the feeling that it's unwanted. If the political generation that is on stage today in Serbia-Montenegro and in the next 10 years wants to make it a decent state, it will be a decent state. If she doesn't want to, she won't be. There's plenty of room to make that country a decent thing. Be "yes" or "no," I think that's fair. At the very least, it's a political responsibility, so let each of you explain to your children and to your grandchildren what side he was on when it was decided on the fate of the state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25456	I thank the Prime Minister and set a break until 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.45.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue the debate on the text of the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, with the text of the law for its implementation, please check that we have a quorum for work. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the text of the Constitutional Charter and the law on its implementation. What might make this debate unusual is the fact that no amendment can be intervened on this text by MEPs or MPs. For this reason, I wonder why the Constitutional Commission, starting from that postulate, did not include in its composition any aesthetic or scyllistic, which the tatekst of the Constitutional Charter would stylefully "brush", for the simple reason that the subsequent intervention could not do so. I understand that this cannot be done because more than one entity participates in its adoption. The coordination fee would be really difficult, and for that reason I have an understanding of such a decision. Although I admit that my knowledge of constitutional and legal matter is quite modest, I again give myself the right to, knowing about the constitutionality of Serbs, the preamble of constitutional text is usually written in a solemn language, a solemn tone. Of course, without that empty rhetoric and pathetic. This solemn tone simply shows that there is a people's will to form a certain state community. That, truth be told, the people's will is not even established. This country is made out of necessity. This common state or future state union will come about through the availability of an international factor. We can also determine such a fact and not what we love but what we are forced to do. When I was talking about style, let's say in the preamble, the definition of "who" appears at a close distance, and that pretty much disrupts that way of interpreting. That's pretty big and stylish. For that reason, the one who wrote the Charter simply ignored that fact. That's why the general impression is that the preamble is written in the dry language of the state bureaucrat, and that, once again, is not good. When I said that the future state union did not come from the people's will, then I primarily had in mind... Madam President, warn the MPs to listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25459	I ask the MPs to listen to Mr. Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25460	Indeed, if this assembly is to be serious, and I suppose it can, it should act in the following way: the text of the Constitutional Charter should be rejected, so as to examine the people's will. They're going to examine it with a simple referendum. Let the referendum determine whether Serbia or Montenegro, any of them if there is no future, are one or the other for the common state. If at least one of the Member States is found to be opposed, then let us stop writing the constitution. Why write a constitution for a state that has no future. Why write a constitution for a state that is not based on nature's will and on national sovereignty. If these countries, both Serbia-Montenegro, declared themselves independent at the referendum, then it would be so much easier for Serbia to join another goal that it simply missed. That goal is to write his own constitution. In this regard, it would be good to call elections for a constitutional assembly. That would really avoid the constitutional crisis we're in. The assembly has missed the historic chance that after the December elections and after the five-octobaric changes, it will declare itself a constitutional assembly and vote for a new constitution. Indeed, at this point, we have a constitution of a state that does not exist. One of the reasons reform changes fail is that they are not fueled by a good constitution. This constitution is simply a brakes for serious reforms. There is another variant: Montenegro is given a reasonable three-month deadline in which it would declare whether it wants a state, since at this point, I assume, it is only a factor of conflict and risk. When we talk about the Constitutional Charter, let me, by the way, have a little remark. In the head - the goals of the new state union, six goals are set out. In my humble judgment, there are only two. These are the creation of a market economy and integration into European structures, i.e. associations and the European Union, as the ultimate objective. All that is stated as the objectives of the state community is, in fact, just a means to reach these two basic objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, this text of the Constitutional Charter foresees at one point that the first composition of the future parliament of the common state will be elected indirectly and MPs are said to be chosen in proportion to the political participation of the parties. The law on the implementation of the Constitutional Charter is operating on such a matter, and it even gives deadlines. He says the matter will be done within 10 days of the constitutional declaration. Given that, I don't see why DOS was even discussing it when the law wasn't passed. It's simple, the law isn't on the agenda. That thing that was provided for by the Constitutional Charter and by law hasn't yet arrived to be current. This prejudication creates quite an evil blood in our political life and makes it very complicated to a good degree. Once again, the Constitutional Charter stems from the Final Foundations and the Belgrade Agreement. All that New Serbia has been saying about the starting points and the Belgrade Agreement is also valid for the constitutional charter. In fact, that text of the Belgrade Agreement is only being translated into a new text of the Constitutional Charter. It's even noticeable -- whenever the Constitutional Commission was in crisis and whenever she was in trouble, then the particulars they found were more confusing, it was more vague. That, in fact, made a compromise to bring about this text. I am indeed expressing my disagreement with the length of this text for the simple reason that the Belgrade Agreement has significantly shortened those deadlines, so we have this constitutional charter, that the deadlines were respected, could have been on the agenda half a year ago and more. (President: Mr. Cirkovic, do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) I'll finish with another sentence. Once again, I point out: Serbia-Montenegro's common state is a state-of-the-art goal and peoples in Serbia-Montenegro. Such a state must have a future, such a state must have a consistent constitution, which will not slow it down in its development. For this reason, as we have dealt with the initial foundations and the Belgrade Agreement, New Serbia will also refer to this text on the constitutional charter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25461	National MP Predrag Stojanovic, president of the DHSS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25462	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, the DHSS believes that the principle debate is still under way, and what you're about to hear as our position is for now, for the first 10 minutes, our position in principle. The DHSS is absolutely aware of the reality of this political moment and, of course, the fact that the votes of its parliamentary group will not be able to prevent the adoption of so-called. The constitutional charter of the undefined state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We want Serbia's citizens, especially at the moment, to remind us that we are the only party on the Serbian political scene for a year and a half to advocate the independence of the Serbian state, because only independent Serbia can sovereignly decide to join state alliances. Mr. Seselj, 400,000 people have fully confirmed that truth with their signatures. Others, in almost daily polls, confirm the correctness of our policy. Unfortunately, a proposal has recently been rejected under this roof to even discuss one of the basic rights of each Serbian citizen, the right to a referendum on his own state of Serbia. There cannot be rational reasons for such a thing, so we as a serious state-owned party are not going to deal with it today, but we will continue to insist on a referendum on independence. Serbia's state-law Corps suffers both from external and internal pressures to make the charter -- the basis of which is the famous "Belgrade misunderstanding", which the signatories today deny -- adopts by way of speed and speed, almost without debate, and the reason is, to God, an urgent admission to the Council of Europe. It's as if someone in Europe is now forcing the Czech Republic and Slovakia to reunite, or, say, Cyprus and Greece, and mostly Greeks live there, or that someone is asking Malta to become Britain's domination again to pass through the door of Europe. No, in our opinion, Europe is made and based on the self-determination of the people, and it is respected everywhere, except in our case. Here, the benevolent will be clear, it's not about emotions between us and the Montenegrins. It is about protecting the fundamental state interest, the right to state self-loathing and self-securacy. Montenegrins preserved it by a two-year-old anti-citation referendum and should congratulate them on that. We won't even talk about it here, not even discuss it. We prefer to please individuals from the world and a group of jurists among us, who have forgotten everything that has changed since October 2000 here, because it seems they still live at Broz in 1968. That is why the DHSS wants to continue and will continue its independent Serbia campaign in Europe. We will take the decision of the assembly majority, already hinted here, aware that we are about to have a fight to convince you, gentlemen of the MPs, to vote publicly for what most of you personally think, for independent Serbia. The people have already decided, what is heard daily on every corner, only for independent Serbia in an independent Europe, in a single Europe. It's the only way we can be of help to ourselves and our brothers, wherever they are. That is the only way we can be helpful to ourselves and others, so we ask you to listen to the voice of reason next time, not pressure, and give your voice to your mother to Serbia and your future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25463	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? There is a word from MP Zivko Selakovic, deputy president of the Serbian parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25464	Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after all this morning's tumultuous beginning, it is very difficult to be focused and to say what is to be said today at this fateful moment, but I am particularly pleased to think that the directorship below me, for our viewers, will put the inscription "The Peasant Party of Serbia, MP Zivko Selakovic". But let me move on to the main topic. We, MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are now facing another very important commitment, to define by means of or against the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the law on its implementation, and to decide on the fate of the community and thus on the essential issues of the future of the people in these areas. The very fact that the Constitutional Charter's text commission has worked so long that due to various political interests, there have been a lot of tensions, outsmarts and obstructions, it shows all the delicacy of the work that was to be done. And today, when the text of the charter and the law on its implementation are finally before us, many dilemmas remain unresolved. Some of the initial differences are even more deepened. There are no clear answers, even to the essential issues of the status of the state union, its members and bodies. The delay in resolving issues for a future time only makes it more clear that the process of implementing the charter will be complex, uncertain, and full of traps and temptations. Nevertheless, the attitude of the Peasant Party of Serbia and its organs is unequivocal. The Constitutional Charter and the law on its implementation, despite all shortcomings, should be supported, with expectations that the remaining issues will be resolved, because one thing is clear - if we do not adopt documents on the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, our path to European integration will be questioned, and thus the future of the people from these areas. In these fateful moments, it is politically wise to put individual parties, personal and collective interests in another plan, for the sake of a top-notch - national interest. Today's the time to do it. As in any turning situation, long - term misunderstandings occur. That's what happened this time. The definition of Serbia's Peasant Party's legal authorities that, despite the shortcomings mentioned, we still plead to the Charter and the law on its implementation, has led to a variety of pressures from those who have a different attitude and even from the actions inappropriate in democratic perception of resolving political misunderstandings. Regardless of the pressures mentioned, Serbia's Peasant Party will vote in favour of documents on the agenda today, hoping both the controversial and remaining unresolved issues will be resolved in the coming period in the interest of the Serbia-Montenegro community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25465	Thank you. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) There is a word from MP Borislav Pelevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25466	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Micic has violated the Rules of Procedure, Article 24 paragraph 3, which clearly states: "A delegation group of at least five members can be joined by association to educate the MPs of political parties, other political organisations or groups of citizens, who have less than five MPs." Serbia's peasant party, which was mentioned by the previous speaker, did not participate in these elections on its own. Therefore, under the name of the electoral list -- the Serbian Unity Party, stands nothing, the name of any other party. We made an internal agreement with the coalition. The agreement was not submitted to the Republic Election Commission. Therefore, the Peasant Party of Serbia cannot be represented here as a special party or a defect from a political club, which was bought by the DOS, only for the purpose of voting on the constitutional charter and the law on its implementation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25467	Mr. Pelevic, I give you a notice under article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25468	Madam Chairman, this morning I asked you to list the names of five MPs of the new phantom parliamentary group, who calls itself so pretentiously - Serbia. Please state, to see if the parliamentary group has five MPs, as Djuro Popovic reiterated his statement that he remains inescapable at the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary club. You are in violation of not only the Rules of Procedure, you are also violating the Law on the Selection of People's Substitutes, which in Article 88(1) provides that the MP who leaves the party, or the coalition, automatically loses his mandate. The Constitutional Court of Serbia is currently contesting, which does not mean that it has disputed, nor has it reached a decision on the non-constitutional nature of the member. This assembly, in this composition, absolutely does not reflect the electoral will of the citizens. This assembly is illegal, this assembly is not legitimate and does not represent the electoral will of citizens, which was held in the 2000 elections, when there were only four electoral lists, which were verified by the Republic Election Commission. You, as chairman, are harshly violating the law, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, or you are unwise to answer the questions of the heads of parliament, who are calling you publicly, because you recognise the phantom parliamentary groups, because you recognise the MPs who resigned, and today they are here in parliament; they have signed a request to convene this assembly. This assembly is unconstitutional, illegal and does not match the electoral will of Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25469	You've already answered the question, and I've already given the answer, and it's also addressed to the Administrative Committee. Mr. Pelevic, do you want me to give you an explanation, since you asked a question? Thank you, Mr. Pelevic. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The Minister of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25470	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, fellow ministers, honored guests, as a member of the government who has issued his opinion, I am obliged to explain to you, elected national representatives and Serbian citizens my position on which there has been a lot of controversy, there have also been comments, of course, on the Belgrade Agreement, that is, the Constitutional Charter on the agenda of the Republic's parliament today. Unfortunately, I least expected that the debate on this issue would take place when the Holy Sava, on a day marking school glory, was dedicated to this great lighthouse that depicts both Serbian and stately and spirituality. That is why God helps all those who honor the Holy One, who glorify the Holy One. By the way, Saint Sava said that the East thought Serbia was the West, and the West said Serbia was the East. In amannet, our first lighthouse left us that Serbia is the East in the West and the West in the East, that we are our own, that we have sacred and worldly responsibilities towards ourselves, our faith, and our own way and our own position. As citizens of this country, we have been able to reach the ideal and to be ourselves, to build our independence and self-loathing among the nations. Democracy is the respect of the other. How can we respect another if we don't respect ourselves? How can we appreciate someone else's country if we don't have one? Is it possible that only we in the whole world don't want our own country, and we had a country when there was little who had it. Today, when so-called everyone has it, we don't have it. Serbia was internationally recognised by the country in the late 19th century, Serbia entered the community as a 27th internationally recognised state. Today, the United Nations has over 220 members, and Serbia is not among them. Therefore, instead of remembering today our famous ancestors, Stevan Nemanja and St. Sava, we are still trying to go through some of the unspeakables of Josip Broz and Slobodan Milosevic, creating the fourth Yugoslavia. The third took a little longer than 10 years. This fourth one, she's been married for three years. It's like she was paroled on such a long time sentence. If we keep this up, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'll make a state every Wednesday and Friday, pushing our state-of-the-art tradition, our national identity, our historical memory. Why do I say that? Because, according to the simplest definition of states as an organised society, it involves a community of people who are resident in a particular territory and have a certain supreme authority. So the elements of the state are people, territories and government. What are the three essential concepts of power? Independence, continuity and indivisibility. Whether Serbia-Montenegro's future state union, which is due to establish a charter on the agenda today, will include these three properties of government. Is she independent? It's not. Is it continuous? It's not. Is it indivisible? It's not. Can it then be said that it will be one serious state? He can't. You could learn something, Mr. Martian, it's about time, you've spent a lot of time here, it's not about flour, it's about the state. So the constitutional charter or rather the anti-constitutional charter, consisting of the Belgrade Agreement or rather of a Belgrade misunderstanding, should form a state union in which there is neither a state nor a community. There is no state in the world that is established by an act called the Constitutional Charter. Find me such a country in the world, and especially as these constitutional statutes are brought against the provisions of the existing constitution. This state-law, I would say perpetum-mobile, is neither a Federation nor a confederate, nor a federal state, nor an alliance of states, nor a real union, nor a personal union. The president of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, Mr. Slobodan Vučetic, has designated it half-state for a certain time. Like this, I'd say, the sui generis of the state, besides it doesn't exist, nor has it ever existed in practice, can't even be found in theory. I've been trying to represent these old state and law theorists, from Grotius and Kelzen to Jelinek, there's no wonder from the state as predicted by this constitutional charter. Many today imitate Slobodan Jovanovic, and his name is even on one of our bills, it's unfortunate that we haven't rehabilitated him yet, but he certainly rolls over in the grave when he sees what kind of state he's forming. This is because Slobodan Jovanovic was one of the best legal theorists in matters of sovereignty both state and people, as well as legal and political. Sovereignty means that only the state has sovereign authority, it has a supremacy over all other authorities. The unsuspecting state, which is created by such a constitutional command, the old Romans would say, is contradictio and adecto, because as constitutional and legal theorists say, sovereignty as so-called. The suspicion of postestas involves three concepts: external, internal and synthetic. The external element of the notion of sovereignty means that the state authority in making its decisions is free and independent of any foreign interference, of any external influence. Is this external element of sovereignty present, if at all, if it is a constitutional charter, can it speak of sovereignty in such a formation? Of course not. It was made under the dictatorship of the international community and Javier Solana, as only sovereign Serbia and sovereign Montenegro could make one rational and real community. It must exist first to unite. Only sovereigns unite themselves. Unsuspecting, unfortunately, unite others, and that's the case here. How did it all start? Because of the concern that Montenegro, then divided into two options, one independent and another pro-Yugoslavian, will develop tensions, develop turbulence, create enmity, which can affect the entire Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which can destabilise the region, destabilise the Balkans, create a new focus of conflict, the European Union has sent Javier Solana to design Serbia-Montenegro's new state union. In this way, there is a signing of the Belgrade Agreement, which abolished the constitutional-legal SRJ. That this is thus confirmed by the Preamble of the Constitutional Charter, which lies before you and in which the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Constitutional Charter is not the Reviszione clause of the existing Constitution, but the so-called Constitution. The Belgrade Agreement. The Law implementing the Constitutional Charter does not state anywhere that, by way of effect, this Charter ceases to apply the Constitution of the SRJ, which means that we have a very discriminatory legal or even better said constitutional - legal void. The Belgrade agreement is a document made up of less -- more in the interest of Montenegro and Mr Milo Djukanovic, the then-president, and the current prime minister of Montenegro. Who doesn't believe it should look at the basics of Montenegro's new relations with Serbia. It is Montenegro's platform to paralyze relations in the SRJ and 80% of the Montenegrin platform is contained in the Belgrade Agreement, or contained in the Constitutional Charter, even more. The Montenegrin platform envisions a single market, a single customs space and a single conversion currency. So a step away from what was Montenegro's platform to redecorate relations in the common state. On the other hand, the DOS platform, which was later transformed into a common DOS platform and the coalition "Together for Yugoslavia", envisioned two minimums: a functional Federation and a single economic space. We spent days and hours agreeing on the writing of that platform, to make up a document that would be working on the affirmation of the functional Federation. The two-cameral assembly, as is the case in the Federations; that the government should be formed according to the office principle, not that the president of the state union should also be prime minister, i.e. the chairman of the Council of Ministers; in terms of economic powers, it has been stressed that only in the jurisdiction of the future state union is the monetary system, customs system, banking system, bond law, securities. So it was the DOS platform. With the platform, SRJ President sat down on the canoes with Javier Solana, and stood up with some less - more confederal platform of Milo Djukanovic. It has already been said that, before that, the DOS coalition agreement and the "Joint for Yugoslavia" coalition in Article 5, provided that the reform of relations in the SRJ requires a change of the federal constitution, this change can only be made in a legal and legitimate manner, through the procedure of changing the federal constitution provided for by the provisions of the Constitution of the SRJ. I have already said that the Constitution is completely absorbed and that the basis for the adoption of the Constitutional Charter is so-called. The Belgrade Agreement. On the other hand, the charter, according to the Belgrade Agreement, was to be adopted by the end of June last year, and a new constitution by Serbia-Montenegro was to be brought by the end of last year. None of what it says in the Belgrade Agreement itself has been realised. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 2 declares the principle of national sovereignty, establishing that it belongs to citizens and that citizens, among other things, are making it a referendum. Article 135. Serbia's constitution speaks of Serbia's relations and obligations to the SRJ. Otherwise, the amendment to the Constitution and constitutional arrangement of the National Assembly, by the letter of the Constitution, is decided by the two-thirds majority. The adoption of the Constitutional Charter is the most drastic change of the Constitution and the most drastic change of constitutional arrangements. The principle of decision-making was adopted by the absolute majority. It's not simple, it's absolute. The half is more than one of the present, and this is the total number of members of Parliament 250 - 126; it is an absolute or qualified majority, one of the forms of qualified majority. In any case, starting with the principle of national sovereignty, which is contained in the still valid Constitution, which some even congratulated us on Lazarev's Saturday last year, as it is, and starting from the principle of the people's right to self-determination, which was contained in the first member of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, which was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly resolution on 16 December 1966, was the least needed to do is to give Serbian citizens the opportunity to declare in a referendum whether they want to live in such a state, which provides them with nothing, and it costs them very much. A 400,000 citizens' initiative to call a referendum on independent Serbia has been put in place. It was handed over to this parliament exactly six months ago and one day, July 26th last year, but with the will or will of the assembly majority and the speaker of parliament, it was not found on the agenda of the Republic Assembly, despite the positive opinion of the Committee on Legislatives. The referendum is otherwise a direct declaration by the voters by voting on issues of importance for one community. There are no more important questions for Serbian citizens than what state they will live in. The referendum is the most common form of the so-called referendum. direct or semi-direct democracy and it should be a corrective so-called Indirect democracy. There is a referendum in many world countries, Switzerland, Great Britain, France. For example, the change of the constitution in 49 US states is mandatory for citizens to be declared a referendum. Even the Council of Europe provides for two categories of referendum: so-called consultative referendums and referendums to be decided. Otherwise, as regards the timing of the referendum, there is a so-called referendums before the law and after the law, as predicted by the Constitution. What's a special paradox, it's too serious and this should be heard, all the former Yugoslav republics in referendums or plebiscites, it's kind of a pandan for the referendum, they decided to stand alone. Slovenia decided by plebiscite on 23 December 1990, Macedonia on 8 September 1991, Croatia Declaration of Independence on 25 June 1991, Bosnia and Herzegovina, without Republika Srpska, plebiscite on 29 February and 1 March 1992. I remind you that a referendum was organised in Montenegro in 1992, and then the citizens of Montenegro said they wanted to live in a community with Serbia. Only Serbian citizens have never been given the opportunity to decide their fate. Either way, and despite the fact that in the first Yugoslavia, which was created by the Krfski Declaration and later consolidated and verified by the Geneva Agreement and the exchange of written statements on December 1st 1918, only Serbia was directly and later indirectly introduced by the Podgorica Assembly through Serbia, Montenegro. Today, all the countries of the former Yugoslavia are internationally recognised, only half of the rotating chair is offered to Serbia. The whole Balkans have been the last 15 years of expansion space of nationalism. For the emergence of nationalism only Serbia was declared responsible and while everyone else on the basis of the idea made a state, Serbia did not create its own state. We felt it was high time for what was promised to the citizens in the election campaign, when our slogan, our motto was "the people wonder". Whether there are more important issues for Serbian citizens than what state they want to live in. A few months ago, a referendum was organised in Ireland, in which the citizens of Ireland pleaded - whether they agreed to increase the number of members of the European Union from 15 to 25 since 2004. Be careful, the citizens of Ireland in the referendum decided on the fate of other countries and their citizens, and Serbia's citizens are not given the opportunity to declare their country and their fate. On the other hand, we have to be in agreement with reality. Who doesn't agree with reality, very quickly becomes a matter of political past. What does that mean? It means that Europe is our only choice and our only reality. A bid for independent Serbia is not a donchiotic venture that would turn Serbia into some kind of Robinson desert island. On the contrary, the goal is Serbia in Europe and Europe in Serbia. Why did we demonstrate false defiance? For as one of our greatest priests said: Yugoslavia was defiant to Christ, in spite of the Holy One, in spite of people's wisdom, in spite of national honesty, in spite of every people's sanctity, defiance and defiance. It's time to stop with that practice. All citizens of this country should be told openly that Europe is our only commitment. Europe should be told that the aim of this government is to serve every democratic state and to act unanimously with it. No matter who's in power has to listen to the voice of the people. One time, Charles de Gaulle told Andre Malro that the basic question was whether the French wanted to rebuild France. "I will not renew France without them," said Charles de Gaulle. Those who express concern about the idea of an independent Serbia point out several arguments: allegedly, Europe is against further disintegration in the Balkans; if we do not make a common state we will be isolated, we will be punished, we will not be able to enter European integration; and if it is not the state union we are supposed to lose Kosovo. It's all a cheap excuse and all this is absolutely wrong. First, an independent, independent, sovereign and stable internationally recognised Serbia first needs to join an alliance with such Montenegro, to form an alliance or union of sovereign states, and then to go further integrated processes, looser or less looser, with Macedonia, through Republika Srpska with the BiH Federation, etc. So Serbia can be not a remethylatic, but an integral factor in the Balkans. Secondly, the European Union rests at the will of the people. The will of the people is a fundamental postulate. She's a paradigm of the European Union. Who doesn't know how to read the works of Rober Shuman or Adenauer a little, so they will see that the will of the people is intact for all European integration. If the citizens of Serbia pleaded for independent Serbia in a referendum, Europe would immediately verify and there would be no consequences for Serbia and its citizens. Finally, we lost Kosovo precisely because of Yugoslavia. It's not like there's some kind of fourth Yugoslavia to save our Kosovo. So, the stories are empty that we will lose Kosovo as a god - so we have already lost it with Yugoslavia. Only one stable, strong, integrated, democratic, sovereign, internationally recognised Serbia, long-term diplomatic, filigree policy may restore lost sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. After all, do not just refer to Resolution 1244. Read the so-called The constitutional framework. Neither Yugoslavia nor Serbia are mentioned there. There's nothing there. So it's a ratio of strength, it's politics, it's a simple struggle for some better positions with good diplomacy. Someone once said that if Serbia is a temple, then Kosovo is an altar. There is no temple without altar and no Serbia without Kosovo. I would point to another dimension regarding the Constitutional Charter. When it comes to finance, each member of the future state community pays in proportion to its size. So Serbia pays 95%, and when it comes to deciding then the principle of clean parity is adopted -- 50 to 50. Serbian taxpayers, of course, did not ask if they liked it. To make the paradox bigger, as it is already agreed that the president of the future state union will be from Montenegro, and in the event of a decision on the council of ministers (three by three), it is more worth the vote of Montenegro's president, so the minority of 5% will have a majority above the majority of 95%. Is there such a way of deciding in a country in the world? Of course not. It is immediately asked whether all places in the future administration of the common state will be shared on the same principle: in diplomatic and consular representations, in administrations, directorates, alliances, institutes, or in all institutions that remain at the level of the future state community. It's a completely discriminatory principle, so-called. positive discrimination in parliament, the principle of consensus. The fact that the president and the prime minister are the same personality, the inability to change the Charter before the three-year term expires, remains open since the deadline counts. The problem is also membership in international financial organisations and the censorship needed for this, the rotation of defence and foreign ministers, the absence of a common market, banking, monetary policy, customs, etc. It's been said here more than once that there's no place in the world with different coins, different customs and anything like that. The story of harmonising economic systems is a dead letter on paper, according to that people's "not a lip ass to green grass". What's harmonised so far? Of course, nothing. It hasn't moved any further since the beginning. It is not necessary to say how much damage the various branches of industry suffer because of the inability to join the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, which is why we are completely uncompetitive on the foreign market. The shortcomings of the Constitutional Charter, of its cohesion with the Belgrade Agreement, on the one hand, and the Law on Implementation, on the other hand, we can talk for hours. Making a state without any concept or strategy for the military, it's really devastating. It is a message to Zivojin Mišić, and to Duke Stepi and to Radomir the Traveler, which is to wipe from history and from Suvobor, and to Kolubara, and to Bregal, and to the Kymachalan, and to all things. This document creates a virtual creation at the expense of Serbian citizens. Last year, the federal budget amounted to just over a billion euros. They say it will take 800m euros this year, and Serbia pays no more than 100%, but 95%. That is why the vast majority of Serbian citizens are independent of Serbia. Feel free to form one survey committee, hire the most famous public opinion research agencies and you will see that at least 70% of the country's citizens are independent, independent, sovereign, internationally recognised Serbia. Why not determine the true will of the citizens. I guess we need a country of custom and the will of the people. Today, parties in Serbia differ practically by whether they are for Milosevic or for Solana Yugoslavia. We are neither for each other, but for sovereign, independent and independent Serbia. On the other hand, we respect the will of the majority, and we don't want to do any destruction or obstruction, we want to fight with the strength of the arguments. Time is the best judge and time will show who was right. What I want to draw your attention to is Milo Djukanovic's statement that, with little luck, patience, reason and self-esteem, in a year or two or three, Montenegro will be sovereign and independent, internationally recognised. You don't have to accept it with underestimation. Milo Djukanovic liked it or not, it is a serious, state statement, which routed the way of Montenegro's future state. At the same time, it is also a reminder and a warning, because I fear that when the time passes, Montenegro will go its own way, and we will again be found, confused, surprised, unprepared and laminate over some fifth Yugoslavia. I think it's a message to our state-owned tradition, our national identity, our historical memory. On the cougar of the Yatagane, our ancestors shed blood. I'm afraid that today on the day of St. Sava, their bones roll over in their grave, looking at a state, a year before the 200th anniversary of the First Serbian uprising, their descendants create. Next year's that big jubilee. The party I belong to will not participate in a federal administration with any single man, not in any ministry, not in any administration, not in any institute, not in any alliance. So absolutely nowhere. I hope there will be understanding and that it will be smart enough not to waste time on false illusions that Montenegro will stay with us. We've had these illusions in the past, and everyone who wanted to leave has gone. However, we will make all preparations so that we can declare our independence and sovereignty at the same time as Montenegro. I hope that very soon, on the day of St. Sava, under the flag, coat of arms and anthem of Serbia, we will exclaim with the love of an independent, sovereign and independent Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25471	Replication to the presentation of a member of the Government or a previous speaker? National MP Dragan Marsicani, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25472	Mr Batic suggested, responding to one of my attackers, to be careful and to learn from him. I'd learn from Mr. Batic, but I'm afraid I'm not caught. Reacting to the first ball, to one of my short attacks, Mr Batic showed a certain degree of anxiety and even members of the government today have a very high degree of anxiety. That's completely understandable. It is a great pain to speak for 34 minutes and 37 seconds and explain why an act should not be adopted, in order to adopt the act two hours later. Bust into Orthodox, Serbian, patriotic breasts, which advocate independent Serbia, and adopt an act that prevents the establishment of what Mr Batic advocates. Under such circumstances and such a moral dilemma, it is not easy to be completely collected. The moral dilemma, mentioned by Slobodan Jovanovic, as Mr Batic did, can indeed solve Slobodan Jovanovic, the one Mr Batic mentioned from the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25473	According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is no replica on the line. Therefore, the MP or anyone else, who performs in the National Assembly for a speaker, has the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure and you do not have the right to replicate. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or their deputies answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move to a debate in order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the debate on the text of the Constitutional Charter and the law for its implementation. 33 MPs have been reported. The first has the word of MP Dragan Tomic, followed by MP Zivorad Rakovic. Dragan Tomic is not present. The word has a folk MP, Živorad Rakovic, followed by MP Vlatko Sekulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25474	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear guests who listen to us, and, as you say, you're just looking at us, I'm going to make a digression: here's the third time, let's put it this way, it's breaking the seat where I was sitting. As the seat below me collapsed just now, the fourth time I can expect a device under my seat. I'm used to situations like that in the past. I'd like to draw your attention to the name of this document called the Constitutional Charter. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that under the charter it was meant and applied in the Middle Ages, and that is what distinguished colleagues and colleagues should know, the donation of possessions from rulers or monasteries to one of the members of the government or to the citizens of that time who deserve the ruler or the monastery. This is practically not a known case. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm sure it was made, or called a charter document, which builds a state-owned structure. Such a case in history, as far as I know, is unknown. If we are talking about a new century, then we can talk about the 1945 UN Charter, but we are not going to pay attention now and call on the UN Charter, which has been transformed from the League of Nations or the United Nations into a UN and which regulates relations between Member States, sovereign, independent and independent, as well as international relations. Therefore, this document, called the Constitutional Command, does not correspond to the text contained in the Charter itself. So, the DHSS resents the writers, so to speak, for the very name they prescribe, determine, regulate relations between the two states. Another fundamental observation: unknown in history -- two states in a third country. If you find me an example in history, I will withdraw my objection to this name. Article 2 right now states that the state of Serbia-Montenegro is made up of the state of Serbia and the state of Montenegro. Where did you read that? I hope you're all here mostly educated people and you know very well that it's theoretically impossible, let alone applied. Furthermore, the DHSS's observation of the text, the content of this document; the harmonisation requires the harmonisation of two economic systems. I'm asking one of the writers to answer where they read it, what system it's in, and in which case a process like that or some kind of collapse has been carried out. You know what harmony is, what harmony is in music. It's known that there's this term in math, and it's also known that it exists in history, but in this way, there's really no basis. I don't want to comment on the content that has so much illogicalness, contradictions, that it's just that a man wonders why it is. So, the DHSS, as the president and vice president of the party have pointed out, and this is our commitment, is permanent for the formation, creation of an independent Serbian state, which, if necessary and expressed through a referendum by members of the Serbian nation and citizens living in Serbia, will then join the talks, agreements and, of course, create some form of community with Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25475	This has exhausted time at the disposal of the DHSS parliamentary group. The word is by MP Vlatko Sekulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25476	Madam Vice President, honourable fellow MPs, when a man listens to this discussion, Malten, it feels like we're talking about unwanted pregnancy when we mention this state community. We all kind of took part in it, and now there are individuals who would like to wash their hands of it. I think it's an entirely irresponsible and unacceptable behavior. It would be useful for all of us to remember how we got to this and to realize that some things were set upside down. It's just that it's upside down that we're creating something completely new right now. We remember that on October 5th 2000, relations between Serbia and Montenegro were gone. There was not even diplomatic relations, let alone that the common state had functioned. Of course, it was all the result of the nationalist policy that destroyed the country where I grew up, the former Yugoslavia, I have to admit, the country that I personally own, and I think many of my generation, stayed at heart. I would never accept the qualification of nationalists who claim that Yugoslavia was the dungeon of the Serb people. I don't think that's true, but I wouldn't get into it. I think it's important something else: that then the country, which went through reforms, which was headed towards a market economy, towards a multiparty democracy, was killed in 1991. She was killed by one crime, treason, withdrawal, first of all, if we're going to find one symbolic act, unit JNA to the so-called. The borders of the great Serbia that were to be created through fire and sword. The results of such a policy, unfortunately, are clear to all of us. I think that the last decade of the 20th century, both for the citizens of Serbia and for the Serbian people outside this country, has not had a more difficult decade in its entire history since that decade. When we look at statistics, it's enough to get a census from this year, we can come up with catastrophic data and conclude that this and such policy has been devastating for the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. It is enough to indicate only one fact that Serbia belongs to the first 10 countries at the average age of the population. I think that, as responsible people, we should imagine ourselves above this data and plan our political action based on realistic indicators. So today we're in front of that constitutional command. It's been said more than once that it's not the perfect document. After all, even the best document can be improved. However, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Social Democratic Party, the constitutional charter and constitutional law are the product of a certain political reality. It may have been better, but the set of forces, the relations of forces, the influence of the European Union, the influence of the parties represented in the commission, in two parliaments, etc., has led to this product that we have today. I think any further delay in the adoption of these documents would be counterproductive. There are several examples that make it important to pass that law, or constitutional charter, in order to simply move forward. I'll only provide one of the data I personally know about. I know that, for example, a significant arrangement with the Spanish government, related to supporting the development of our infrastructure, how the ZTP, air traffic, etc. stands and waits for the signing of the constitutional charter. I don't know, fellow MPs, do you know that the agreement on increasing the export quotas of the textile industry towards the European Union depends on this constitutional charter? If we are already talking about the interests of ordinary people, if we are talking about the interests of industry workers, agriculture (meat is mentioned) we must also consider these quite realistic facts. I think it would be a good idea if we came out of this session with that adopted document. More than once, ancestors and saints have been called, and I think our responsibility is primarily to the living, to those who live with us today and to the generations to come. I don't think we can get ourselves into a situation where some future generations look at us with some misbehavior because we simply weren't at the height of the task ahead of us. I think a long time ago, in ancient times, it was forged with one max, which says that the government is essentially able to look good to another, to make another better. If we go from that point of view, then it's clear that our direction is drawn, with all the advantages, the flaws, with all the problems, and that's the adoption of a constitutional charter and constitutional law, and then the operation in two directions. One direction is certainly further harmonisation of relations between Serbia and Montenegro, especially on the economic plan. There may be the weakest part of the Constitutional Charter and the law, but surely these are the parts that are being improved. On the other hand, it is further building democratic institutions. I think that our main task, after this discussion and adoption of these documents, will be to choose legitimate bodies at Union level, so that it begins to work and that it can now lead to the realization of the other two objectives. I think that, in the short term, these are two basic objectives: membership in a partnership for peace, a system of security, guarantees of our borders, the security of every citizen living in Serbia-Montenegro's territory; and another direction of action is the signing of an Association and Stabilisation Agreement with the European Union. This agreement should enable us not only to access certain funds, but also to further join Serbia-Montenegro with the European Union. I am deeply convinced that, no matter what is said today, no matter what these documents look like today, that much of the future of that community will depend on how quickly we realize these two objectives on the international agenda. If we realise these two goals, I am convinced that this community will survive for simple, rational reasons, because anyone who separates himself, whether Serbia or Montenegro, will have to repeat the same path again, and that will mean for the citizens of that republic another two to three years. I think that whatever government it is then in Serbia or Montenegro should not be so irresponsible to treat its citizens and should not be guided by some irrational goals and ideas, but will have to be guided towards the interests of its citizens. Dear ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget (to conclude) that on 1 January 2004, the European Union arrives at Serbia's borders and then Montenegro. Let us not forget that in 2007, a date has already been set for Bulgaria and Romania to join the European Union. With regard to where the Czech Republic used to be, where Poland once was, compared to that former Yugoslavia, it does not seem unrealistic to me at all to enter the European Union in the second decade of the 21st century. I think it's a real date in 2013. First of all, it's up to all of us, and here I think of all the political groups that we belong to, except for certain individuals, who will remain completely in some of their crazy ideas, etc., I think of all the other responsible people, who plead to certain values of humanism, that we all need to realize that this is our generation's test, means the generations of MPs who are here, that for generations who come after us, we allow a path to a better future and that we even provide them with a better world in this Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25477	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25478	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the previous speaker tells us that we are a generation that should impress citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. Yes, it is a generation, the majority in DOS, whose first job is the Republic Assembly and the first post of some ministerial function. I don't want to list individuals, but they are recognized in my speech. Mr. Batic asks - where is he? He is a generation a little older, and Mr Batic, I will remind you that you were "in the chest", headed by Zoran Djindjic in 1999, in 2000: "When we come to power, there will be a common state of Serbia-Montenegro". Milo Djukanovic and Zoran Djindjic, as they drank on the yacht during the war, agreed that everything would be fine. But, gentlemen, as a businessman, I've been thinking for twenty-two years, when a deal is made, an agreement, a contract, and so on, I guess it should be respected. There's an agreement here, where five of them are signatories. Of the five signatories, three in from Serbia. Of the three, two say the constitutional charter and constitutional law are wrong. What are we discussing today? How do you DOS want to convince us? Is this the Belgrade Agreement? Here was signed by Vojislav Kostunica, who says it is a bad constitutional law and constitutional charter. Miroljub Labus, vice-president of the government, a senior post in the country, from newly formed G-17, Milo Djukanovic from Montenegro, Filip Vujanovic from Montenegro. This proposed constitutional charter corresponds only to people who will act as the common state, i.e. officials, because a large number of officials are now out of work, those from DOS, because they have been at some top functions; and now, for the sake of peace in the house, here, it has begun to happen and to take office, parliamentary mandates in this assembly, some new famous parties are forming, etc. Because Zoran Djindjic wants to own 250 seats in the National Assembly. Here, I suggest we put it to a vote, give him all these mandates. Make a decision, vote this radical, harmful common state, and let's read it in the press, as we've done so far, what's going on in this country. Today's assembly debate on the constitutional charter of the joint state of Serbia-Montenegro has been offered on the principle of "take or leave". We cannot propose any amendments today, and many members of this proposed law and constitutional charter are harmful to Serbia and the Serbian people, ladies and gentlemen. In particular, when it comes to financing the common state, 95% will be financed by Serbia and the people living in Serbia. That is why Mr Djelic, called "God's Derikoza", introduced some new taxes and some new obligations, when it comes to private entrepreneurs, fiscal cash registers, etc. There are no fiscal registers in Montenegro, but there are in Serbia, only to keep DOS, as it is, in power. Also, whoever finances it, and who will finance it, well, the peasants will finance it. Someone just said, "flee," one traitor, says the Peasant Party supports a god-awful common state. Well, peasants, farmers, ladies and gentlemen, they've been downgraded the prices of their agricultural product for the last six months, so the meat price has dropped 40% at the market and other obligations. And that, well-informed agriculture minister (he was early in the afternoon, and now he's escaped) I didn't get to ask him again in the morning -- why he came to this room today; when he comes to the gym he should come out and say: farmers won't pay, he won't have any obligation for that common state, as Mr. Vladan Batic came out and defends his ministry. We disagree with him, but beware, it is the only ministry that has managed to get people who are employed in the ministry to have 500 euros in salary. I wish farmers had such a minister for agriculture and that such a minister for agriculture struggles; and unfortunately, this one fights only to kidnap a party, or to kidnap his party. Who else is funding this joint state? It's funded by workers, those who have lost their jobs, ladies and gentlemen, because their factory is sold, they finance them. It's funded by students through tuition, that money goes to education workers' salaries, that's fine, but education workers' salaries didn't increase because college tuition was increased. That's very well known, Milka, you may not have a student, if you have, your salaries are high, your function is high, you don't pay anything, it's easy for you, but it's hard for those parents who have lost their jobs, and they have kids in college, it's hard for farmers and it's hard for them, Milka, the pensioners, and it's hard for those pensioners where you cut their salaries. And on the same day, you increased your pay. These people are hard. Who else is funding, what's the biggest problem? The biggest problem in this proposed constitutional charter is that no decision can pass in the joint nadal state unless it votes more than half of Montenegro's MPs, or Serbia. It happens that no decision can go away if 18 MPs of 35, as many as Montenegro has, do not vote; these 18 MPs, if on average 12,000 votes, one MP in Montenegro takes, that means 226,000 voters, will veto a decision on more than 6 million Serbian citizens. Is that a good constitutional charter? There is now no one who explained earlier, Mr Zoran Djindjic, that it is very good and that it is useful for the Serbs and the Serb people. The Serbian Unity Party will not vote in favour of the Charter, nor of this constitutional law, because this is not a common state. I heard from a gentleman named that country, I'm not the author of that word, this common state is called "Juka-jini". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25479	The word has the People's MP Nenad Lemajic, and after him... I apologize, Mr. Lemajic. The word has a minstar of justice, Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25480	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind you that a party whose president, the Democratic Party of Serbia, has brought a referendum on 14 July 2001, so nine months before the signing of the Belgrade Agreement. Even then, we've been copying what's going to happen to the common state. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen, someone here tried to replicate me, so he escaped; the law implementing the constitutional charter is an absolute step towards independent Serbia. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter is a complete suspension and paralysing of a common state that is not even created. I'm not going to use the phrase "the worse - the better" but for those who advocate independent Serbia, this law fits perfectly. This law has not solved anything. Everything the Constitutional Commission has done for 10 months and could not agree on, it has put into this law and said - special laws will be passed, on federal court, on property, on the way, on the very organisation of the functioning of the Federation, on the coat of arms, on the flag, on the anthem, on constitutional laws, on the alignment of the constitutional charter with the republican constitutions, etc. So whoever advocates independent Serbia has no better gift than such a criminal law on the implementation of the constitutional charter. I don't suppose we'll expect someone to help those who go into political history, who go into political oblivion, to stay in power a little while longer, and we won't be helping those who said "every Yugoslavia in the blurry marica", and then fight for some virtual Yugoslavia for their chair and teeth and nails. We're not on that side.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25481	The People's Messenger Nenad Lemajic has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25482	The esteemed chairman, respected MPs, Serbia-Montenegro are fatefully linked to common history and tradition. In Duklja, today's Montenegro, Stefan Nemanja, the first great Serbian ruler, was born. When the Western Balkans devastated the conquerors and the great forces of the East and the West, Christianity and Islam, Serbs and Montenegrins were always on the same side, never separated and always together. In wars to gain state independence, Balkan and First World, Serbia-Montenegro defended each other and their armies were unique. Our history is the same, our language is the same, our faith and our church are the same, our artists and our writers are the same. To mention only Negos, the most prominent in an endless series of major workers, and Serbia-Montenegro did not share it, neither can Serbia or Montenegro consider it their own. On this sound basis, we have joined the redefining of Serbia-Montenegro's relations. Already here are the second year leaders and institutions of Serbia-Montenegro have been working to redefine the relations of the two states within Yugoslavia. For the past seven months, the Constitutional Commission formed by three parliaments has also been involved in this job. The result of this work is the Constitutional Charter and the law on its implementation. The moment is to face what the constitutional framework of the common state offers and assess whether it exists in such a constitutional framework. In a formal legal sense, many shortcomings could be found in the Charter, as it is undoubtedly the fruit of a political compromise. Personally, I'm not satisfied with a series of solutions. Could she, with all the shortages, be the basis for the start of a new state? That's, of course, a big dilemma. The Democratic Party of Serbia has said that several times. The countries with a much better constitutional and legal basis have failed than those before us today, but they have survived and have been anchored by states that had only indicated the constitution. The political will of the people was generally crucial. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that differences, certainty and reluctance between Serbia and Montenegro are increasing from day to day. The real question is, what are the causes of this, in my opinion, for both peoples a deeply harmful process. The example of Germany and France, two countries that emerged in the ninth century of the Verden Agreement, and after that, tens of times fought over more than 1,000 years, should be taught. Today, borders are wiped out among them, and these two people are the basis of a united Europe. Serbs and Montenegrins never fought each other, but they fought alongside each other many times, defending themselves against common enemies who passed the Balkans. If centuries-old opponents have come closer, as well as why centuries-old and fateful allies, Serbs-Montenegrons, in some ways, should separate. The answer to this question is not too difficult. Two owning regimes, one in Serbia and the other in Montenegro, have also divided the rules for their short-term interests. For the last decades and differences have been highlighted, and what is close and common has been pushed aside. In this, the new government in Serbia did not differ from the old one, and moreover, during the process of adopting the constitutional charter, it was secretly done to divide us and separate us. The Constitutional Charter has been partly converted into a document aimed at the day-to-day need of survival regimes, dealing with political opponents and continuing to collapse all institutions. The former regime in Serbia and the Mil Djukanovic regime have torn Serbia-Montenegro's ties and destroyed the common state. Unfortunately, many within the DOS and current governments have secretly and publicly continued in the way of predecessors, seeking a partner in Montenegro among those who did everything to share us, giving them space in the media and creating an anti-Montenegro mood in Serbia, with obvious goals and means of political marketing. Apparently, their goal was not a common state, but probably trade and personal work. Apparently, some have a political agenda above any national and national interest. Instead of synthesizing, we had plantings, instead of harmonising inconsistencies and division. Of course, they tried and partly managed to make the Constitutional Charter a document whose purpose is the day-to-day need of survival regimes, the fight with political opponents, and the collapse of institutions. On the other hand, significant political forces within the commission and the political public have managed to preserve the essence of the Belgrade Agreement's framework well. The country's disintegration process has been halted, but at a much lower level than what the Democratic Party of Serbia wanted. The question is whether that is enough, especially in the conditions of an illegal assembly and collapsed institutions in Serbia. I believe that the future will bring us a reduction in national and national tensions, harmonisation of relations and create preconditions for much wider integration in the Balkans and in Central Europe. We believe that between separation and merger we should choose unity. Of course, the community doesn't have a perspective if it's being led by those who were de facto working on its destruction. The real partners tomorrow must therefore be nations, not regimes. In particular, they cannot bear the integration of the current regimes of Serbia-Montenegro, which were working on separation. Those who desire the disintegration of the community cannot lead such a community and the DSS will certainly not support them. Their failed, though a dangerous attempt to decommission the state, which failed to fully implement through the Charter, continued through the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter. A number of members, despite persistent and consistent opposition from representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the Commission, have included content that will be the source of Serbia-Montenegro's conflict tomorrow. In the first place, it is a matter of property and an undefined way of electing MPs. The Yugoslav Army, as a very important body of the common state, is trying to incapacitate itself by taking away its property. With no real estate, the army can be blackmailed and disabled every day. To make the paradox bigger, the truth and reconciliation commission, whose job was to contribute to an objective observation of events on the premises of the former Yugoslavia in the past decade, was also abolished. This is due not only to a political cap, but also to serious thoughtlessness. We have to wonder who that might be in the interest of, but certainly Serbia-Montenegro will suffer significant political damage from that. The Law implementing the Constitutional Charter is no doubt an attempt to realise the decommissioning of the state, those who failed through the Charter itself. The inconsistencies and inconsistencies of the Charter itself cannot hide the right intention of the promoter to clearly move forward the country's future collapse and therefore the Democratic Party of Serbia behind the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter certainly cannot stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25483	The word of the messenger of the people is Vojislav Seselj; and after him is the messenger of the people, Joseph Kasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the afternoon debate, I spoke in principle about this poor Constitutional Charter of yours and all the negative consequences it will produce after the survival of the common state. For these 27 or 28 minutes, I will use the Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic to prove to him that the Constitutional Charter and the state union, as he said, is daft, slimy and incompetent to live. He couldn't convince us to show little faith and love for that constitutional charter and the state union, because we stick to the old principle of Valtazar Bogisic "that the coat of arms does not correct the time". There was nothing more ugly to write than this, and now I'm going to try to prove to you that this text was written by incredible legal dilettantes, people who don't understand themselves in law. I'll start with this conclusion of the Constitutional Commission. The constitutional commission, which was formed by three congregations as a temporary working body, so the ad hoc working body, would not be very different in this matter, nor if it were a permanent working body, has reached its conclusion and this conclusion has been delivered to us here as a manual for use. What can the Constitutional Commission draw conclusions on? On what day will there be a session, at which time, whether whiskey or tea will be served on the break, whether meat after which you can't think, or whether it will be easier to eat food, vegetables, etc. It's the best way to think about it from the food you've been eating. That you can adopt conclusions and may the final conclusion, that the draft, the proposal for the text that you made up is then and then and then that. But you have reached a conclusion that requires that the Constitutional Charter and the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter be adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro and the Greater Federal Assembly by majority vote than the total number of their MPs. You brought in a legal act. As a rule, the conclusion would have to be an individual legal act. You've passed a general legal act that speaks of voting. You have completed the Constitution of Serbia, you have changed the Constitution of Serbia with this conclusion. Article 111 The Rules of Procedure say "The National Assembly decides by voting on MPs in accordance with the Constitution, the law and this Rules of Procedure. "What does not stand in the Rules of Procedure - in accordance with the Constitution, the law, this Rules of Procedure and the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission. Why didn't you change the Rules of Procedure first? First the Constitution, then the Rules of Procedure, then the Constitutional Commission's conclusions. Under the Constitution, all constitutional changes require a qualified majority, a specific form of qualified majority, a two-thirds majority. No constitutional changes without a two-thirds majority. You're changing the Constitution now. The constitution was supposed to stand - constitutional changes are decided by a two-thirds majority vote, unless the Constitutional Commission orders otherwise. You gave us orders, as if you had ordered us some noises from the hives. Where's your background? You can't even put noises on the water. It won't burn. Oil? Where's your oil? You seem to be using oil for another kind of grease, and it will determine the scientists who did. Here's why this is so ugly what you've done. Here's your first proof that you've created a scarecrow, a mongoloid, that can't live on its own. He's got a human form, but he doesn't have a human spirit and he can't. This has the shape of the highest legal act you've written, but only the outside. There's no ghost of the highest law. Furthermore, in Article 3. The Constitutional Charters formulate the goals of the state community. Is the state union state? Did the state even have an army? You set the goals of the state; so what country in the world has its goals? Does the European Union have objectives? Is there Germany, France, America? The state is a goal to itself. The state is formed to be its own goal. Her longevity is her sole goal. She doesn't have other goals. You set goals, and when our goals are met, we no longer need that state. What are your goals? "The respect of the human rights of all persons in her jurisdiction." First, we didn't need this state community to respect the human rights of all faces. It could have been Serbia and Montenegro themselves. It has been declassified for entering the state union, when you have already abolished the SR Yugoslavia. We didn't defend the name Yugoslavia. We would immediately accept that name to be changed and to be the Federal Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. I'll sign right away. The term Yugoslavia is not at all the subject of our debate, and Djindjic did not have to stay so long on the issue of Yugoslavia and Yugoslavia. We want a federal republic, not some scarecrow that doesn't look like anything: no Federation, no confederation, no real union, nothing. Furthermore, your goal is to "preserve and improve human dignity, equality and rule of law". What you didn't put on - protecting the human environment. To protect and promote human dignity. We are poor if already the Serbian Constitution and the Serbian legislation do not safeguard human dignity, equality and the rule of law. If there is no rule of law, it speaks to the way you work and act in this National Assembly, the way you bring the Constitutional Charter, after you have previously kidnapped many parliamentary groups to force these people to vote on your will and by bringing 13 people here who have not been Members at all for half a year to vote. Is that the rule of law? It's not the rule of law, it's the rule of will, it's tyranny. The tyranny of the congregation's majority. You were the majority once and now at all costs try to be the majority. You lost the regular majority you won in the election, you lost a long time ago. Now you're artificially creating it. Furthermore, you say the aim is to "involve European structures, especially the European Union". Come on, explain this a little bit. How this could not have been done by Serbia-Montenegro every single time you broke up the federal state, to enter the European Union. What's the criterion? What country in the world has the European Union set such a criterion in the first place? This is no criteria for membership in the European Union. There are other criteria. You should make it clear to the people what these criteria are and that under these criteria our country will never become a member of the European Union, that the European Union has long repented and that Greece is its member. And the enlargement of the European Union with Baltic states has been completed: Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Cyprus and Malta. No more enlargement of the European Union. It will offer other countries certain co-operation arrangements, but what Serbia can get, is the same as Bulgaria and Romania will get. We'll be in that status. And we will no longer get closer to this Constitutional Charter, nor will we go far from the European Union. We don't have to fool the people. They published prominent ideologists of the new world order of books that should only be read and seen what their plans were, how they programmed their hegemony and domination. Next, "the creation of a market economy... "I guess we already have a market economy, which is based on freedom of entrepreneurship, if you have not already created a market economy in these two years. Of course, this is not a market economy. And in order to create a market economy, we need to get rid of you first. Because what you're making is not a market economy. You say the market economy is free of entrepreneurship. Of course, especially when you give them 20% taxes, so they're free, so they do whatever they want, they just take their money. They have total freedom, but they're left without their money. Then, you continue "in competition and social justice... "; what social justice is and you have shown it. This is not one of the jurisdictions of the federal state. And you're saying that the goals of the state community are like this, and they're not in the jurisdiction list. There can't be a goal of the state community for something that the state community isn't responsible for. You're in a conflict of goals and jurisdiction. Furthermore, the objectives are "to establish and ensure the smooth functioning of the common market (the European Union already has a single market, and you are only at the level of the common market; you are in charge of Djukanovic) through the coordination and harmonisation of Member States' economic systems. "Be careful, we have already taken big steps to harmonise our country's economic system with the European Union. The economic system of the European Union has objectively certain qualities, certain values. We've never been against the reception of everything that's really worth it. But if you're going to impose on us here the freedom of sexual commitment as a fundamental human right and if you're going to even it with how God created us and how he defined our function in this respect, then we would not be happy to harmonize here with the European Union. Next, you say, "Serbia and Montenegro have a flag, an anthem and a coat of arms." Let's see how you can just arrange it and in what way. There's already a problem with the flag. Serbia says the blue color of the flag, in Montenegro it wants to be blue. Why don't you make them an A.T.A.? Be careful, in the first Serbian constitutional act to speak of the flag, it is said to be blue. It's an archaic term, not a distinction of light blue to one that's a little less light and one that's a little more light. Our stop is the reverse Russian flag. That's how the historic Sultan Ferman was declared. A Turkish sultan gave us a national flag. We have to admit it publicly. That's the flag we loved, she was ours, he gave us such a flag to his Ferman on our proposal, on the proposal of the book of Milos, with poor illiterate Prince Milos going to Carigrad, he didn't know how that flag was set, so he presented it in reverse color. He's gone wrong. That's why we have a flag like this. Next, you say, "A Member State citizen has the same rights and obligations in another Member State as its citizen, except for the electoral right." You will now take away all citizens of Serbia who are citizens of Montenegro at birth and live in Belgrade for 20 to 30 years, the right to vote. They have always voted so far because the right to vote rested on the citizenship of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and in a certain time of life spent in the area where they exercise their electoral right. I think it's been six months under the law. Then you say, "Member States regulate, provide and protect human and minority rights and civil liberties in their territory." Isn't this a conflict with the previous provision on the goals of the state community with regard to respect for the human rights of all persons in its jurisdiction. You're already here saying it's the jurisdiction of the Member States. The Member States have jurisdiction, and the objectives are qualified at the level of the state community. Where's the basic legal logic? Furthermore, you are saying that "the Member States are responsible for the smooth functioning of the common market". If they're responsible, then each one has its own market. How can these Member States be responsible for the smooth functioning? In order for the common market to function smoothly, there must be some higher authority than the Member States that will provide it. As for the state union's budget, "Member States will provide financial resources for the exercise of trusted powers and additional affairs of Serbia-Montenegro. "He will sometimes. He might want some. That's what Djukanovic didn't do even when it was a constitutional obligation, let alone now that he's quite free to determine whether he's going to give a dinar or not. You see further, in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly's responsibilities, the Assembly is said to decide on declaring and abolishing the state of war, with the previous agreement of the Member States' parliaments. Give me one country in the world where such a double decision is made on the declaration of war. The state union declares the state of war, Serbia that consent, Montenegro does not give. Serbia-Montenegro is moving, one will, the other will not. It could be the anthem of this state community of yours. A special story is the way MPs choose. You say in Article 20 that MPs of the Assembly are elected from each Member State, in accordance with European and democratic standards, under the laws of the Member States. Now show me what a European and democratic standard it is for MPs to choose special, proportionate representations in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of Montenegro during the first year following the adoption of the Charter. Is that a European standard? Is that a democratic standard? You are followers of Dimitri Ljotic. Dimitrij Ljotic advocated, and he was in principle for the National Assembly, for the Assembly, he called it the principle of assembly. Since poor Dmitry Ljotic, with his party and his choir, was never able to win more than 1% of the vote in the election and never had any MPs, he was mostly looking for a variant in all his theoretical works that he would have great power in the unelection-free assembly. That's what you do. And you are now in the position of Dimitri Ljotic, you are consistent, you know that there is nothing you can do in the election, so what will the election do? You're not crazy to call the election and you know you don't stand a chance. Why don't you go to the election, get yourself together here and declassify. And Tito did it. He introduced a delegate system, since at one point it was no longer allowed, when certain liberalisation, warming and encouragement occurred in the former Yugoslavia, was not allowed to go to elections. So what's going to go to the election when the nice delegation system, so the comrades agree, so they choose the best between themselves and the best in this system are always the most obedient and everything is kept under control. Someone tell me what a European standard you've put in place for the delegation system. It may be based on the Latvian or Muslim concept of New Europe, without saying something more ugly. Next, you here have a whole series of spicy things about the jurisdiction of individual institutions. I don't want to do much of that, since it's obvious that this has no chance of functioning. It is interesting to ask the question of two basic ministries, the foreign minister and the defence minister. Unlike the current constitutional situation where the federal government was responsible for implementing foreign policy, you entrusted it to the foreign minister. It will coordinate the establishment of a field policy with the competent authorities of the Member States. If he fails, what foreign policy he will lead if the ministry of one Member State tells him one thing and the other tells him another. We'll run out of foreign policy, blocked foreign policy. Furthermore, I would not agree here with Batic's statement that he could not be president of the state union and president of the Council of Ministers. You got it. The President of the Republic in democratic systems is the formal highest authority of the executive authority. He's primarily the highest executive body. In practice, it's usually symbolic, but it can, in principle, not a problem. The president of the state union could not be the president of the court or the president of parliament. What we now have as a solution, it is only for the case of sickness, death, etc., and a very, very temporary solution, so we must have new elections scheduled by February 6th at the latest. Neither can the head of the legislative authority perform an executive, neither judicial nor vice versa. These are three branches of government where there must be no interference, i.e. mixing must be reduced to a minimum. The president of the state union could be the chairman of the Council of Ministers. There is another problem of legal nature, which is foreseen by this charter when the assembly is disbanded to end and the term of office of the president of the state union. This is what is wrong with it, for it must remain the bearer of the executive authority in its place until a new congregation is chosen. Its function must be independent of the disbanding of the assembly, and that is where the president of the state union, i.e. the head of state, differs from the prime minister. You stated here that the defence minister is coordinating and implementing a set of defence policies and military leaders. The Secretary of Defense is in charge of the military, and before that, you've led the Supreme Defence Council to command the army. Turns out the defence minister is senior in office from the commander-in-chief. He can't. The management of the Hierarchy of Management is above command. Management is more serious than command, more responsible than command, more fundamentally, more significant. Command is more executive than handling. Therefore, the senior authority should always manage, and the lower one should command, because the lower one receives a decision to implement it under the command system. The commanding authority shall give the order and the managing authority shall decide. How can I explain this to you when you're not even interested in it, but that's why there are legal experts, so you should hire legal experts. The constitutional commission can't work on the criteria of who can drink the most whiskey or smoke expensive cigarettes. First, he needs to hire experts, so experts say what he can do in accordance with legal principles, and what he can't, what's coherent, what's legally consistent, and then we discuss political solutions, we can do this, we can do this. You've made papaziania out of one legal system like this, from another. The worst part is you've been trying to build a layman's legal system yourself. That's why this constitutional charter of yours is written in the same way as an operation would have been performed, a complex bypass surgery, an opening of the skull, an open brain operation conducted by your butcher from the neighborhood. Just as a butcher from the neighborhood can't operate on your heart or brain, so the layman can't write you a constitutional charter. People who don't know. We've got more here, and since I won't have time to say everything I thought about the army, a few problems. The 55th task is to defend Serbia-Montenegro. It's too general a formulation. It must be a defense of independence, state sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order. According to how you made this so-called. The Constitutional Charter, the military could not be used to defend the constitutional order. That's what we need to discuss. Do you need an army to use it or not? Every internal rebellion is a threat to the constitutional order. It's not an attack. Can the military be used to deal with terrorist gangs? Under this constitutional charter, she couldn't, she couldn't. That's what you had to take care of. In the world, all armies have been engaged more recently in the fight against terrorism, international criminal gangs, drug dealers, such, such as for the classical military function. The Supreme Commander of the Army is the Supreme Defence Council, and the Supreme Defence Council is subordinated to the Secretary of Defense. On the other hand, the defence minister is said to be headed by the military in accordance with the law and powers of the Supreme Defence Council. If he's handling the powers of the Supreme Defence Council, does this mean he's taking over the powers of the Supreme Defence Council? If you were to say - based on the authority given to him by the Supreme Defence Council, you had to formulate it differently. Why didn't you call someone who was right? The Supreme Defence Council, you say, makes decisions by consensus. Since the last days of the Roman Republic, since the last Triumvirate, it has not been remembered in world history that any army has had a collective commander-in-chief. The collective Supreme Command is incompatible with the principle of unanimity in command. Command is always an in-house function. Only one man can command. To decide, to run, to have a collective body. If you had put the Supreme Defence Council in charge of the military, and the Secretary of Defense is in charge, it might already be. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. You've turned everything upside down, so this constitutional charter of yours has no chance of success. You've buried an existing Constitution of the SRJ without knowing it with any norm. No one has written anywhere - since then and then the 1992 SRJ Constitution is no longer valid. Why didn't anyone say anything about that? You don't know what legal act? Well, it may, in the Constitutional Commission's conclusion, be the Constitutional Commission's conclusion that elections are being debated or parliaments are being abolished, by the Constitutional Commission's conclusion that they are being arrested, to be tried. All could now be concluded by the Constitutional Commission, if its conclusion can decide how to vote on constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25485	According to Business, MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25486	Dear President Micic, honourable MPs, in accordance with Article 81. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I suggest we plead that we work until today's debate is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25487	I would like to put on the vote by MP Sinisa Mitrovica to continue the debate until the end and then to join the vote. For 120, against 85, the abstentioned was not voted 22, out of a total of 227 people's workers. I find that the National Assembly has decided to extend the working time until the debate is over, and then we will approach the vote. The word has the people's emissary Kasa Jozef, followed by the MP Zoran R. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25488	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. We are today following a lot of serious developments in this House, and I cannot be surprised at the behaviour of all of us at a time like this, historically, such as the adoption of a constitutional charter. It's like it's not about our country, our country. Believe me, we're giving a very bad picture to our voters. What kind of state we've come up with through committees, and this is how we treat a document that we're supposed to adopt. I think we should imagine if we're doing the work and trust of our constituents. In the name of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, I must say that we are very unhappy when it comes to civil rights, human rights and the rights of national minorities, because not so much power was there to complete the document in a few months and to bring the same day as a basic document. I have to say we're aware of the responsibility, because we could easily deny our votes, and we know what that means. On this occasion, once again we point out trust for you, democratically defined MPs, that during the debate on the accompanying law on civil rights and national minorities, you will make sure that these rights cannot be less than they are today. Otherwise, you should know, together with us, if we want to go to Europe, then without a solution to those rights, there will be no entry into Europe. It seems to me that it is not just us, national minorities, the task and the goal of taking this country to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25489	The word has been made by MP Zoran R. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25490	Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the point where we are to declare, in fact, the end of the existence of a common state of Serbia-Montenegro. Just over two years ago, the parliamentary majority, now in favour of the adoption of the constitutional charter, said in the election campaign that only Serbian citizens should show confidence and that they will solve all unresolved relations between Serbia and Montenegro, all the problems that are on the link between Serbia-Montenegro. Because these are not Serbia-Montenegro's problems, but the problems of Serbia-Montenegro's summit, the problems of Serbia's leadership. When this leadership and the president of the country is changed, they will easily resolve all relations between Serbia and Montenegro. When he is kidnapped and delivered to The Hague, then all problems are resolved and the relationship between Serbia and Montenegro will be established, harmonised, good, correct and Yugoslavia will work. I must say that it was quite clear at the time that these relations would not be established, but I believe that no one, not even you who spoke in the election campaign and, it turns out, lied to Serbian citizens, did not trust your leaders that, in fact, under the harmonisation of relations between Serbia and Montenegro, the abolition of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. Of course, we Socialists, and then and today, think the best interest of Serbia-Montenegro citizens is the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. We are convinced that if the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro pleaded, they would better regulate relations and write a better constitutional charter than it says here. We are also confident that these relations between Serbia and Montenegro would benefit all citizens and Serbia-Montenegro. Today's constitutional charter actually shows a definitive end to the existence of a state, which has functioned according to the principle of interest of Serbia-Montenegro's citizens. And that constitution was called the Frog, both like this and like this. We are now ahead of the adoption of a constitutional charter that is not a frog, but it is on the route of Belgrade-Pogorica, Podgorica-Belgrade, probably as much as you spent fuel on the plane, and as I hear here now, I just don't know who the cigarette distributor was, whether these have private planes, or someone else, probably all of this could, these five-six pages as many constitutional charters, write for one night. However, both this debate and these eight months of playing in fact the debate and writing of the constitutional charter proved completely insane. There was a need to blur something that actually happened by signing the "Belgrade Agreement". And then we were against it, because we thought it would end the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, but we thought the constitutional charter would at least step forward and establish at least some elements of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. It now turns out that the "Belgrade Agreement" is more than the constitutional charter, even in it there are more common functions and predicting more common functions, than this agreement provides for we call constitutional charters. Of course, I have to be honest, the thing that offends Serbian citizens the most is the fact -- who took part in front of the European Union, who brought the constitutional charter and who wrote the constitutional charter -- wrote the one who pressed the button to throw hospitals, schools, bridges in this country, and brought Solana. It is not a problem for the European Union to participate in solving some issues here, it is not a problem. The problem is-- why is solana that emissary? It is, in fact, the fact that the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro want to be underestimated so completely and to say -- well, we bombed you, I pressed a button and I'm going to lift that common state of Serbia-Montenegro. We now see, of course, that story of three years, which has been written here and spoken of here, also leads to an extremely difficult situation for the citizens of Serbia, including Serbia-Montenegro. According to that logic, the state summit, the one that has the parliamentary majority, can make a decision after two and three years, more precisely after three, and step down from that community, but it can also be after four, after five, after six years. More specifically, he brings Serbian citizens into a completely unequal position, that they do not know when someone else will make a decision and leave them, and those in that state community should invest. I'm not just talking about material resources, I'm talking about investing in some common interests and a common perspective. Why is this so and why it has been predicted for just three years, is it not quite an accident, has it been envisaged in Rambuje for three years, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija and the possibility of separating Kosovo and Metohija? Well, since the process of detachment of Kosovo and Metohija and non-stop, or better say, the continued savagery of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija and the non-security of implementation of Resolution 1244, which should ensure security and security in Kosovo and Metohija, does not go its course, and needs an additional period of time for the international community and the European Union to be able to talk and to say - bye-bye students, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. So they're not comfortable with Montenegro leaving the common state at the moment. It suits them that there's a community, as it's called here, some kind of providence from that community. In that case, of course, it is predicted to be after three years, when conditions are created that can be said -- hello students, both Montenegro and Kosovo and Metohija. Because if that were to happen now, it would create problems not only when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, it would create problems within NATO, more specifically, would create problems in Macedonia, including Greece, and thus create a completely different relationship in the Balkans. Given the situation, I need now, here, to come up with some state community that has no authority and that for three years we've been waiting for some new conditions to be created, to open up the process of secession. I have to tell you today, and I am convinced that this is not just about the process of secession of Kosovo and Metohija and the problems in Macedonia, but we here in three years may be discussing some other parts, of Vojvodina, of Sandzak, and of similar issues, if we continue to make and accept some constitutional charters, which are no state union, but a common provision. You see, here we are now talking in Article 12 of the Constitutional Charter about the need for harmonisation; of course, the common market etc. What common market are we talking about? So what is predicted in this constitutional charter, when it comes to the common market, is less than Serbia and Yugoslavia now have with the Republika Srpska. Look at the agreement between Republika Srpska and Yugoslavia, which implies, based on Dayton's special relations, there are greater powers, greater connections and greater obligations between Republika Srpska and Yugoslavia than this constitutional charter implies. Some of the current joint competences between Serbia and Montenegro are greater than some of Serbia-Montenegro's state unions will. So it turns out that this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Yugoslavia is actually a larger state union than Serbia-Montenegro's state union; so such a constitutional charter, even if there is no Constitution of Yugoslavia, that it is written between Macedonia and Serbia, that it is written between Macedonia and Yugoslavia, then we could talk about a level of greater integration than there is. Even then, she could experience criticism in that regard as well as existing agreements between Macedonia and Yugoslavia and Yugoslavia and Russia, between Yugoslavia and Republika Srpska, entail more liberal economic relations with each other than is now foreseen in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We now have a free trade between Yugoslavia and Russia, between Yugoslavia and Macedonia, between Yugoslavia and Republika Srpska. What we will have when it comes to Serbia-Montenegro - in this sense we are, in fact, creating a less common market between Serbia and Montenegro than we have with these countries that are independent and which are not within that framework, and for which we are not, of course, asking to be within that common framework, within the common state. Therefore, all of this involves one situation that is radical. We're saying -- how are we going to get into the European Union like this, so that's why we should go and sign this constitutional charter and accept this constitutional charter? This is exactly what the European Union is not going to do. The European Union wants, in fact, territories that are integrated, that have a common market, that have something that works. This isn't working here. How you will be received by someone in the European Union, who has a common coin, who has a common market, who has a common institution and where it is discussed to create a common constitution, and you are building a constitutional charter that needs to ensure the functioning of that state All this says enough about us actually making not a state, but one freak from the state, we create one situation of complete uncertainty of citizens and of Serbia-Montenegro, abolishing illegal SRJ, past the Constitution, not just because of two-thirds, but also otherwise; we also create a choice of MPs at will, I would say, DOS's majority, by designing percentages in various ways. If we want the federal parliament, then we need to take a percentage from September 2000, because it continues for another two years to work in the federal parliament, and then we need to start from the relationship of forces to the federal parliament. It's small for us, we want December 2000. Okay, and December 2000. But now we're not going to do December 2000, but we want to do it with the help of artificial parliamentary groups and imaginary MPs in this House (you have five plus four, plus nine, you no longer know whose who is who; they've taken five, now they've taken four; however, they didn't object when they took five, now they remember when they took one, that's the problem; it means "every cat comes by the neck," so they'll come to some others. And now, with these parliamentary groups, a parliamentary majority should be formed in the Federal Parliament. It's all freakish, it's all a fabrication, which has no legal basis, and that's why the state community, unfortunately, won't live long. The only happiness is that the Socialists win as soon as possible and, of course, the patriotic forces in Montenegro win and make a common state of Serbia-Montenegro, and by then we will vote against the Constitutional Charter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25491	The word has been made by MP Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25492	After this much debate, I think it is unnecessary to list all historic, economic, cultural, religious and other reasons why the common state of Serbia-Montenegro is the best solution for all citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. I also think it is unnecessary to list all the imperfections that the Constitutional Charter, which we are considering today, contains. However, I think we agree in one, that this vote on the Constitutional Charter can and will certainly have great importance for further processes in these areas. Voting on the constitutional charter is not only a mere decision whether or not we want to, in what community we want to live with Montenegro, but I think that this vote will have long-term consequences, depending on what it is, and on the answer to the question of what will happen to Serbia tomorrow. When we look at the political programmes of political parties represented in this parliament, we note that the vast majority stands and dominates the pledge for Yugoslavia, for the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. I think that's good. When we watch the performances of individual parliamentary groups that contain such specifics in their programme and who say they will vote against this charter, then I think they not only deviate from their own programme, but also seem to be a little dreary over the historical responsibility for Serbia's positions tomorrow. And from this pay phone some wrong thesis was launched as if the charter would legalise the secession of Montenegro and Milo Djukanovic. I don't think so. It is now possible that voting against this charter will take off any guilt mortgage from Milo Djukanovic, whose separatism has brought him as far as he has brought him and transferred him to Serbia, who will then, without anyone's support and without any guarantees, have to fight to prove his own identity and right to exist, and with very little chance that in such a struggle he will succeed. In addition to this, Milo Djukanovic has postponed a session of the Montenegrin parliament tomorrow, that is, after our session, waiting for the right answer from Belgrade, probably seeking to find himself in a sweet dilemma whether he will put a constitutional charter on the agenda or perhaps the famous Mesic phrase -- Yugoslavia -- no more, but this time thanks to the Serbian parliament and its decision. I don't think we should honor him in this way and that it's not good that he and his separatist policy rely on historicly irresponsible political forces in Serbia, in an attempt to take the blame off us. What do I think we can do as a lesson? The DOS has entered into the issue of the survival of Yugoslavia with the wrong thesis, politically constructed, that the issue of Yugoslavia's survival is a democratic issue, staring at the real reasons for bad relations between the two countries, ahead of Montenegrin separatism. After such a misdiagnosion, another wrong move follows -- that the decision to redefine relations with Montenegro is conducted exclusively by the DOS on the Serbian side and without the participation of others. The epilogue is a message we've heard today that this charter is, as they say, a political reality. I think it is the role of the government and the role of the ruling elites in general to create a political reality, not to make peace with it, to settle their shoulders and to represent it as a final act; and there is a serious problem, above all, with ruling elites in Serbia. I think we need to learn some lessons from that. I cannot help but remind myself and you; in January 2001, a year before the Belgrade Agreement, the SPS was given the initiative to launch talks on relations with the SRJ, to have the most important political state entities, both parliamentary and non-parliamentary political entities, and to try to regulate our relations in a way that is appropriate to the interests of both states' citizens. This initiative was rejected with that known pride of Doss, i.e. it was not even put to the consideration of this House, and I think that it was the right time and that one chance for this issue to really be properly conducted in this House, and that we should not now witness the final act. Here, before the end, the answer to the question to both yourself and you, since we are all now carrying part of the responsibility either way to decide to vote - does not by not voting the Constitutional Charter ensure the survival of Yugoslavia, does its development and protection of the interests of its citizens be ensured? If that's true, please, we all vote against that charter. But we all know the truth is on the other side. Unfortunately, the alternative to this charter is the current collapse of the state, the secession of Montenegro, the path of Serbia to uncertainty without allies, without any guarantee that it is a legal follower of Yugoslavia and that Kosovo and Metohija are in its composition. This directly generates Serbia's disintegration or at least makes it at least a significant challenge to its international position in the fight for international recognition and preservation of territorial integrity. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. I'm finishing and thank you. That is why I fear that if we approach Serbia's announced constitutional changes in the same way and with the same responsibility that there has been redefine relations between Serbia and Montenegro, we will be left without the constitution and without Serbia. God forbid that happens, because if that happens, we'll all be held accountable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25493	The word has a People's MP Momcilo Trajkovic, and the next declared word is MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25494	Dear MPs, this is a really very difficult moment and I quite understand the different political opinions and political views that are being held here, primarily because of the concerns where our country will go further, whether we will find the right formula for resolving our national and national issues and I fully understand these differences. I don't want to repeat some of the things that have been said, to elaborate more widely, but I want to speak a few words about what the new community in the aspect of Kosovo and Metohija means, and that's where I'm looking for an answer whether this charter is good or not, whether it meets minimum requirements or not? As you can see, the concept of today's state apparently succeeded more clearly. It failed because the power relationship in Serbia-Montenegro is such and this relationship of strength is obviously not the kind of state it wants to maintain. Those who have a position, who have legitimacy, who have a strong relationship in Serbia are trying to find the best solution, and regardless of the different views, no one can blame DOS and its representatives for not really wanting the best solution. But the best solution doesn't depend on one side only, in order to achieve the best, they have to agree on both sides. That's where I see an attempt to do something, and on the other hand we have what's called. the concept of an independent country. But all those who explain the survival of such a concept may not see that it can obviously not keep Kosovo and Metohija in its composition; so those who advocate independent Serbia also did not give an answer whether it is possible for Kosovo and Metohija to be an integral part of Serbia. I think this concept, which I am not very pleased with, provides minimum conditions for us to stop further disintegration in our country, so in Serbia, and even in the Balkans at all. Here is a key issue, in my opinion, when it comes to resolving the Kosovo-Methochial crisis, where the disintegration process will end. If Serbia-Montenegro, or Serbia-Montenegro, cannot find a common language, we will find it very difficult to justify our aspirations, despite knowing that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia very difficult to move that position internationally, it is very difficult to stop further disintegration processes. I see the charter as a chance for everyone. So there is a chance here: first, to establish, to improve the position of today's defined state, because when the relationship of power changes tomorrow, and I cheer to change the relationship of power by solidifying our common state; secondly, if it fails, it gives the chance to strengthen the position of our country, or Serbia, of independent Serbia, because no one will defend us from creating a new constitution to define our country so that tomorrow it can be independent; and thirdly, it gives the chance for Kosovo and Metohija to remain within our country. This is where the disintegration processes should be stopped. If disintegration is not stopped on the issue of creating a common state of Serbia-Montenegro, I do not see the possibility that we can continue to stop this process. It is very important for us, psychologically above all, that Serbia enters this community of states with its autonomous provinces, Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. It is important for the international community to accept it, and in this case the European Union, the Council of Europe and all those who support stopping disintegration here. If we get a position here, we have a chance to stop the disintegration of Kosovo and Metohija. Because I simply cannot see, although there are such forces that can, when the disintegration process is stopped in the Balkans, because they participated in stopping disintegration, after they continue to corrupt, that is, Kosovo and Metohija to the end of Serbia, that is, from the future common state. It is one fear in me that I must speak openly, but I hope that in further processes, we will prevent it, possibly by seeking a position for Kosovo and Metohija within this new common state, or community of states. However, as much as the chances of Kosovo being pushed there are, there is so much chance that we can keep Kosovo within Serbia. So that's the position, and we've found ourselves in a general confusion, where we can't define the proper ratio of power, where we can't protect our interests to the end, but we're getting a chance and we need to take advantage of it. As we speak, strange things happen in the field. In Kosovo, the Metohija is slow, but an independent state is certainly defined. We have to stop it. Our parliaments, all three, must start dealing with essential issues for this country, and that is to see how to stop the disintegration processes in Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, those who have been fierce for elections, who have not thought, and who have simply entered the variant to give the legitimacy of that country that is being created there today, have another story today, but regardless of these mistakes, we have to try to make things right and so we urgently have to stop these processes because there is a real disaster in the field. We Kosovo-Methohic Serbs understand the interest of our country. This interest is that it finds its place in the international community and we must support it, respecting above all the compromises that the state must negotiate, implement, in order to get to the best of positions. But these compromises cannot be below the minimum of our interest, which is that Kosovo cannot be an independent state. However, what we all forget, including in this House, and we need to talk about this urgently, is the naked existence of the people in Kosovo and Metohija. I fear that with the wrong policy or lack of engagement, we will contribute that when the time comes to discuss the status of Kosovo and Metohija, Kosovo and Metohija will be so few Serbs that it does not matter what status of Kosovo and Metohija will be, at least when it comes to us Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Because we want Kosovo and Metohija to be preserved in Serbia, but for those of us living down there to live and certainly to keep our positions through us. I've taken the obligation to mention three places that today, while we're discussing these big questions, they don't know what to do, they're at risk of security, of existence. I've been to Mussnik's these days. People haven't had anything to eat in months, nobody's seen them. Gjilan's church, that's where people live hard, too. A Serb was killed by terrorists, the family paid for the funeral, and I don't know if those expenses were covered. I was in Gojbula, where I was shaken when I heard the conversation of a parent who said - my child has been singing more and more Albanian songs lately, and less and less singing Serbian songs. It's no big deal that he sings Albanian songs, but it's terrible that he can't sing his own songs. We are responsible for this, and therefore I suggest that we urgently stop the process of disintegration, move towards the achievement of our rights, our positions and our interests within the limits of the possibilities and relations of the forces that are now being given to us. In that sense, I support this constitutional charter, because I see in it a chance for the common state. If that doesn't work, I see a chance for independent Serbia, and I see a chance for both of us in the other version, if we are wise and smart, Kosovo and Metohija to remain part of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25495	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25496	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, I think that these minutes and something that belongs to us as MPs is really miserable, so I would not even engage in any more extensive discussion. I'd just point out a few observations that I encountered during the study of this material. First of all, it was already clear by the Belgrade Agreement that all three constitutions, Serbia, Montenegro and of course the federal state were violated. We had plenty of time, given that the Belgrade Agreement was adopted on 14 March, in the meantime, to change the Constitution, and not to today, not to use some harsh expression, but on the Constitutional Committee, we simply assess how we will behave today in accordance with the Constitution, that there is no need for a qualified majority to adopt such an important act which is the basis for amending the Constitution the next day and I think there are a series of shortcomings, which could simply be removed. As the Constitutional Charter is done is a negative example, i.e. an example of how the constitution should not work, because if the constitutional commission works in a similar way we will never bring it in or we will not at least in the next ten years. On the other hand, we heard a few arguments, and in materials, of course, we didn't get anything. We listened to the argument through the media, but no one explained why the state's name had changed, what the interests of Serbs were, could we simply write and say that it was under pressure, that it was the desire of the international community. However, all that remains unsaid. The overvote protection mechanisms have been mentioned, which is, in fact, the return of the blockade and the return of the way in which the previous states broke down in this space. We are also obliged to bring the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which, on the one hand, means the recognition that these rights were not in this country, and on the other hand, is a condition that can always be used to blackmail this state, of course, from international factors, and to demand from it what is normally required. There were a number of other arguments, however, a very often mentioned expression is a historical opportunity, then a historical moment etc., and no one mentioned the expression of historical responsibility, which should most correspond to this moment, because simply Montenegrins have a very sober policy, they know what they want and they even asked that this three-year term run from March, not the adoption of this charter. So they're in a hurry to leave this community, and of course we're helping them with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25497	There is a word from MP Milan Radulovic, followed by MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25498	Dear People's MPs, today we have a mission to analyse and declare the proposal for a new constitution of the federal state. To this important, possibly the strongest work that this congregation council has done so far, the shadow has thrown out a midday discussion, which clearly questioned the legitimacy of this congregation. But anyway, we're having a debate, no matter how many of us are sitting here in the O.R. The Democratic Party of Serbia has never disputed the need to bring the new constitution of the federal state. Why was the new constitution necessary? It was necessary simply because the existing state was founded on the Yugoslav idea, and the Yugoslav idea has completely exhausted its potential as state-owned energy. She may still exist, partly as a cultural idea, but as a state-of-the-art idea she went into history. Such a situation has been exploited by the ruling structure in Montenegro to eliminate the Yugoslav idea and the common state, and to declare its goal of creating its independent Montenegro and also to direct Serbia through full sovereignty. This tendency, I think, is absolutely anti-history. Anti-history is because the common state of Serbia-Montenegro is a historical natural creation -- if there are historical natural creations, and there are, because history has not only its logic and its own flow, but also its own internal nature. It is a natural creation not only because Serbia-Montenegro represents a geographical, cultural, ethnic, religious and ideal unity but also because it has achieved its unity through history. Both Serbia and Montenegro were created as independent states as an expression of the historic aspirations of the Serbian people in the Balkans; both countries were created, therefore, on the Serbian national idea; and both countries were recognised as such in the previous century. Both countries transferred their national idea to a Yugoslav idea as a new state-of-the-art energy; and both countries remained in the community as long as the idea was current. In the end, both countries designed their common future, declaring their common goal, which is to accept a state-owned idea, ideology, a value system that is articulated in the creation of united European national states, united either in the Union, or in the alliance. So all of this allowed Serbia-Montenegro to be understood as a completely natural state, as a country that is a natural form of historical flow. On what basis is this constitutional charter made? It was made in the preamble, based on the Belgrade Agreement. It seems better to me that the preamble also lists three historical facts: that Serbia-Montenegro is formed as an independent state on the Serbian state-owned idea, that they lived together on the basis of a Yugoslav state-owned idea and that they jointly design their future based on ideas that are now in place in a united Europe, namely Europe of united national states. We have heard here from Mr. Prime Minister that the Constitutional Charter is the same as the Belgrade Agreement. In other words, the Constitutional Commission has mixed this cake with us from the tests prepared by Belgrade's agreement. However, he used one other picture, he said the Belgrade Agreement was prepared by three bricks. You see, when a man is optimistic, when he's enthusiastic, when he believes in himself, he can do anything, so he can build a state building of three bricks. But a joke aside. The constitutional charter completely fails the spirit of the Belgrade Agreement. The Belgrade agreement is designed to create a common state that will strongly both the federal unit and the other one to withdraw, as a locomotive, towards the economic, cultural, economic, social, institutional and political system that we have today in the most developed Western-European states that are members of the European Union. Did we get that? No, I don't. We have received here a state that is not a locomotive that drags us to Europe, but a state that is hostage to the two governments, a state that depends entirely on the government's free will in Podgorica and the government in Belgrade. On the principle of ensuring equality between the two federal units, there are built-in mechanisms for blocking the common state. Even what is the responsibility of the common state: foreign affairs, foreign-economic affairs and the court, are the first to guarantee the inability of the federal state, and then these possibilities have been suspended by installing new positions in the same members that enable the blocking of all these functions. So we got something we didn't ask for, something that failed the spirit of the Belgrade Agreement. We got something that really doesn't get us anywhere near Europe. It is much closer to the European state-of-the-art logic of the current constitution, but the one offered here. Why is it closer? No one has ever been admitted into the European Union as an alliance of states, and we here have something that is basically defined as an alliance of states. No state has ever been admitted into the European Union that has no free potential and free opportunity to create its foreign policy and participate in foreign and foreign-economic traffic as a sovereign state. Here, however, all these functions of the federal state are conditioned by the agreement to be given by the Member States. In the end, I have one more question. Was there really a good will here to implement the Belgrade Agreement? Let's not doubt he did, but he wasn't applied to this. We are not really approaching Europe with this document. The only odds are that if the Constitutional Charter is adopted, economic logic will prevail. Economic logic will make it clear that there are no two economic systems here. In Serbia-Montenegro, there is hardly one, chaotic, parting. These are two countries that have approximately the same degree of underdevelopment. Montenegro has declared its customs rate with the intention of identifying its state-of-the-art competences. In the same way, he can introduce a voice to use tomorrow and declare it a special language. It's not. So, economic logic will very easily bring these two economic systems into line, and political logic, I think, and our participation in international traffic, will constantly expose us to the European Union's demands that the state be entrusted with new competences and that this country is indeed one real federal state that can function. When's that gonna be? In two years, in 20 or 30 years, that's a special question. But in any case, there's nothing that's historically natural to set any deadlines. There are countries in the European Union that are struggling with separatism that are much more fundamental than Montenegro, which is based on ethnic and religious differences. Did someone in the countries of the European Union set a deadline and said, "If in two years you do not choke your separatism, you will be expelled from the European Union." It's not. Therefore, it is unnatural for us to set those deadlines, and they will not apply. The joint state of Serbia-Montenegro is a historic process that began in the 19th century, in the past, and that will no doubt continue in this century, regardless of how or whether it will be, or not, the constitutional charter will be applied. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25499	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and then the MP Bratoljub Janackovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after eight months of dizziness and a constant journey from Belgrade to Podgorica, we have before us the Constitutional Charter. Based on this constitutional charter, one state needs to disappear. The federal state will not be reorganized as many say, primarily DOS leaders. Simply, the common state will shut down. After all, the whole world knows that the charter is brought only because the United States and the European Union want to postpone the secession of Montenegro, in order to obtain more favourable conditions for the final separation of Cosmeta and perhaps the Vojvodina itself. That's why this quasi-state community is armed for three years. So, according to the system, that this is temporary, so that at one point everything breaks down to Serbia, Cosmet, Montenegro and possibly Vojvodina. The entire constitutional charter has been conceived since the beginning so that this godless state union can't function at all. The constitutional charter sort of accepts the high degree of separation of Montenegro and legalises the upfront secession of Montenegro after three years, and it can be shorter. There are numerous illogicalities and legal non-sensions when it comes to the content of this document. The Constitutional Charter foresees two separate economic systems and only their harmonisation. Two economic systems have their own banks, their own national currencies, their own fiscal systems and their own customs areas. Of course, the common market does not exist without the customs union. With its own customs areas, Serbia-Montenegro is not in the common market. They're only in the free trade zone. This is the situation we have -- for example, our relationship with Russia, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Hungary. So there's no need for a state community. Why does the European Union even agree to one such term and one specific, we can ask ourselves, why the common market. Because the European Union knows very well that this very document will neither be a single country nor there will be a single market. The Constitutional Charter also foresees neither the governor of the National Bank nor the central bank, nor the finance minister, and in the Statute of the IMF and the World Bank it is clear that any state can represent, at least in this regard, the governor or finance minister. Of course, the IMF and the World Bank will not adapt their statutes to Serbia-Montenegro. Just when it comes to a set of these questions, when you ask the question of what is this state that doesn't have a national currency, it doesn't have its own bank, one of our prominent professors says - that's no state. The Council of Ministers is a meeting of five ministers. It's a government that doesn't rule. Ministers are also not ministers, simply, they neither lead nor establish politics, but only coordinate the competent ministries of the Member States. A special nonsensus is tied to two ministries, the foreign policy ministry and defence, where ministers change to half their mandate. What authority will one minister have when he knows that this deputy of his will arrive in two years and be his boss, or when decisions are made on the council of ministers and in case of a tie 3:3 will be a crucial vote of the president, but only on condition that one minister from another Member State votes for such a decision. Of course, this is just one example of paralysis and great difficulty in making decisions. It's just that everything in this charter is full of absurds. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro is an unusual creation, armed for three years and has smaller state facilities and powers than the SRJ had. The basic provisions, certainly, were made primarily by the dictatorship of the West, according to the dictatorship of those who destroyed us, killed during NATO bombing in 1999. They're forcing us here something that's not in the world. There are no such legal solutions in the world. For example, there is a Article 9 where there is talk of minority and human rights, about individual, collective, civil freedoms, where it is said that it cannot be limited or reduced. All responsible and serious states have built-in legal mechanisms that these rights can be limited in certain conditions: so, under the conditions of separatist abuses, armed rebellions, terrorist acts; all serious states have built this into their legal systems. America brought something like this after 9/11, Russia after the attack of Chechen, Spain has such provisions, Great Britain has very often a direct administration set up in Northern Ireland. Why did they impose this on us when it was not in their highest legal and political acts? Because it is possible for certain riots, terrorist activities to take place in southern Serbia, and we will not be able to react on the basis of this charter. Of course, there are different parities and rotations about representation in the European Union, the United Nations. All this clearly says there's nothing from the common state. At the very least, this is a one-provision. It's not a stable state. This is just one framework for Serbia to swallow formally-legal and factual loss of Kosovo and Metohija more easily. Everyone here is calling for the European Union, the Council of Europe, as if by entering (although no one argues that they should enter the Council of Europe, or the Union) all problems are solved. That's not true. A colleague from Social Democracy earlier, I think, was saying that we would join the European Union in 2013. It's "not a smoother donkey to green grass", if it's all about the European Union and if it's all a cure for our troubles entering the European Union. It is clear that participants and signatories of this Belgrade agreement signed something they had no right to. All the signatories had no mandate for such a thing, to decide because they did not bear constitutional authority. It is clear to us, and Djukanovic, and Filip Vujanovic, and Kostunica, and Djindjic and Labus simply could not create any better document. Djukanovic is a convicted separatist, a man who came on the wings of Serbian pride and dignity to power, in 1997 to let it all down and to be a hidden separatist until October 5th and opened from October 5th. He and Filip Vujanovic made it clear that none of the state union will be and that their main goal is an independent and independent Montenegro. Kostunica, it's quite clear, and no offense from present colleagues here, can solve any crucial problem in the state. Zoran Djindjic and Labus are primarily exponents of Western politics and they accept all the dictatorships imposed on them. They may have taken some major commitments on October 5th. All of this clearly says that this act, the highest state and political act, will also not lead towards resolving the most important state issues. Finally, it is quite clear that after two and a half years, the DOS authorities are in one of the unexplainable situations in both economic and political and social terms, and unfortunately in the case of the most large state issues that are related to the adoption of this constitutional charter. And that is the best words of Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts President Dejan Medakovic, who says -- a great national drama is being held in the country whose consequences are not even conscious, and the owners of the new political elite are only the episodeists in the national drama. We are deeply convinced that the president of the Serbian Academy is quite right. We're not voting for the Constitutional Charter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25501	Bratoljub Janackovic has the word, followed by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25502	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the Constitutional Charter of Serbia-Montenegro. It abolishes the state of Yugoslavia while establishing new relations between the state of Serbia and the state of Montenegro. Two acts in one document. In my view and in the New Democracy's view, we have before us an act on the real union, or an act that the nearest ones determine relations that are being established. However, in an act supported by the European Union, the name of the Serbian state is mentioned and its political and economic capacity is assumed. The charter, of course, has its purpose and condition, which I'll discuss later. The very act of defining relations with Montenegro raises the question of the historic, political and general purpose of adopting this document of this content. The state-political elite of the Serbian state, we MPs and citizens of Serbia, reminding ourselves of political developments in Serbia's political history, must ask ourselves a question - why, always with delay and with pressures, this time the European Union, we accept the state reasoning that comes from the affirmation of Serbia's state and we bring, only to regulate Serbia-Montenegro's relations, a document on the real union of two practically sovereign states, when the importance of such a document is no longer crucial to these two countries in some historical sense. To underline, simply, for Serbia the documents of such content, if we had a slightly healthier political resonance of political elites and statesmen, if we had offered them on other occasions and historical waterworks, we would certainly have had a more beneficial effect on the overall state of the state and people of Serbia. What historic cataclysms would have avoided if monarch Alexander and Karadjordjevic had stayed on this model and first defined Serbia's state interests in 1918, in a crisis in 1921 or 1931, and beyond 1939? What would wise Stojan Protic, the first Prime Minister of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians today, say, who opposed the theory of three names for the same people and integrated Yugoslavia? What to say about the idea of drowning state identity in the Yugoslavia, which, until the political identity of Serbia was completely broken and political parties asphyxiated, were carried out by unfortunate radicals from the People's Radical Party, the Yugoslav Radical Community of Stojadinovic and supporters of the king's six-year dictatorship in 1929. According to their model of drowning and losing Serbia's state identity and lack of understanding of historical opportunities, Joseph Broz's methods in federal Yugoslavia for limiting Serbia's statehood really gave Serbia a better chance. Dearly beloved, I belonged, and now I am part of the political generation of the founders of New Democracy who, with part of their political generation, have now gathered together in the liberals of Slovenia in early 1990, tried to affirm the idea of a confederation or a real union on the ground of the former Yugoslavia, which also came from the statehood of Serbia. I am convinced that the historic cataclysm of the Serb people would be smaller, if not avoided, and that Serbia would already be in the community of the countries of Europe. However, as a fate, we were also accompanied by this time-to-time historical watershed, Yugoslavism, the absence of political democracy, the lack of a sense of state identity of Serbia, the absence of a sense of reality, of nationalism for which no one had understanding, of national ideas that were announced in the matrix of civil society, capitalism and Euro-Atlantic integration. At the time, it was clear, and in practice and brutally confirmed -- the Yugoslavism around Slobodan Milosevic cost us dearly. Within 10 years, Serbia and its citizens spent an entire century. Dearly beloved, I only wanted to mention with bitterness that we have often in history, and this document before us proves this, the state reasoning that comes from respect for the statehood and sovereignty of Serbia used with delay and not the best occasion. So today, this constitutional charter that establishes a real union of Serbia-Montenegro falls at a time when the building of a more powerful European Union, like the European State, is being completed, which defines through the Convention on the Constitutional Charter of Europe: the citizen of Europe, the Parliament of Europe, the government of Europe, the army of Europe, the police of Europe, the economy of Europe, the judicial system of Europe... The construction of this Union is being questioned by both the MPs and the state elite of Serbia -- what are our main objectives of state policy? If this is Serbia a member of the Union of the countries of Europe, then it contains the European Union and the measure of our commitment to the real union of Serbia-Montenegro, including an assessment of the time duration of the Union. If Serbia is seeking a Union of European states, it must assume its national army's role in the European army, and thus limit its classical sovereignty. Serbia must assume the acceptance of other European Union rules that are applied directly in the economy and legal system. Serbia-Montenegro's Charter today, it should be said, creates a time position for the European Union to strengthen mechanisms and create instruments for a sustainable European presence, to form its army, police, judiciary, and police, prior to the decommissioning of national conflict strategies in the Balkans. These are all the interests of the European Union. But the charter also gives Serbia a chance to strengthen Serbia as a state of civil rights, European standards, capitalism, open society. The Charter obliges us to turn to the state of Serbia in the service of Serbian citizens. All the ideas of the great Yugoslavia so far have not made us happy. I would like, on account of this Charter and the establishment of the Union, to ask representatives of some political forces in Serbia to stop convincing us that all classical functions of the Serbian state in Cosmet are possible. The state of Serbia cannot accept such disguised scenarios to preserve those state forms that have run over time and which, unfortunately, have been defeated at Cosmet. What can Serbia and the sea do? Serbia must and can address and impose open issues of Cosmeta itself, with its own initiative. With this charter, Serbia needs to create all the capacities it needs. If Serbia understands its European walk well and preserve its identity through Europe, then its national strategy, when it comes to Cosmet, must rest on the development of Cosmet as a special region of Europe with high autonomy, with direct, stable and permanent presence of the European Union, its security forces, police and justice. Such autonomy includes the regionalisation of Cosmet himself, as well as high collective rights for ethnic communities and their rights to manage the community. The openness of Cosmeta for Serbia, but also for Albania, can only be ensured by the agreement between Albania, the European Union and Serbia, which defines the content and capacities of the so-called. Independence of Cosmeta, i.e. "the limits of the use of these capacities". The new democracy has no objection to such an agreed capacity being integrated into the community of the countries of Europe, but also warns that an attempt to create a large Albania or a community of Albanian states, on the one hand, and the requirement to restore all classical functions of Serbia to Cosmet, on the other hand, inevitably have a partition of Cosmeta or a new war. I hope that the custody of the European Union is above this command at the same time as a sign that Europe understands that a new war drama in the Balkans can only be avoided if the European Union exchanges interests with Serbia, a stereotype of Serbs as on-call culprits is released, balances its position, and indeed takes responsibility for the permanent performance of Serbia's state's vital functions in Cosmet. Otherwise, it will not be a defeat of Serbia, but a defeat of the European Union and of civilization values. The adoption of the Constitutional Charter before Serbia sets an important goal - Serbia a member of the United States of Europe; Serbia's army in the European Army; Serbia's police in the European police; Serbian citizens and their rights under the protection of the United Europe Constitution. In the end, I express my confidence that these all painful illusions of Yugoslavia have collapsed and that the state of Serbia is paved its way towards the united states of Europe, which is both the goal of New Democracy and our family of European liberals. Ladies and gentlemen, this parliament is responsible for the European state of Serbia. That is why New Democracy MPs will support Serbia-Montenegro's Constitutional Charter, as they view it only as an act of recognition and renewal of Serbia's statehood and as a framework for co-operation between the two, in a European sense, independent states. I therefore call on other MPs to overcome the rivalries of daily politics and act as statesmen who understand European processes, live in accordance with their time and, of course, vote for the adoption of the Charter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25503	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, aware that DOS would never give me the right to a replica after the predecessors, I report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, paragraph 1 - "the speakers are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly". Namely, I do not believe in the desire for the criticism to be transferred to today's radicals, but with the peorative mention of the name of the radicals, one false thing was that the People's Radical Party, meaning our predecessor, and then Jerez, the Yugoslav Radical Community, was to blame for the Yugoslavia that, as a monster, hit us. So you wouldn't blame us for the monsters, just one historical fact to bring out - a common state, formed after 1918, was called the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, until the death of Nikola Pasic. King Alexander I was not allowed to re-name the state and was not allowed to propose to be called Yugoslavia until Nikola Pasic died again, thanks to King Alexander Ikarajordjevic. It's a historical lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25505	You have no formal right to a replica or to a violation of the Rules of Procedure by this article. As for historical untruths, and your reaction, then it was necessary for there to be true information in your presentation, and I really ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word is by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25506	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly is today considering the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. It is known that the United Nations is educated by a legal act called the Charter. It is also known that the United Nations is not a single state, but an organisation with many member states. In our history, in the Middle Ages, the charter was solemn governmental apparitions, which confer some privileges or possessions on prominent institutions or individuals. Since I suppose, hopefully justifiably, not to return to the Middle Ages, we must determine who gave us this charter, so who is the ruler and what have we, as subjects, received from this charter? Today's ruling, according to the SS, is undoubtedly legally elected power in Montenegro and an oligarchy called DOS in Serbia. They pushed us through this charter, after nine months of birth pain, which leaves all issues open, no problem has been solved, which found to be the inevitable break-up between Serbia and Montenegro after three years, and finally, the worst -- which makes Serbia "atrocity", Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. In Article 5. The Charter argues that Serbia-Montenegro's territory is the territory of the Member States. At the same time, the Charter preamble states that Kosovo and Metohija are currently under the rule of the international administration, in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. We all know that Resolution 1244 speaks of Kosovo and Metohija as part of Yugoslavia, which just by adopting this charter, ladies and gentlemen, ceases to exist. It is obvious that Kosovo and Metohija will not return to the composition of a newly created state of Serbia, when and if the international administration ever leaves. Our DOS ruler does not think about this, nor does he allow a conversation on the subject. They only have one preoccupation -- how to grab as many functions as possible in the future state community. Articles 12 and 13 discuss the common market and freedom of movement. These are extraordinary principles according to the Soviet Union, but in Serbia-Montenegro's relations they have not long been in force. Whoever travels to Montenegro saw customs at Brodarev's. Countries that have different coins and different customs rates cannot have a common market. The only thing they can have in common is smuggling, cigars, fuel, weapons, and, unfortunately, lately, people, all under the control of a group of people, just like so far. According to the provisions of this charter, Article 7 will no longer have the right to vote in Serbia. I guess it's at least 300,000 voters. If we add them together with 800,000 voters who are listed as surplus in the voter's list, it comes down to the voter's body in Serbia being around five million. The Charter further states that the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is single-handed and that 126 MPs, from Serbia, are 91 MPs, from Montenegro 35. In Article 2. The Charter has been declared a principle of equality, and already in Article 20, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of inequality of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro has been established, because one MP from Serbia has 71,000 voters and only 12,000 MPs from Montenegro. Practically, an MP from Serbia will need about 30,000 voters for the new elections, and only 4,000-5,000 votes from Montenegro. That's why I think the new federal assembly should have at least 300 MPs, 31 of whom would be from Montenegro. That would be approximately proportional. The same article set another trap for the Serb part of the assembly. In fact, the assembly makes decisions by majority of the votes, of the total number of MPs, by voting for the decision and by the majority of the total number of MPs from each Member State. So 18 Montenegrins will practically decide everything. They actually have the right to veto and can judge the entire congregation and literally hold them hostage. It will take at least 35 large apartments in Belgrade, will need rooms in Hayat, it will take a bunch of euros to make the assembly work in general. The provisions on the election of Serbia-Montenegro presidents are seeing new election games on a continuous basis. It is predicted that the assembly will disband and discuss new elections if two attempts to elect a president are failed, i.e. Proposed candidate for Serbia-Montenegro president. What if this new assembly doesn't elect a president -- elections again. It all depends, therefore, on those 18 famous delegates, i.e. An MP from Montenegro. In voting for the list of candidates for the council of ministers, the parliament is again threatened with the disbanding unless the list is agreed within 60 days. Although the Charter, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet been adopted, the DOS has already appointed ministers, so Goran Svilanovic, a man who himself admits that he has not had much success in policymaking in the past two years. The surrender of Prevlaka to Croatia is only one of the indicators that our foreign policy should not be conducted and will be entered in black letters in the history of our statehood. For the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that Mr. Rasim Ljajic, who has absolutely had absolutely no success in his work, and this is just an opportunity for him to pass some correctional exam, which he certainly will not pass. We also have a very vague proposal for a military minister. Of course, I'm not talking about who it's about, you know that. However, this arrangement has already violated Article 35(3). The Charter, which reads: "Foreign and Defence Minister candidates are from different Member States". There, ladies and gentlemen, with how much seriousness and expertise DOS has joined writing this charter. The one-year adoption of the Constitutional Charter is its goal of buying as much time as possible and distracting the people from the unpleasant reality. In Article 65. The Charter is said to be binding on Member States to bring their constitutions within six months. It's another empty story and a new vulnerabilities forever. The DOS is actually planning to bring Serbia's constitution to two years in full, in order to delay the elections maximum. But that's their vain hope. An angry, hungry and determined people are already knocking on their door. It's time to establish a new power, at the request of the electoral body. It will be just as it was in Leskovec and Despotovac, in local elections, in Ub and in Barajev, Raznja, Piroth and Pozharevec. There is a catastrophic election defeat of DOS and DS, and victory of the opposition and somewhere the DSS. There, ladies and gentlemen, should and should seek a new assembly and government, and DOS will be just an ugly past, an example of a reminder to our people. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, the people of Serbia, according to the SSP MPs, need neither the Constitutional Charter nor the new constitution, but elections at all levels, for the people to gain power at their own request, hope for a better life and biodiversity itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25507	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric. The Soviet Parliament group has wasted their time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25508	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, when we discussed in this assembly in early April of last year the starting grounds for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations were said that the Constitutional Commission would make such a constitutional charter whose provisions would provide a functioning state union. What we are now offered - we have been offered a document that bears all features of the independence of the two states, except for international recognition. The SPS advocates, as it has done so far, to preserve the common state. The SPS believes that both Yugoslavia as a state provided the best, and now provides, the realisation of the interests of the Serbian and Montenegrin people and of all citizens living in Serbia-Montenegro. Under the name of Yugoslavia, we were known and recognized in the world. Why is the name changing - so we are really like Slovenians in the south of Slovenia's space. The proposed Constitutional Charter concludes that it wants to break Yugoslavia at all costs, so that it does not eventually become the Pyemont of the Unification of the Southern Slovenians again in some future period. Serbia's Socialist Party is for integration with full respect for Serbia-Montenegro's equality. Integration must not be damaged on either economic or political terms. The Socialist Party is in line with European principles, however, what we are offered is not leading to integration, but disintegration. Gentlemen of the DOS, until you came to power, you kept saying that by leaving President Slobodan Milosevic's office you would easily and quickly resolve relations with Montenegro, that you would preserve the common state. You never wanted to admit that the problem was much more complex. What is it now that is offered, and is not a Federation, is not a confederate, is neither a union, some loose alliance between Serbia and Montenegro? It's more like a union of sovereign states, some contracted formation for a trial of three years. There's a model, some hybrid that's not famous and doesn't exist in international theory or in practice, there's no such model of an organized state in the world. The SPS respects reality, force does not need and cannot address these issues. It is clear that the state community can only be created by the goodwill of Serbia-Montenegro's citizens. I stress, by the will of the citizens, not by the will of the political elites. The writing of these documents was not part of the public of Serbia or Montenegro, neither the profession nor the science has been consulted. The people are left in an insecure position of expectation, and it is known that the agreement is made behind the back of the people. Initial grounds outside any constitutional authority were signed by the leaders of Serbia-Montenegro's ruling parties. Who asked the citizens if they wanted to live in the common state? I will make observations from the Prijepolje municipality, which is mostly bordered with Montenegro. In the municipality, Serbs and Muslims live in about the same number, with fewer Montenegrins and members of other peoples. The vast majority of these citizens, regardless of nationality, express dissatisfaction by creating an opportunity for these two republics to be completely separated within three years. In the area, it is markedly unfavorable to see the existence of police, customs and tax ramps on the apple, on the way to Pljevi and Brodarev, on the way to the White Pole and Podgorica. Too strong are relatives, friendly, neighbourly and other ties of all citizens in the area with neighbours from Montenegro. Why didn't you have more patience to reconfigure the situation on the ground? Wasn't the referendum a better solution for citizens to decide, is this not going in the opposite direction than European integration? We keep two coins, two monetary systems, two customs systems, we have two different external trade systems, we have two market systems, two tax systems, two banking systems and no single economic space. All this says that we will literally have two economically sovereign states. Has such solutions provided support to truly preserve the common state? After all, it is no surprise that these days we heard Montenegro's first leader continue to declare that this is a transitional period, that Montenegro wants to be an independent and internationally recognised state. Well, how does our great friend Javier Solana, who bombed us at the same time, look at all this? On behalf of the European Union, he signed the basics for redecorating Serbia-Montenegro's relations, he was the supervisor of the constitution's creation. Mr Javier Solana actually creates the fate of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. Would he sign something like that if it were his Spain? Of course, Javier Solana does not intend to settle in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. It's our misfortune that DOS allowed us to fall to the fact that they're taking us to their own house to be arranged by someone on the side. How to secure a functional state union now, how to bring the economic system into line and create a single economic space, how the agreement on funding the federal budget will be respected, how to ensure in international financial relations that due to one republic's debt delays, the consequences are not borne by the other republic. We've already had this on two occasions for the last few months when Montenegro was late in paying off certain loans, amounts that have been achieved to pay more dynamically under an agreement with the Paris Club. How will the Supreme Command System be coordinated in the military? Who will decide the individual unspeakable, ambiguous and stretching provisions of this charter? Will Serbia-Montenegro's permanent views continue to make the main arbiters a foreigner? I'd like to hear acceptable answers to all the questions asked today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25509	The People's Messenger Dragan the Martian has the word, and then the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25510	Dear viewers, respected citizens of Serbia, at the very beginning, I will take a brief look at the morning presentation of the President of the Republic of Serbia. He was appalled, as he thought of Kosovo and Metohija abruptly the other day, so today the citizens of Serbia remembered and about their daunting and nervousness, he said then - yes, I am very nervous because... What you're getting mad at is the subject of exposure to the Prime Minister of the Republic. So he suddenly remembered that Serbian citizens in Serbia are suffering, and why they suffer -- because someone puts the plungers back into the wheels of the revolution after a few decades, and that revolution, therefore, is implementing the reforms, but there's someone who has these reform processes distracting them; and, what you need to do, what is the solution -- you need to go to sleep, to sleep, to withdraw. I agree with Mr Djindjic; here is a concrete proposal: if he is brave in action, as he is brave in words, if he believes in the citizens, if he is behind the will of the citizens, let him call the elections, and let them go to sleep in political retirement, let the one whom Serbian citizens claim in the elections, and until then, we will try, unlike him, to build a state today, and not to degrade the state. Dear viewers, seven months after the deadline set by the Belgrade Agreement here in front of this group of several MPs, and something so-called. People's MPs, before the National Assembly, which for months now is not a legitimate body of this state, are the Constitutional Charter and the law on its implementation. For months, these solutions were addressed to the public, and the public can understand little of anything, there has been a debate on the specific problems that have been raised from the work of the Constitutional Commission and on the solutions found in these acts that have been adopted today in this people's illegal assembly. I'm not going to deal with the details, I'm not going to deal with certain provisions, there's a lot of arguments here today that prove that the Constitutional Charter is a very controversial act, and that the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter is an absolutely unacceptable act for anyone who knows what the state is and anyone who wants to build a state, who actually cares about the state. A lot of this has been said, it is interesting, perhaps paradoxically, that the arguments in favour of these facts were also made by those who advocated the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, but also by those who advocated Serbia's independence. It is not clear to me, but it will certainly be clear to the citizens of Serbia who are telling the truth here and who is not telling the truth; at least for this short time, in these two years they could distinguish between politicians acting on Serbia's political scene and on this basis. So we will count ourselves at the end, in the vote; if these acts are adopted, they will be adopted by voices bought, illegal, illegally held in parliament by MPs and votes, interestingly, those who advocate Serbian independence. Of course, all that will remain written down for history, it will remain written down, and who has stood up for this state community, who has been building this state and who has been putting up with it all this time. In short, I will return in 2000, a year of hope, promises, expectations, trust, and then you, citizens of Serbia, gave a voice to those you believed in back then. In the elections and only in the citizens' elections, they determine whom they will grant legitimacy and political power, competence to exercise, as my colleague often says, public affairs or to exercise power. In 2000, with the hope and will of being surprised by the hope of changing one regime, which was then considered by the right to be suppressed, suppressed and poor, they entrusted that power with a broad coalition, a coalition of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, which today does not exist. People who were gathered in that coalition as they were, honest and dishonest political and any other past, capable and incompetent, left-wing and right-wing, and those who were unfiltered, undefined, as the people would say, neither smell nor smell, honest and corrupt, co-workers of the State Security Service and those who were subject to review and follow-up, analysis of state-security associates -- all of this was gathered at one point, and it was good that it was gathered, on the contrary to the previous regime. What have you and those or what have we, you and those gathered together then, suggested and promised and on what basis have we received the trust of the citizens? It has been promised to make Serbia a democratic state, that institutions will be built and strengthened, that justice and justice will be returned to Serbia, that the only guidance in the exercise of power will be the interest of citizens and the state, that the common state, that is, the topic, Serbia-Montenegro, will be preserved too quickly, that the process of disintegration and changes of borders in the Balkans will be interrupted, that we will include Serbia in European integration processes. In two years, it was done the opposite of what was promised. In two years, completely naturally this government, today's government in Serbia has lost its legitimacy. It seemed the opposite of promises when it comes to the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. There was talk and talk and talk here today at this pay phone, and it's about Serbia's independence, and it's about acts that establish a common state. It seemed and seemed actually different. This is why today, before this illegal National Assembly, there are constitutional statutes and the Law on its implementation as acts that are not even nearly as they could and should have been to be based on solid, reliable foundations, in order to enable Serbia-Montenegro's relations to be really harmonised over time and to strengthen the state community over time. The Belgrade agreement, signed in spring 2002, brought together Serbia-Montenegro's actual separation. Mr. Djindjic said today that he was uninformed, they were doing it behind his back, hiding it from him. So, Mr. Djindjic was uninformed that the agreement was under way. I am not surprised that it is, because when the agreement was signed, it was caught by panic, both him and Mr Djukanovic; and since then, since the signing of the Belgrade Agreement, which has left a broad basis for the construction of a common state of Serbia-Montenegro, the process of destruction and the still unborn state union begins. As a result, the writing of the Constitutional Charter has lasted this long, which is why the Constitutional Charter has narrowed down the foundations set by the Belgrade Agreement, and therefore the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter is such an act which, in its essence, cancels both the Constitutional Charter and the Belgrade Agreement. Mr. Djindjic and Mr. Djukanovic are the politicians in Serbia-Montenegro who will prefer to see Serbia-Montenegro as a separate, divided mafia state, rather than as a common state in which democracy and rule of law will rule; these are the interests they have been representing in the work of the Constitutional Commission for ten months, and this is why we have acts like this that cannot be based on a valid state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25511	Mr. Martian, on the basis of article 101, I give you a warning about the insult you've inflicted on the prime ministers of the two states.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25512	What did you say, Mrs. Micic?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25513	I warned you because you insulted the representatives of the Serbian and Montenegrin authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25514	I just said that Mr Djindjic and Mr Djukanovic would rather see Serbia-Montenegro as separate mafia states than as a common state, democratic and legal. I don't see what's offensive, it's facts. So, this way is not a violation and collapse of the common state before it was even created and born, either because of the influence of those political parties that are openly and directly favouring independent Montenegro in Montenegro, nor because of the influence, preserve God, even less, those political parties that advocate independent Serbia, to isolate Serbia and its constitution as an independent state, so that they are remembered in public for something other than incompetence in the doing of ministerial work. Of course, not because of that, but because of what I said. This country, today an existing one, and we'll see after a month whether the new one will be built, looks very much like Chicago in the '30s. And that was about the division of territory, the division of interesting zones, the division of jobs; and this is about something like that, except in the '30s in Chicago, it's better to have alcohol, and here it's better to have cigarettes, Moldovans, drugs, asphalting (and it's a little bit now in stalemate) and some other jobs, which I guess are easier to do when the common state is not firm, but it's about countries where the authorities are usurping the entire free state. If the Constitutional Charter and the Law on its implementation are adopted, and there is every opportunity that, when the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is set up, its future will depend most on who will lead it: those who truly aim to preserve the state community and strengthen that community or those that I was talking about here today, who are actually seeking to part, break up that common state. How are we going to solve this? As Elliot Ness dealt with in Chicago, in Serbia, Elliot Ness will be a republican election and the problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25515	The People's Messenger Pal Shandor has the word, and the next one declared for the word is the messenger of the people, Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25516	Dear colleagues and colleagues, just a few notes with this debate today, if you please. I'm not particularly concerned about the tone of the debate, because I think it's quite civilized and it's moving within the framework of a parliamentary debate. Sometime she was emotional, if she thought of Mr. Prime Minister, and I think he gave one of the best speeches in the Assembly, and when he was an MP and when he was like this. If it bothers anyone as a tone of inappropriate debate, then I can think of anything, but let's just say it doesn't. Otherwise, I think the situation is quite delicate and we all feel the burden of responsibility, that the Serbian people are really facing a crucial issue -- how to go on, and that this constitutional charter, of course, provides one of the possible answers with which some are satisfied and some are not. The minority, in my opinion, should not normally interfere with what is the political will of the majority. I'm not gonna do that, of course. I will vote for both the Charter and the law on its implementation. But I'd just like to say a few notes. I think that, in general, delaying the whole problem and solving the situation for three years, i.e. no one wants to take the risk of telling the people that the common states are gone. We'll see what happens after those three years. I'd be happy if my prognosis wasn't right and right. On the charter itself, I think that the defensive political move that continues on the whole series of defensive political moves that Serbia has implemented since the beginning of the collapse of the SFRJ, from the idea of confederation, for the asymmetrical Federation, for various other possibilities and occasions, when we could have played a little better and more successfully. Let us remember and remember the moment when it was announced that Xanter and Delor had delayed their visit to the then SFRY, which was on the threshold of admission to European integration, and they never came again, or their successors. I would like to hear soon this news that in a few days the representatives of the European Community will come and that this situation will enter into some more peaceful waters. Otherwise, I'd like to refer to Articles 8 and 9. I don't quite understand how the Constitutional Charter can have its charter. This may be a technical question and a question for lawyers, but it should have a Charter of Minority Rights, which is part of the Constitutional Charter, which is part of Article 8. Of course, I think it's rather disputable that the Charter can have its own charter. I think that these two acts should be adopted at the same time, that is, we also discussed the Charter of the Rights of National Minorities, that is, today in addition to the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter. Otherwise, in Article 9, I think it's a pretty bad formulation and it doesn't mean God knows what. Item 2 says, "Achieving the level of human and minority rights, individual and collective, and civil freedoms cannot be reduced." What does that mean, please, in a situation where these rights are rather low, when the state is not loyal to you. I will show one single example: the EPS accounts all of you or most of you in Serbian, Cyrillic cannot understand, and how Hungarians, Romanians, Russian or Slovaks will understand them when they do not receive them in their native language. Therefore, if the state requires me to be loyal and to pay for the electricity, then at least it has to explain to me how it counts. And if we protect this level, it's bad. Mr. Handja, the board member of DZVM in Zrenjanin, asked why the name of Serbia's MUP in Zrenjanin was not written in Hungarian. He received a strange answer, that the seat of the MUP in Belgrade, in Vračar municipality, and that Vračar municipality is not officially used, so in Zrenjanin he cannot, for example, be named on it. This formulation to protect the level to be reached, in a situation where it is quite discriminatory or not available, is not very encouraging to me. I also have a statement of principle on this point 3 that says: "Serbia and Montenegro monitor the achievement of human and minority rights and civil liberties and ensure their protection, in the event that that protection is not provided in the Member States". Of course, I think you should monitor and ensure that protection, level and degree of rights reached in the state community as well. Because who will submit these reports to international institutions and other forums, such as nature and nature. Therefore, there are things that we could discuss in more detail, but generally if it is indeed the political will of the majority to adopt this charter as a transitional form towards the creation of a state community that leads the peoples of Serbia-Montenegro into a brighter future, I am of course not against it, and I will vote for that constitutional charter and for that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25517	The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić. The next reported word is MP Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25518	Dear fellow MPs, today is Savindan, today is the greatest holiday of all Serbians. Today, someone wants us to give up St. Sava, Emperor Lazar, Emperor Dusan, Milos Obilić, leader of Karajord and Prince Milos. It is today that someone wants us to forget forever the countless victims of our people in defense of freedom for our own territory, to forget Kosovo heroes, the Thessalonians, the millions of Serbs beastly killed in Jasenovac, our Siljelic and Tepic. Our struggle to preserve a single Serbian state has been going on for eight centuries since it began. For these eight centuries, no enemy has been able to permanently steal our cradle of all hearts. But, apparently, today they're going to try to do that to people from the world's centers of power, cheating on us, and on the day of St. Sava. Namely, the current SR Yugoslavia has been officially admitted to the United Nations, which means that the international community has unequivocally recognised the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as an important international legal act. The current constitution of the SR Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia has unequivocally found that Metohija and Kosovo are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Resolution 1244 of the United Nations Security Council tied this fact to the state of SR Yugoslavia. Since the international community's view is generally accepted that there is no change in the state borders in Europe, Cypriot separatists can achieve their goals only if we give them a legal basis for it. Namely, the proposed Constitutional Charter, which defines Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia as legally binding and not binding the international community, and even less the Cypriot separatists in Cosmet. Didn't the international community guarantee the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1244? Yes, and what do we have in Kosovo and Metohija today? Our people suffer, both in Kosovo and Metohija, and throughout Serbia as exiled persons. Our people do not return to their centuries-old hearths. So he was deceived by the same international community. We're in a catastrophic situation, because it's a paradox that they're so-called. international forces put into office not to protect this people, not to seduce order, but to protect paramilitary formations, to protect the Ship's terrorist gangs. But they forgot their historical memory, so it won't be long before the same ones who protected them turn against them by yesterday. Javier Solana's signing the Belgrade Agreement means as much as the promises of Gelbard, Holbrooke and all others are now worth, given to our country's leadership. Who now remembers Kusner's promises, Hekerup's promises, and I believe it'll be hard for him to remember what Michael Steiner promised tomorrow. So what are the perspectives - the consolidation of separatism and its further escalation in the area of SR Yugoslavia, the slowdown of economic growth, the growth of social and economic problems. In other words, promises are promises, and the written legal act of the Security Council is some reality, because it is very naive that anyone could interpret the Cosmet decision as it suits us and as it is written in the proposal for this constitutional charter. So far experience only gives the opposite arguments. Didn't Carla del Ponte say she wasn't interested in our constitution at all, in our legislation, in any guarantee of our Republic and federal government? Simply put, we do not need to change almost for faith and to create ourselves some legal framework for legal secession of Metohija and Kosovo. That's where I think of the situation that can arise, like when Badinter's plan was accepted and when they only realized there was no more SFRY. In particular, the essence of fraud is that we end our own state, and that at the same time the Cypriot separatists simply declare their country, calling for international law, similar to that done by Slovenia and Croatia. After all, today we heard from this pay phone that an independent Kosovo is already being created in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. They tricked us once, so is it possible that we'll let them do it one more time? I don't think we should do that. This issue is too large for any of us to take any responsibility for ourselves, regardless of the current political position. It would still be the most honest thing to ask our people about everything in the referendum, i.e. Does he need this constitutional charter at all? This has been done by many European countries asking their citizens if they are to join the European Union or not, when they can, why can't we too. Until then, SRJ would have existed legitimately and legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25519	The word has a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic, and the following is MP Dragan Todorovic, a member of the SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25520	In the summer of 2000, just before the end of Milosevic's rule, a common state that was then called and still called Yugoslavia practically did not exist. There was already talk in Montenegro about the referendum itself and how it would escape from the country. That is why one of the most important pre-election promises of DOS and DSS was, of course, that if it comes to power, it will do everything possible for the common state of Serbia and Montenegro to survive. That is how it came, in the end line, after some time to sign the Belgrade Agreement, which was signed by all the most important political factors in both Serbia and Montenegro and blessed by the European Union itself. But months after that, the troubles of writing the Constitutional Charter itself were difficult, which was actually meant to be a logical continuation of the Belgrade Agreement, and to have before us a text of the Constitutional Charter that is completely hollow, completely empty, which no important question has literally defined. All important and controversial issues have been left to be defined in the law implementing the Constitutional Charter. These are property issues, finance issues, military issues, the issue of functioning of federal institutions, etc. In this regard, when it comes to property, there has been a time vacuum of six months, when it is not known at all how these federal institutions, and above all, the military, will function. What I would particularly like to point out is one question that was often raised by DSS representatives at the session itself. In fact, many may have forgotten that on November 3, 1999, Montenegro came out of the country's monetary system and that at that time the state reserves amounted to about $40m. Now these reserves are about two billion dollars or so. DSS representatives asked for the fact to be mentioned both in the Charter and in the law that Serbian citizens, whose money it is and who are most interested in it, would one day not be played. However, it is sad that unlike a Montenegrin delegation that has always been unique in such a situation in the Serbian delegation, it was not the case, so that he sat down with Mr. Bosca Ristic, simply deafens the request of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which he will probably have to account for to the citizens of Serbia whose money it was and is. It is already widely known that the DSS will not vote in favour of the law implementing the Constitutional Charter. It will not be voted for precisely because it advocates a common state, for European integration, for historical, cultural and any other co-operation between Serbia-Montenegro, for the creation of serious state institutions, and for those who only declare that they believe these institutions and do all they can to ensure that such institutions fully dissuasive and that every story about the common state becomes unnecessary at the moment when the country formally begins to exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25521	Thank you. National MP Dragan Todorovic gave up his application for the word. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, please. The following is MP George Mamula, MP of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25522	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, we have a very important document ahead of us, if this proposal can be called the Constitutional Charter. I'm saying this because compared to one serious document, with the Constitution, this constitutional charter has much less value; less value for the reason that much of it has been said, with a lot of elana is announced. What did we get? We have received an act with an insufficient basis for all that should contain one constitutional document as the headquarters of one community. It was also said before October 5th 2000 that problems with Milo Djukanovic's intentions to redefine relations in the federal state would be easily resolved if the government changed then. What happened? There has been a long strain and push for a solution by the Montenegrin delegation, and at the expense of Serbia. Prime Minister Djindjic said today in his statement that the Serbian government is against disintegration processes in the Balkans. He's absolutely right if that's what he's doing. This document, this paper that is in front of us, does not go hand in hand with integration, but is just an act of disintegration of the SRJ as a common state of Serbia-Montenegro. If we take a closer look at all these members of this constitutional charter, we'll see to it. After all, many colleagues have talked about it individually today, and I would not look back on it. Also, one of the colleagues today said that all those who attack the constitutional charter against the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. That's not true. I am personally in favour of Serbia-Montenegro's common state, with a defined relationship between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. I don't agree with the solutions given in this Constitutional Charter. After all, everyone has the right to think, and no one has the right to replace the thesis. The worst, on today, most will likely make a decision to adopt this constitutional charter, and the charter degrades the current SRJ and determines its definitely dying in three years, perhaps earlier. Unfortunately, both the Serbian people and the citizens of Serbia and the Montenegrin people and the citizens of Montenegro, this is not the end of our country's agony and dismemberment. There is no doubt that the Republic of Serbia is being broken down and torn apart, which is particularly devastating. Many today, as well as earlier days, have called for an international community. The only question is why the international community, especially the European Union, is speeding up and setting as a condition for the Security Council to adopt a constitutional charter. Are we even wondering why they're rushing us so fast? We believe a lot in some of the international community, and it has proved in the recent past, even in the past 10-12 years, when the work was being done by the SFRJ, many of the international community's envoys declared themselves public, publicly saying they advocated the preservation of the SFRY, and in part and in fact supported all the funds of the secessionist republic that sought secession from the SFRY. Let us not be deceived now, let us not and now declare our support and push us to bring a constitutional charter, and what is next, which guarantees we have that the international community will support this constitutional charter, as it will be adopted today. I must admit, since I am from Kosovo and Metohija, I am very glad that in the preamble of this document there is a provision for Serbia to enter the state union with the autonomous provinces of Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina. In my opinion, this preamble is the only one worth it. Also, I have to look back on Prime Minister Djindjic's initiative. He said a few days ago that our state and we should raise the issue of resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status. In light of this initiative, I think he gave one real assessment of the incorrect behaviour of the international community in Kosovo and Metohija, in the context of the non-implementation of Resolution 1244 by those who have just passed that resolution. If the international community violates the Security Council resolution it has brought, that is, if its representatives violate it and do not implement it, in addition to this Resolution, the current SRJ constitution, past the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia Hans Hekerup brings constitutional frameworks for Kosovo, and individuals from the Serbian and SRJ government, including President Kostunica and others, are appointing those constitutional frameworks in which there is no "S" from Serbia, nor "J" from Yugoslavia, then how can we trust those representatives of the international community. How can we believe that they will recognise this constitutional charter, which is really less important, a well-founded act than the SRJ Constitution, as much as we love it or do not love it, or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is in force. We need to be realistic about this. In the end, just one more sentence. I think counterpart Moma Trajkovic was absolutely right when he stressed the difficult situation of the Serb and Montenegrin people in Kosovo and Metohija and that they were really concerned about their fate, when it comes to this decisive moment of adoption of such an important act. What will happen next, what will follow after that in Serbia, and a new constitution with many regions is announced. Does this not mean that Kosovo and Metohija continue to split Serbia? Fortunately, I would be happy if the international community respected this document, accepted the preservation of this country and this state community. Given the experience and fraud of individuals, representatives of the international community in earlier years, not their promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25523	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25524	The Belgrade agreement did not have as many confederal elements as the law has to implement the constitutional charter, including the charter itself. Instead of guaranteeing the equality of people, citizens, the state community is now proposing the equality of the two republics, or their authorities. The Charter implementation law in the 21st member says the property of the community will be established within six months. What if that law isn't passed? If the state community doesn't have its own property, then it's not a legal person, so it won't get credit, given the amounts it can count on and that it can't guarantee their return, which was a recommendation from the Venice Commission. On the side that the division of property can lead to division of the army, which can have far-reaching consequences. On January 24th, bigger citizens adopted the Law on Borrowing with the European Community. However, if the new state does not have the property, it will not be able to be in debt under this Borrowing Act. In the case of the distribution of assets, only the loan received from the IMF may be subject to division, as well as part of the gold received by the SRJ as the successor of the former SFRY from the Bank for International Alignment in Basel. But that amount isn't enough for serious borrowings. In addition, he remained in debt to the world, and trustees are not interested in internal relations. It just shows how hard we live in and what the fruits of decades of destruction, chaos, and heritage that have so generously fallen upon us. It is not even clear why the law implementing the Constitutional Charter disappears from the truth and reconciliation committee. The cease-fire of this commission could have a negative impact on future relations throughout the region. The problem of truth and reconciliation in the area of the previous Yugoslavia is twice as important and crucial to stabilising political problems and tragedies in emerging countries, as well as for development and relations across the Balkans. Major crimes against humanity and the lack of essential consideration and reconciliation after World War II, as well as the unresolved national issue, have led here to the creation of fertile soil for the outbreak of the warring ethnic base and the awakening of national, religious and social demagogy of unprecedented proportions and the creation of an unprecedented mass political engineering that turned this region into the last social dump in Europe, destroyed by disillusioned violence during the 1990s. The Commission, with the aim of examining the causes of the abolition of rights to life, freedom and property, with a mandate of three years, is disappearing under this law, and it has a mixed composition -- it is composed of people of different political beliefs, religious and national definitions, but of security and integrity, with the task of gathering facts that would lead to the truth about wars and crimes. It is the first commission with that task in Europe. Why is the commission being abolished? Its mandate expires on February 22, 2005, and should be revealed the causes of wars and lists of all victims. It's like someone ordered a goodbye in the next war. It is also necessary to say that it is not clear in the Charter that control will be democratic and civilian. If she's democratic, there's no need to be a civilian. If it's civil, it doesn't mean it'll be democratic. In addition, when it comes to the defence strategy, Article 55 discusses that the two-state community will determine only a defence strategy, not a security strategy. This is something that should have been complemented, and because of our commitment to this charter, we will also apply international conventions on human rights. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25525	The word is made by MP Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25526	Dear Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, I am one of the co-chairmen who worked on the creation of the Constitutional Charter for eight months. When the journalists asked me at one point, and I made a statement with Mr. Kujovic, do I feel responsible for this time we spent, I said - I feel responsible, but not because we spent a lot of time, but because I was mistaken that all of them were in a good mood to make one state community, which would overcome a particular problem. There are deep reasons why the Belgrade Agreement was signed. These are historical connections, language, tradition, religion, culture, solid family and property ties and all those who have the citizenship of one, and live permanently in another republic. Also, a unique economic space, common development interests and common security interests. Both Serbia and Montenegro, as two old European states, were declared the same year and in the same day, in 1878, continued to live always in the community. It is important for Serbia to be with Montenegro, just as it is important for Montenegro to be with Serbia. This community - no matter how it is resolved, and it is legally resolved, and this document that is before you is not a legal document, but simply a way out of one crisis and it is a more political compromise that has had to be achieved in one way or another - is needed to prevent the reduction of our ethnic space, to prevent the loss of defence potential and to prevent a distance from the Mediterranean and the depriving of all the benefits that belong to this strategic base. Furthermore, to prevent the loss of overall power and to reduce the opportunity to defend its strategic interest in Kosovo and Sandzak, to prevent the opening of new crisis hotspots, such as the Raska region and Vojvodina, and ultimately, the possibility of entering Montenegro into other alliances, which do not contribute to Serbia's interest. These are all the reasons that require that Serbia's Montenegro be together. I must say that the chronology of making this document is not as simple as the prime minister pointed out. The constitutional commission worked very seriously, and after two months, if you remember, two documents were made completely -- one represented by Montenegrins, and the other by the Serbian side. They were a constitution in the right sense of words. But there was no agreement. I must say that we then appealed to those who also signed the Belgrade Agreement to gather together and give us a solution, to give us, after all, the authentic interpretation of the Belgrade Agreement, which is full, as those from the West have said, useful ambiguities. On August 12th, President Kostunica received a letter, and on 26 August he scheduled a meeting with the signatories of the Belgrade Agreement, where no one came. Prime Minister Djindjic did not come either, Milo Djukanovic did not come. The two documents, which were one serious work, are replaced in a strange way by a letter coming from the federal interior ministry, by Mr Zivkovic, which was made as an agreement between Prime Minister Djindjic, or someone from his party, and the Democratic Party of Socialists. The document is being handled and he was as such even better than this constitutional charter that is before you. But I must say that we are attending a paradox: when it comes to the Belgrade Agreement, the Constitutional Charter and the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, the most concrete, even though quite concise, is the Belgrade Agreement. He gives the foundation of something that can be a normal state and that can live. It showed that there was a particular concept of what would look like and function as a new state community - as a community with a minimum number of functions, but that these functions would be comprehensive, not artificially narrowed down, as is written in this Charter. The charter itself is already a step backwards from the Belgrade Agreement, but not so that it could not be corrected and that it could not survive political oligarchies both in Serbia and Montenegro. Then it comes to an end completely pointless law, inaccessible, completely decomposing, which creates a dangerous legal mess, which tries to cement the destruction of the state. Simply, in our work on the Constitutional Charter, we gave in as much as we could for the sake of the common state, although those in Montenegro from the DPS say this is not a state. We have made concessions on citizenship, the capital, customs, borders, markets, assets, coins, the choice of MPs, military, courts, the composition of the court and the monetary system. And finally comes a law that, in one provision, in the provision that the army has no property, but that the lease agreements will borrow from Montenegro or Serbia what it needs to work, destroys the entire concept of the state community. History and a certain moment couldn't escape. I'm not saying that what's right in front of you is good. That's far from it, and you don't have to see it as a legal act at all. That's one deal, first of all an agreement between the two sides, the DPS and the DS, to simply continue in the common state some other time. After all, that is what coalitions stress. But we at the DSS have preserved a basic notion of state and law and we view this as just one step in the long-term programme, not as a shortcut or a one-time scam. If the Prime Minister said it was a car charter and it was a tire law, I have to say it depends most on the safety of the car. So that's it. It wasn't all easy. I again conclude that this is an agreement between the two parties, which they want to take power after the constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25527	The People's Messenger, Vukosav Tomašević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25528	Dear colleagues, since there is no time for two serious speeches on such a serious subject, I will give up in favour of my colleague Shormaz, but first I want to say just one more sentence. Whether or not today will remain remembered in the history of Serbia-Montenegro will show time; and I am sure very soon. But today will be remembered for something else: for the first time in the history of parliamentaryism, not only in Serbia, one MP, my colleague, Mr. Martian, has been punished for insulting the mafia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25529	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25530	Ladies and gentlemen, elected and appointed MPs, Madam President of the National Assembly, have already said and argued, particularly well, Mr Jocic earlier, why this law implementing the Constitutional Charter is bad and why we will vote against it - because it is an act that should simply enable Serbia-Montenegro to unbundle within three years. However, interestingly, to Serbia's detriment. We are interested in why a political group in Serbia agreed to such a thing, with so many concessions and why in such a way, condescendingly, acted towards the DPS in Montenegro and Milo Djukanovic. A very popular writer currently in the world, including Serbia, because of the movie "Lord of the Rings" is Mr. Tolkin, the deceased; however, the first book on the time of generation before "Lord of the Rings" is "Silmarillon". I don't know if you've read it; in short, you've got four angels sent out to make one world out of empty space, three work, and one crashes and makes what we know, like volcanoes, everything we have bad on the planet, and that fourth that destroys everything is called Melcor. Our people recognized one such angel with two heads in this country and named it "Juka-jini". You see, since we have little time for this democratic Rules of Procedure, I have to cut this part short, it's interesting to know why the gentlemen of the Democratic Party agreed to something like this. Here, we have a stenogram from a subcommittee session where Mr. Luksic of the DPS says, "I can ask if it's hypocritical that we've been sending planes for five years, small planes (interesting) and hiding opposition around Montenegro, and that they're turning their backs to us tomorrow and cooperating with someone else. I think it's hypocritical." Later in his conversation with Mr. Shami, he explains that he knows that he did not send planes for DSS officials, who were also opposition officials, but for the officials of the Democratic Party. We all know they flew those small planes Mr. Djindjic and Mr. Vesic during the war. The topic is exactly what this is about and this kind of concession is being made towards the DPS, does this mean that I need as Serbia to pay back the debts for some spent kerosene in those small planes; would it not be easier for those high-ranking officials of the Democratic Party to pay out of their pockets that fuel, rather than at the expense of the state of Serbia? And when Mr. Djindjic says today that we have a charter of one car (he likes to express himself so much), which we need and who must participate in one race, what it's worth to us and how we can be in a race with that car if we don't have fuel, if the law doesn't give us fuel and if we have, say, fuel for 30% of the race; we can't get to the finish with that car, however good it is. It's important, I guess, just to have a car, and then they'll see what they're gonna do next. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25531	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if the presidents of the parliamentary groups who have not used this right are applying for the word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25532	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the DSS will vote in favour of the Charter as it did on the constitutional committee, for several reasons above all. The first is because this is the necessity that has been established by the failure of the existing state, without the participation of a large part of Montenegro in that country, and we want as a party to go into the creation of a country that was meant to be the fruit of the people's will, rather than political agreements; unfortunately, what we have obtained through the law is exactly that. It is important to adopt the charter also because of Kosovo. The Kosovo issue is not opened by the constitutional charter's vote, as some would like it to be opened today. Addressing Kosovo's issue today would be at the expense of Serbia. What the Charter finds is that it insists on implementing Resolution 1244 for Kosovo and that the resolution of the Kosovo issue is being extended for the time when our country, I sincerely hope, Serbia, will be stronger and more able to deal with the problem. What would have happened if the charter hadn't been voted, is that the issue of Kosovo and other parts of our country, above all I mean the Raska area and some parts of Vojvodina, would probably be resolved in the current circumstances at Serbia's expense. It is therefore important, for Kosovo's sake and territorial integrity and to stop the process of disintegration, to vote in favour of the Charter. The Charter went one step away from the Belgrade Agreement, unlike the law. The law and the intentions shown during the work on the law have shown that there is no good faith of certain political oligarchies in the republics that the state is functioning. Mr. Jocic spoke of two concepts that existed and of the intentions of the president of Kostunica, who was mentioned here as one of the first signatories of the Belgrade Agreement and one who worked most to reorganise the state; and, the meetings he convened did not bear fruit. While we were building a common state, watching her work, the two governments made their separate arrangements. Finance ministers Ivanisevic and Djelic made some of their own systems, so we received customs at the border of Serbia-Montenegro, so everyone will have to pay customs, to determine customs rates and everything else we never had. As Milosevic introduced a border with Republika Srpska, a border with Montenegro has now been introduced. This is certainly not the state we wanted, and I don't think the citizens of Serbia want that kind of state. Serbian citizens, although they want a common state with Montenegro, want it to be a state rather than a state, want it to be a state that will not be at their harm as it is now, but where all of this will be possible and will be controlled by citizens of Serbia to the extent that it is necessary to demonstrate the equality of both Member States. Will Serbia's citizens finance Montenegro's army if it moves through secession? They will, 95.5% of the military financing of the future state union comes from our money, from the citizens of Serbia. The government of Montenegro will also have these money, as everything will remain with it, every dinar invested in the military remains with the government of Montenegro. Given that this law is more of a conflict law and the law on the separation and destruction of the state community, nothing more than financing the construction of the Montenegrin army remains with one such law, according to Mr Batic, who probably interpreted this law well as he said that every honorable independent, as they like to say to Montenegrins, or to every honorable man who is for secession, the separation of Serbia-Montenegro, this law is sweet and expensive. Mr Batic said he would strongly support this law, because it leads through a few years to separation, because it is unclear, has provisions establishing the separation of Serbia and Montenegro, disabling its functioning. What is good for Mr Batic, who advocates separation and secession, is not good for those who want that state community to work. If we're talking about the state community here, we can ask the other institutions of that state community, for example. The Commission for Truth and Reconciliation. Did the Truth and Reconciliation Commission bother Mr Djukanovic, who was the prime minister of the government of Montenegro at the time of the bombing of Dubrovnik? Did he mind establishing the truth and who bothered to establish the truth about all crimes in the territory of the former Yugoslavia? Who bothered to see how many victims had fallen and that the Serb people had finally taken their name off their hands, that the people to whom the entire international community was trying to impose a burden of responsibility and collective guilt through some trials in The Hague. Who was the problem with the Truth and Reconciliation Commission? Did it bother Mila Djukanovic, since it would find his responsibility somewhere, while choosing Slobodan Milosevic as Yugoslav president, is a fact. These small planes that were mentioned also flew in the break until the Constitutional Commission worked, so some members of the Commission, Djukanovic's plane, flew and made separate agreements between the two governments, i.e. two political oligarchies, the DPS and the Democratic Party, so this law is more of a broken law of two political wills than the fruit of the work of the Commission coming from Serbia and which was meant to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not to work against them; and that is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. If it is taken into consideration that the new parliament of the state union will emerge from this assembly, which is illegal, although we have asked that by the moment of the vote we get a decision from the Administrative Board or a report on the basis of the mandate for 23 MPs, without a mere 10% of the composition of this assembly, whose mandates on various sides have been challenged, so that we can legitimately decide and vote, we did not get that. Someone may care that the new state gets its legitimacy from an illegal congregation. Can such a state have legitimacy? He can't. Can justice be built on injustice? He can't. It is precisely the intention to build the future state union of Serbia-Montenegro to talk about the intention of those who have over one leverd the law. The Constitutional Charter is acceptable and it is far from the Belgrade Agreement, which is one political act, but the Constitutional Charter is something that has the frameworks of a state community and has the structure of a state. Regardless of some things and some concessions and compromises, which we made primarily for the sake of Serbia's citizens' interests to preserve territory, not to open the issue of Kosovo, the Raška area and others, the law had to be different, it had to hit the foundations of a good government organisation, good control and a significant impact of Serbian citizens on how their money will be spent. This is not how you are controlled and we will continue to finance in Montenegro, as we have done so far, and all will still be done to harm the citizens of Serbia. If we are talking about responsibility and if there have been a lot of words here about the responsibility of individual MPs, the historic moment and everything else -- yes, gentlemen of the Parliaments, it is this responsibility on you, which, at the expense of Serbian citizens, will vote such a law -- the Democratic Party of Serbia is urging all those who want to preserve the citizens of Serbia to spare them another failed project called the Constitutional Charter Law in this case. It is a failed project that will not allow the functioning of the state community, but rather make it impossible and lead to the decomposition and another painful divorce, which, by my humble court, is something that you will assume responsibility for all of you who, for various reasons, will vote, who may not have fully indulged to see what this law is carrying and which institutions are being abolished. Once again, I believe that the law can and must be completed, that the Constitutional Charter is the basis on which the state can be built, but the law must be done in order for Serbia to finally be represented, and that each one according to the participation in the financing and functioning of that state would benefit, and not again, that we have something that is one of the scrupulous formations that will allow political oligarchies in Serbia-Montenegro to redo our fate in the same way that Milosevic, on the one hand and Momar Bulatovic, Milo Djukanovic (until he has suddenly become an opposition) did so for the last ten years and brought us into this situation where we are now. I fear that this law will only extend this state and will not contribute to normalising relations and that we will quickly and organisedly engage in European integration, but will only slow it down, and I think it is your responsibility. As my fellow MP said, time will show how right we were, and how much cheap political trade has put into question the functioning of Serbia-Montenegro's state union.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25533	National MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that even the creators of the Constitutional Charter do not believe in the common state. This is what we had the opportunity to hear today from representatives of individual parties, participants in the creation of the Constitutional Charter. It is obvious that the common state is under pressure from the outside and that it is in the interest of oligarchy in Serbia-Montenegro. This is the basic goal of creating a common state, which is created on a very short, fixed deadline. Why is this document, after all, from the Constitutional Charter, not the Constitution? What does the word charter mean? Every country in the world has a constitution, no one has a constitutional charter. This state, which is being made by this constitutional charter, is precedentd in the parliamentaryism of Europe and the world. There is not a single state, nor a Federation, a confederacy, a union that has what stands in the Constitutional Charter. So, almost nothing in common. Earlier, the constitutions were written by academics, respected professors of constitutional law, experts of constitutional law, excellent legal experts, and today, unfortunately, that is not the case. It is obvious to anyone who was understood right to read the Constitutional Charter that it is not a legal act, as one of the participants in the creation of the Constitutional Charter said, that it is practically the least legal act, and that it is actually a political compromise. I would say a political compromise between the two political oligarchies, one in Serbia, and one in Montenegro, which rule Serbia-Montenegro. This is the true truth and therefore the creation of a constitutional charter was not attended by experts in constitutional law, neither by academics nor by professors of constitutional law. I said that the Serbian Unity Party will not vote in favour of the Constitutional Charter, nor the Law on its implementation for three reasons. The first reason is that Serbia is once again unequal in the common state. It is inequitable in every respect and, ultimately, Serbia will bear the burden of supporting the administration and all that the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter with 95.5%. It will be paid by Serbian citizens and only 4.5% of Montenegrin citizens. Then where's the equality? The second reason is that this is in fact the delay of Montenegro's secession from Serbia. If anyone wants to deny me, just remember what Milo Djukanovic said at the Montenegro Assembly session when he made it clear that Montenegro would be independent, sovereign, independent and internationally recognised in a year, two or three. The question is, what are we doing here and what are we actually doing here at a session of the National Assembly, when it is necessary to adopt the Constitutional Charter and the Law on its implementation. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija is being raised. Many have mentioned Kosovo and Metohija here. But I would agree only with those who say that the application of Resolution 1244 will be very strict and will be interpreted by the Security Council, not by the government in Montenegro, nor by the government in Serbia. Because that resolution defines Kosovo and Metohija as part of the common state of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. When Montenegro comes out after three years, and it will come out for sure and they all say and laugh at us in the mustache and behind us, at that time Kosovo and Metohija become an independent Albanian state, because it is thus determined by Resolution 1244. What it says in the Constitutional Charter is for our interpretation; the Constitutional Charter itself says that all the ratified international agreements are, and that is where we think of Resolution 1244, naturally above all our legal acts, including the Constitutional Charter. So it's about the status of Kosovo and Metohija, it's about people who are left to live in Kosovo and Metohija. It is about people living here in refugee camps, in camps, which Serbia will deny assistance in a year and will close down many. The question is, what's going to happen to these people? These people will not be financed by anyone from Montenegro, but only by the citizens of Serbia, but the state will certainly deny them that help. Why should only Serbian citizens single out their funds, 95.5% for military facilities in Montenegro, for garrisons, for polygons, for the naval fleet of the military, why, when all of this will remain in Montenegro after the separation. We'll pay for it all from here. I don't think that's the equality that's been specified by this charter. What a common state that does not have a common market even though it is said here in Article 12 - Serbia-Montenegro has a common market. What is the common market that has two currencies, in Serbia, in Montenegro the euro. We have two customs duties, two tax systems, a tax rate in Serbia 20%, in Montenegro 5%. We've got a border on Brodarev, we've got customs. Who's gonna take it off? I am very interested to see if after the adoption of the Charter a checkpoint of customs and police checkpoints that form the border of Serbia-Montenegro will be lifted. It is not good for the new state to be created in this assembly that does not correspond to the Serbian citizens' election will in 2000. You know very well that only four electoral lists entered parliament in 2000. Please, it was DOS, it was the SPS, the Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian Unity Party. And it's no big deal if some MP's group is singled out of DOS because they're as defined as a coalition that has the names of all the parties who made it up in front of the main names. So there's nothing controversial about it. But it's disputed to form MP groups like this phantom new group called, imagine how -- "Serbia," please. It's shaped and it's called "Serbia," and it never went to the election. That's a shame. Therefore, this assembly has an composition that is not legitimate, which is not according to the Serbian citizens' election will certainly be the Constitutional Court, if there is one at all, and if these people have the right morals of constitutional judges, they will challenge the creation of such groups. Those MPs should lose their mandates. So it is not good if you start building a new state in this system when MPs who are no longer a phantom newly formed parliamentary group have one single task, which is to vote in favour of the Charter and vote in favour of this law. Be assured, they will be in one-time use and will then lose support, mandates and everything else. To be clear, the Serbian Unity Party is defined as a common state of Serbia-Montenegro. But not a country like this imposed on us by someone on the side, which, according to the prime minister today, was the first designed by Javier Solana to show him the first document of the Belgrade Agreement. That is what the Prime Minister said today, saying that Kostunica and Milo Djukanovic agreed. So, I'm not for the common state to be formed by someone who bombed that same state, Javier Solana. Had there been a little political courage, our leaders would have asked someone from the European Union to send someone else to be a mediator, not the man who bombed this country. It's humiliating for Serbian citizens, it's destructive and it's a little ironic and cynical. We do not want a country created out of the interest of political oligarchy in Serbia and political oligarchy in Montenegro. We want a country by measure and the will of the people of Serbia and the people of Montenegro. This will can only be determined in a referendum, or plebiscite, when the citizens of Serbia will determine whether we want to live together, and we should live together, because much more connects us than separates us. But it must be the primary will of the citizens, not the will of the mighty. So, once again, I must say that the Serbian Unity Party will vote against the Constitutional Charter, which does not mean that we are against the common state and that we will vote against the law on its implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-01-27-0.u25535	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Does the proposing representative, MP Bosko Ristic, answer for a word? No, I don't. I'm closing the search and we're approaching the vote. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the text of the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the texts of the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the Serbian-Montenegro state union, we move to a decision on each of these acts individually. Voting the text of Serbia-Montenegro's Constitutional Charter. For 166, against 47, three abstentions, of a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes the text of the Constitutional Charter of the National Community of Serbia and Montenegro. Secondly, I put to the vote the text of the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. [[Applause]] For 130 , v. 83, abstention three, of a total of 216 MPs. [[Applause]] I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes the text of the Law implementing Serbia-Montenegro's Constitutional Charter. After reviewing this item of the agenda, I conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003.
