ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27350	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. The use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue to work. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Milan Radulović, Vukosav Tomaševic, Borisvoje Draculaovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Pal Shandor and Milos Radivojčević. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: the proposal for a Law on Pensions and INVALID SECURATION (principles) according to the application is made by MP Toma Busetic; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has only half a minute at its disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and in this short time, I will prove that the law is bad. In addition to the fact that the accounting system is restrictive and bad, numerous rights are abolished, and they were in force under the law. In addition to the rights based on reduced working capacity, the rights to financial compensation for assistance and care, which everyone was talking about, no one mentioned any other rights that existed in the applicable law. It is the social standard of pensioners, which is financed from the Republic Fund. It was written down, although it was never applied, right to the pay gap. The minister will say that the system changed, the right to extended insurance, which is the case of bankruptcy, so the workers could pay their own contributions. A special internship now applies only to mothers with a third child. What about the other faces? It was regulated in federal law. What's with the workload? In Articles 82 and 83, which are contradictory, it is said that pension insurance rights are realised in a fund where the insurance company was last secured.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27352	Thank you, you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27353	What about the internship of workers from Kosovo and Metohija and this translation of the provisional fee?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27354	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Kitanovic, the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Mihajlo Jagodic, the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27355	Dear colleagues, dear ministers, esteeming the effort you've made to prepare the draft of this bill, and trying not to repeat some of the things spoken yesterday and the views of my colleagues, I'm going to try to give my review of the bill. What led the government, or you as minister of this portfolio, to propose such a law. My opinion is that these are primarily economic reasons, restrictions, and on the other hand to remove shortcomings in the functioning of the previous law. What is important in deciding to propose such a law to the National Assembly is that such a law is applicable in practice. So that difference between normative and real to reduce as much as possible, so that those rights that insurance companies have are in practice and realised. We had a law that, according to the declarative story of some MPs, gave us greater privileges. However, we were able to see that these privileges in practice didn't work; that law sort of worked about as much as that American bomber F-117 and they had one common feature, which is that they were invisible. In order for the parallel to be complete, both the law and the American bomber had another common feature, which is that it was seen that this miracle of technique over the sky in Serbia was not completely invisible, and the law itself was once visible, especially in the period when elections and election activities were approaching. The then government appeared with some interventions, shared some help to the citizens, and this could be seen from the law. There was a story about whether retirement was a social category or not. This law prescribs more of a social category than it was before. It is an effort to put pensions into economic frameworks and to draw closer to the market concept that was created on our premises. So those things that changed in other areas were important to change in this social area as well. So, the fund financed from current activities is completely emptied and has to be restored, which brings me into a dilemma -- was it perhaps better to go with complete discontinuity? However, I am aware of the fact that this would cause great resistance, and above all those who advocate that retirement should be more of a social category than it is and that the simplest solution would be that this would be a transition to that stage. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think it contains a lot of good things and shifts in relation to the earlier period, but there are also some shortcomings. They're mostly listed here. That may be the style this law was written for, inaccuracy in some members. For example, Article 84 states that "the pension and disability insurance rights have been met from the day of the submission and at the earliest six months since that day". Why early? It would be much more meaningful for the users of this right, which is why this law is written, to set the limit until they need that right at the latest. Furthermore, Article 109 states that pensions are paid, as a rule, backwards. So, for the users themselves, it's much more important that these deadlines be set, so it was acceptable that the amendment that says "in the current month for the previous month"; in any case, that pensions should be paid in advance, there would be no problem, but since it's backwards, the question is what is the period until which these pensions and disability benefits should be paid. I hope that this practice of the past few years, when these pensions were mostly paid regularly, will continue and continue. So we won't have a situation when those pensions were paid once or twice a year. On the other hand, as a lack of a bill, it states that it is restrictive and reduces the rights of a disabled person, other people's care and assistance and other rights. I respect the minister's explanation yesterday that these rights will be regulated by a special law. I think it might be appropriate for the minister to explain to us a little bit what laws and rights should be regulated by special laws. Another remark, not specifically on this proposal, but on the work of the Ministry itself, which is that it may not have been more active in countering certain phenomena from the previous period in the application of the current law. So, what hasn't been more controlled by the pension commissions, which hasn't tried to suppress the corruption and bribes that are obviously in this area. I want to say that this practice of corruption and bribery from the previous period has been continued and that today it is not contained in some large scale. Completely well-intentioned, so it wouldn't be like the law on crime in this country. It is first accepted as malicious, and later it is said that someone has done nothing to suppress the phenomenon. On the other hand, I think it's a good and positive thing, crucial in this law, that pension accounting system. He is essentially much more just than the previous one, because based on the information the minister provided, so the old system has denied itself and pushed itself aside. The growth of those pensions in the 1990s was extremely high and the citizen is in an unequal position as it enters the pension and other disability relationship. Those who retired in the 1990s were privileged, so individuals who had a career upsizing in relation to other citizens; it is unacceptable and you make a difference between citizens, and it is precisely by some people who advocate that retirement should be a social category. That even if it's completely good, no matter what, the law has accompanying things, other laws, the work of other services, ministries, if all these things don't start, then the law will hardly be able to achieve some results in practice. There's a lot of potential here to regulate the pension status of agricultural insurance companies. I think it's enough that one member of the household is necessarily insured. Problems are on the other side: where agrocomplex issues are solved. I don't think this government in those areas has done enough to make these things in this social area, as far as agriculture is concerned, in a better position. We are aware of the fact that there is no great continuity here, and for the past 15 years the fund has formed and there has been little payment and little money. It's normal that the situation is the same. However, these things should be resolved there by those ministries that have not engaged enough to get things started and to do the right thing. They haven't made a greater effort, say the agriculture ministry, for economy and privatisation, and another, which should actually complement these funds to the fund, i.e. to be logistical support for this ministry. All in all, I wouldn't define myself for now how I'm going to vote, and I'm sure as well as the other members of my party. I thank the Minister for his attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27356	There is one more reported, MP Mihajlo Jagodic, but that is ten seconds. Do you want to use that time? He won't. ) The word has a folk MP, Velimir Simonovic, who justified his absence yesterday from the hall, and since he was the only one registered from the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27357	Ladies and gentlemen, in principle, I wanted to talk about two things and one thing at a time. First, something strictly principled and really cannot be solved by these and other laws after this. We won't have a stable pension system until we make the pension fund completely separate from the government and from the budget. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the pension fund was the richest in the state, and if the finance minister needed some money, he could borrow money from that fund for a certain time and at a certain interest. The government, both this and everything else, must seek it, that's our ultimate goal, to make that fund rich again, and to pay out pensions only from there. It's not right when people who work say we work for pensioners; that's not true. Pensioners made their pensions. Employees work for their pensions today. I know it takes a stable economy, stable currency, etc. The problem is very difficult, and so I say, it has to be just one far-fetched goal of this and all of the next governments. The second thing, much more concrete, and what could have been solved now, by this law, to be desired, is the question of pension insurance for farmers. I am deeply convinced that it is only right for the pension insurance of farmers to be voluntary, but provided that anyone who does not want to invest in a pension fund cannot appear when he turns 65 as a social case and asks for social assistance. He felt that he would acquire some property in the course of his work, from which he would be able to live in his old age. A colleague from the Soviet Union cited it as a reason for a possible lack of money among farmers. That's no reason for me. Even if all farmers are very wealthy people, they should re-pay mandatory pension insurance only if they want to. If they don't, they don't have to, but I repeat, they can't ask for social assistance when they're some years old. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27358	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27359	Here in the end, let's say, it was easy when the pension fund functioned in terms of young age structure, a small number of old people; the demographic situation was different, so these funds could look completely different, and of course economic. The question of complete discontinuity is very important to me to clear up, because it could or could not exist at all. The question of total discontinuity means that we don't go to current funding, that we all contribute to pension insurance, to our savings accounts, and that money is then invested in some investments, to grow and to withdraw pensions later on. The question is, how are we going to support the million and a half pensioners we already have? It's the only way to keep them out of the budget. I'm just reminding you that it takes 130 billion to do so and that we don't have these options, even if theoretical justification exists, and I don't think there's any reason for those reasons raised at the beginning, because current funding provides at least minimal security if the funds fail, if hyperinflation occurs. If there's any major irregularity going on, then those funds are going down. This is why current funding is minimal security. I'm saying, even if that theoretical reason doesn't stand, do we have a choice of discontinuity? We don't have that choice, simply because we have a million and a half pensioners and we can't choose to make our contributions now to the other side. As far as the commission's work is concerned, which is very important to me, we went out and there were several press conferences that talked about it. So, unfortunately, 30 criminal charges have been filed, the largest number of doctors who worked in the fund are no longer there. They, unfortunately, spent six months in a prison of investigation. The lawsuits are being prosecuted now. It significantly cares about the way to corruption; on the other hand, it is foreseen that the rules that will provide for the different work of committees will include another group that will consider medical documentation, which is foreseen by this law and revision, so that these three things together absolutely have to produce results. We already have results, so there are people asking if they can give up their disability pensions without consequences. There's really a big shift there. Unfortunately, I have to say, while corruption and health care are completely unaccompanied, we'll never have full results in this area either, simply because there are some things that committees do, I mean those in the Fund, they can't simply investigate, because people have to spend 15 or 20 days at the hospital to prove some things, but it's really a major shift.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27360	Thank you. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if representatives of MPs who have not used this right want a word? Here you go. The speech is attended by MP Dragan Rafaelovic, deputy president of the DHSS parliamentary group, and then by Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27361	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the people's emissaries, the Honorable Minister, I've been thinking about not answering in this principle debate. However, following criticism, mostly opposition MPs and parliamentary groups, I had to answer. I think the minister may be pleased because the criticisms are such that he doesn't even need to respond to them. Why? First, I will respond to MPs from the opposition who were in power; it is true that pension law is a problem and it is very difficult to make a quality law on pension and disability insurance for several reasons, and most of all I will remain on pension insurance for farmers. I would ask you a question, as you asked the Ministry and the Government, first of all why the pension fund remained empty, why it remained so long for pensioners, peasants, why pension insurance was introduced when no one had to pay pension insurance and when they didn't have to pay their pensions. It was obviously done to satisfy some form, to say that someone had good intentions, and then the new minister and the new government had to pay back to pensioners, peasants and to do so from a fund that doesn't exist. That goes for everyone else. As for the other funds and the old savings, what did you do with all that money, all that was robbed and destroyed, what did you do well with it? Why didn't you show us how to make a law on pension and disability insurance and just keep applying it? The second part of the story is the criticism of opposition MPs who, along with us, won power after October 5th. It is true that the situation in agriculture is bad, but why, for example, in 2000 in cattle farming found production at the level of 1910 and who is to blame? Exports are gone. Why the export of agricultural products, pretty good in the last 12 years, is interrupted, why it's gone. We know that all of this has to be solved and there's been inconclusiveness. Someone has criticised that the pension insurance law is not good that there is a decree that someone is obliged to provide. Others from the same parliamentary group have again criticised that it is not a good thing that not all of them are obliged to provide retirement. I think this law is a good and parliamentary group of DHSS will support it, has engaged in the talks on solutions, because it is a merger of real, possible and the desire of peasants. I'm talking about the pensioners of the peasants, because the fact is that some have protested, asked for it to be voluntary, I've submitted an amendment asking for it, but it's also the fact that some people want to be retired. So this bill predicts everything. The householder will be required to be provided, these are old people close to retirement and it will be fulfilled. Everyone else is not prevented from being retired, because whoever wants to, of course, will be able to do so under the conditions prescribed by this law. If we talk about pensions, in 2000 pensions were 300 dinars per insurance company, so the monthly pension of peasants was 300 dinars. This one has been nothing since 2000, which I have stated in the explanation of my amendment that I have withdrawn, but it is seven times the pension and it will be harmonised in the coming period, because it will be a great deal of pain to fill in, to be enough money to do all this. I would like to point out the most important thing: the old peasant debt, with such an increased pension, has been halved for this time in very difficult conditions. There's no reason, Your Honor, that you're very excited about these criticisms, because the law is good. I don't want to mention a lot of disabled pensioners, and they left it to us. It was known that if you wanted to go to a disability pension, there were figures, and where doctors and so on, in a sea of problems that we have to solve, and ultimately with this organized crime, it was all left to this authority. It's important that every village household knows what their parents or ancestors were like. It is known by what kind of household he left them, the heirs who came, because we know very well how we found out, this government and this MP group that supports the government, and you will all know when we leave the situation. I think that's all there is to measure. So DHSS will support this law and we think it's very good quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27362	Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27363	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, just a few remarks on behalf of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, and I have an obligation to highlight it based on the talks we had with representatives of representative unions and the written will of the Alliance of Disabilities of Serbia. In light of the need for reform of the pension and disability insurance system, as well as the introduction of principles in this area, we show absolute respect and say that we will vote in favour of the bill, but we would like to ask the Minister's attention to a few things. You're on your own, and that's what you're saying in a really good explanation, you've pointed to a number of irregularities during the '90s. By dealing with these irregularities from different aspects, we have come to a few conclusions and through the amendments we will point to the possibility of some other or slightly different solutions than those offered by the law. We are concerned about the fact that in 1990, it's actually a whole decade, it's still (and it's still going to be) a working-age population, and a new formula for calculating pensions, as it would be popularly said, implies and takes into account the entire working century, and not how it's been just 10 best years so far. Hence, we view in a certain way the discriminatory practical fact of these 10 worst years as being on us, and when I say to us, I see here a large number of my colleagues who have been most able at work at this age or in the greatest voltage of the workforce or career. What do we do with those ten irregular years, for which, of course, neither this ministry in the present system nor this government is responsible, and they have to solve this problem. Is the solution that we should be in the course of work, and in accordance with Article 46, we will talk about when there are discussions in particular, put that year; therefore, that the years when the contributions are not paid are still put into service, and then we take the overall work experience into account for the calculation of pensions, or maybe there is some other compromise solution. Our proposal is that since 1992, when an embargo or sanctions have been introduced, as it is popularly said, by the end of 2000, when they have been abolished or removed, which is eight years, that year they will be included or treated for some years of work experience. I think what I'm talking about is more important for those of you who are just about to start caring about the way you're doing your pensions and not soon, but maybe 15 years from now. It is necessary to protect this population that is, in fact, the production engine of society. She thinks of the future and how in the near future the pension fund will look like or even an inflow into the pension fund, regardless of whether it will go further into pension system reforms, and make so-called. A voluntary pension fund, along with one that includes the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I'm trying to be as concise as possible, so I'm not going into the details, but I'd like to discuss this and find a solution or at least an answer to whether we're going to be able to address this problem in the next phase of reform. We, SDP MPs, having discussed the bill, welcomed a few things. First, we will finally deal with principles, or a system that has never existed before, or not properly. Finally, we will be dealing with a restrictive aspect, or system, as you said, stimulates the payment of contributions in all stages of the working century, which we consider particularly important. Finally, we will deal with important qualities in general in the reform approach of things and laws, which is responsibility and discipline. I think all of this together will produce serious, if not to the end a stable pension fund. What scares us is that the next phase of reform is even more restrictive. If these legal solutions do not now establish discipline and accountability, then I fear that the only and logical outcome would be even more restrictive. So that it doesn't happen, let's find some kind of, conditionally speaking, compromise solutions by some points. This is one of our proposals, so given this proposal to solve those eight or ten irregular years, let's see how we're going to reduce the coefficient for that year, so that it's generally acceptable, pai the proposer, as people like to say, state. I'd just like to focus my attention on one more thing right now. This is our obligation to the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities of Work of Serbia, which, through a number of amendments, had ten objections to the text of the law, wanting to correct it. The key thing is that in the pension and disability insurance system, it should continue to remain, they say, "the Institute of Remaining Working Capability and the possibility of requalification and qualification". Because the working conditions of most employers do not get better, but worse, so keeping insurance in jobs in these same conditions, in case of improvement of health conditions, would speed up the deterioration of the situation and the full loss of work capacity. Again, we need to think of younger insurance companies, give them the possibility of retraining and deploying to another workplace, where they would work trained for these other jobs, not to say easier, full-time. It is a law on pension and disability insurance, but we need to think of workable or, simply put, a younger population that becomes a contributor to pension and disability insurance. These are two key things that we generally insist on and come from. I would also draw attention to this third one, which is the composition of the Fund's Management Board, where we ask that representation be taken into account under the criteria of representativeness and trade unions and employers' associations. When we take care of the representativeness and trade unions and employers' associations, the composition of the Fund's Management Board will be widely accepted or accepted at a satisfactory level. I'd stop here, with gratitude for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27364	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a motion for a singles bill. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27365	Dear President Micic, honourable fellow MPs, on the basis of Article 137, I propose that the National Assembly declare that the debate on amendments lasts up to three minutes at most, and given the work that awaits us today and in view of the number of amendments, in accordance with Article 81. Rules of Procedure, I suggest we work today until 20.00 hours. I ask the Parliament to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27366	The MP made two proposals. The first proposal is that, because of the number of amendments submitted to this bill, we limit the debate to three minutes in detail. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 92, against 50, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of 155 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal from the MP Sinisha Mitrovica to hold a three-minute debate on the amendment. The second proposal is that the National Assembly works today until 20.00 hours. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 93 against 48 did not vote 14 out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that we will be in session by 20.00 hours today. We're moving on to a discussion in detail. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27367	The objective of this amendment is to maintain, in Article 3, the risk of insurance for pension and disability insurance risks, another risk, which is the inability to carry out the basic needs of life on its own. The reason why we think we should keep this is because a reform of the social protection system has not been implemented, and this right will be transferred to a social protection system, which we have not yet defined. We're not sure how this issue will be solved. It is possible that this right goes into the social protection system, but as soon as the social protection system of the population is resolved and puts the right to other people's care and assistance into that system, we will know under what conditions insurance companies will exercise that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27368	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a minister. I hope you don't hear from me about every amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27369	I won't, but this is so important that we understand. Foreign care and assistance as a right already exist in social protection. The amendments that we have already submitted to the National Assembly are intended to make this right -- it was much less for the disabled, who have never worked, only 1,800 dinars -- to increase to 3,000 dinars; so slowly it approaches the significantly greater pension fund law for the same kind of inability to take care of itself, is now about 5,000 dinars. In doing so, as you can see in the transitional provisions, just when we were talking to people who are users of this right, we did not want to specify whether it would be the Social Protection Act, because there is time and we agreed to discuss it carefully and to formulate it, but that in a similar way all those who cannot take care of themselves, who need other people's care and help. So that's why it's put into transitional provisions, to the proper law, not precisely, to the social protection law, since we're still in discussions and discussions about how this institute should be formulated and within what law, but it's not something that needs to be in the pension fund according to our conviction.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27370	Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others from the SPS parliamentary group and MPs Borislav Pelevic and others from the SSJ parliamentary group. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the representatives of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27371	The Honored Presidency, Mrs Matkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has tabled an amendment to Article 5, which suggests that the words "community" should be added in Article 5(1) after the words "principals" are added. I would like to remind you that Article 5(1) states: "Retirement and disability insurance rights are obtained and achieved depending on the length of investment and the size of the base on which the contribution to pension and disability insurance has been paid and the principle of solidarity applied". We propose adding "and reciprocity", with the reason that the pension and disability insurance system is based on two interlinked principles, reciprocity and solidarity. This means that the funds for this insurance are provided by all insurance companies at a proportional rate of contribution, and they are used by insurance companies where one of the provided cases occurs. The principle of mutuality and solidarity is particularly reflected in the rights based on disability resulting from labour damage, family pension rights, in the event of the death of an insurance undertaking in the younger years, the right to the lowest pension, women's rights under more favourable conditions compared to men's insurance companies and others. So our pledge is just that, with everything that's already in place, this and that this matter is more fully regulated. We believe that there is no reason for this intervention not to be adopted, and in this regard we expect that the assembly vote will make a positive statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27372	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? He has the word of the People's Messenger Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27373	The Honorable Presidency, Mrs Micic, Members of Parliament, Honored Madam Ministers, on behalf of the Soviet Parliament group, I am representing an amendment to Article 5 of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. This article shall regulate the application of the principles for the acquisition and exercise of the rights laid down in this insurance. In this regard, Article 5(1) states: "Retirement and disability insurance rights are obtained and achieved depending on the length of investment and the size of the basis on which the contribution to pension and disability insurance has been paid and the principle of solidarity applied". In this article and in this position after the words "principals" are added to the words "community and", so that this text reads "with the application of the principle of reciprocity and solidarity". As we know, regardless of the state order and conditions of engagement in all countries in the world, the pension and disability insurance system is based on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. The principle of reciprocity implies that all insurance companies pay contributions, and the right to use only those with whom the case is secured. Although seemingly similar, these two concepts - solidarity and mutuality, however, differ. In terms of solidarity, it should be understood (of course, in my opinion and in the opinion of the SSPs) that participation is not equal, but equal distribution, and under the concept of mutual participation and distribution at the level of participation. Practically, reciprocity should also represent some kind of reciprocity. That is why we propose that the Government and the Secretary-General adopt this amendment, with the additional fact that the same amendment has been submitted by two other parliamentary groups in this assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27374	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. The government and committees propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Free Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27375	This amendment is identical to those of the predecessors. I would say here that the applicant's intensity is that the pension and disability insurance law is going towards market conditions. We believe that at this point it is not possible to implement the law in the ambience of market conditions because market conditions do not yet exist in our system. Only the introduction of the word "reciprocacy" obliges the pension and disability insurance fund to ensure that it has obligations towards its insurance undertakings in greater degree than those proposed by the provisions of this law. The amendments to the restrictions provided for by this law are in line with this amendment, which introduces the principle of reciprocity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27376	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There's a minister's word, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27377	Only one sentence, with the consultations that we have done, is solidarity is a broader concept and involves reciprocity, and that is why we have defined ourselves to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27378	Thank you. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, MP Zlatan Jovanovic and a group of MPs from the Soviet Parliament. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27379	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the Soviet Union has tabled an amendment to Article 10, which proposes to be deleted in point 3. It is a member for compulsory pension and disability insurance for agricultural producers or farmers. Why do we ask that point 3 be deleted - we from the Soviet Union think that the economic conditions in which our agricultural producers live today are very poor, that the prices of their products are very low, that there is no one to buy them, so that they do not have a safe source of income at this point, and they will not have them in the course of the year. I am sorry that the competent Minister of Agriculture and Forestry in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is more concerned with some other matters, and at least with what is in charge of the government, agricultural production, or the protection of agricultural producers or the protection of farmers involved in most cases in agricultural production. We believe that economic conditions have not been met in the state of Serbia for compulsory pension and disability insurance of agricultural producers. Here was the talk that it improved back two years of agricultural production, that agricultural pensions increased from 300 dinars to an average of 2,000 dinars and that they were 15, 16 or 14 months late. Besides, it doesn't matter, but they're late, so the question is whether, in the future, when conditions are obtained that current pension and disability insurance bonds acquire the right to receive a pension, they will welcome that day to receive that agricultural or agricultural pension, as it may already be called. We of the Serbian Unity Party believe that the moment the economic situation of agricultural producers is improved it should be mandatory for pension and disability insurance of farmers, or agricultural producers, and that these conditions are now not good. Namely, people in the village whose main activity is agricultural production finance all their activities to improve life in the country, start with infrastructure, municipal activities etc. I repeat, given the very low and insecure incomes and the very bad ransom prices, make them obliged to do so, and given their earlier debts to this farmer fund, it would make their economic situation even more difficult. Yesterday, I was saying that some other laws should allow ageing households, people who have nothing to support themselves from, and are not able because of their years of life and because of their health condition to provide for their existence, their descendants have to provide existence, or in some way state, if they have no offspring, to give their country to someone else for processing, and to allow these people to have something to live on. Those are already questions for some other laws, not this one. Finally, when it comes to the mandatory insurance of agricultural producers, a purchase of agricultural products is also mentioned. It's primarily about herding and buying cattle. I would like to point out how much the state cares for agricultural producers, and now this introduction of compulsory pension insurance is causing an additional drop in the price of the tollboys at this point, and there is no one to buy them out, and let's not look at Serbia and agricultural production just through Vojvodina. Let's start a little from Belgrade to Vranj, and you'll see that, at least when it comes to a Serbian peasant, that's the saying -- the saddest thing -- that there's no ransom at this point, the price at the market is 40 dinars per kilogram and there's no one to buy. Meanwhile, according to some information, large quantities of fresh meat were imported from abroad and thus the government "helped" the Serbian peasant, and now wants to introduce mandatory pension insurance. For this reason, I repeat once again, we of the Serbian Unity Party feel that the conditions have not been met that agricultural producers are obliged to pension and disability insurance at this time, but should leave this to their volunteering, to pay for those who believe that they have economic and financial powers to do so. On the other hand, I would like to hear statistics on how many disabled agricultural pensioners there are in Serbia today and given the increased conditions of disability pension. And the easiest way to get a disability pension is to get real conditions, legal and medical, to get a disability pension. Will the agricultural producer be able to think simply in the future that 65 years ago he can get a pension, and that pension should also be called a disability pension. For that reason, we think we should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27380	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has been given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, as the applicant for the amendment to article 10 in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27381	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to article 10 in the same form as the previous speaker. Article 10 of the proposed law defines persons necessarily insured under this law and points 3 of it is said to be farmers. The amendment, in front of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, that this point 3 is deleted, means that farmers are not compulsory insurance companies, but that, and that is our programme orientation, farmers are provided on the principle of volunteering; means, if they want that possibility to be realised. I would point out that this is in a certain way and resolved by Article 15 of this bill. In fact, Article 15 states that persons not necessarily insured within the meaning of this law can be included in compulsory insurance or other insurance, so that by adopting this amendment, nothing of a concept will change. Farmers will also be able to secure themselves under the conditions provided for by this law. In the current conditions, we find it difficult to make farmers compulsory insurance because the conditions of work and life in the country are extremely difficult. It's just that these people can't come up with the resources necessary to maintain the naked existence without talking about some insurance. For the past 20 years, if I understand this matter correctly, this mandatory insurance has been going on and there have been a lot of problems all these years with the functioning of this insurance. Namely, the amounts paid by peasants on this basis were extremely high, and rights acquired, who acquired them, extremely low and symbolic. Nothing has changed in the last two years, since DOS came to power, and the obligations remain extremely high and the rights acquired are extremely low. I would ask the minister here to tell us exactly what the pensions are made by farmers with that pension internship, or 20-year insurance, as far as they could have achieved and what obligations they had in 2003 per insurance company. The working conditions are extremely difficult, unfavourable. The state doesn't mean peasants, the state has no understanding for peasants. The Ministry of Agriculture has done nothing in these two years to help the villagers. Uncontrollable imports and what little production has survived and the rest of the village is being threatened and destroyed. This information and information on prices of pigmeat on the market makes it clear. Also, the government's hypocritical argument on the amendment, which says that a five-year standstill in the property of insurance companies for peasants is foreseen. Is it possible to predict in the future that five years will be best for peasants? Every other year we have some basic accidents, droughts, floods, the city or anything else, so it's impossible to predict ahead. What if a peasant spends five years up to his 35 years of life or 30 years of insurance, and in those 10 years, five extremely difficult elemental disasters, means difficult years, how in these cases and in these conditions will ensure compliance with the obligations of the peasants under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27382	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27383	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, bearing amendments, want to draw public attention and MPs to our party's programme, in this case socially. We advocate social justice and the status of farmers and their obligation to ensure themselves in case of age and disease, under the same conditions as other categories of population, and here I mean employees and those in the private sector, founders of independent catering, crafts, trade and other activities. Given the specificity of the work that farmers do, we should not commit them to compulsory social security. We are not satisfied with the government's argument that the obligation of this insurance is important when it comes to ageing agricultural households, the disappearance of traditional family, the poverty of households, with members over 65 years of life, because they are not treated by this law. They either won a pension or they didn't get it right. We are interested in those who have stayed in the country, young people, are engaged in agriculture and want to provide themselves in a certain way in case of age and illness. Therefore, the government should have a vision of what kind of village it will be in 10, 20 or 30 years. The government should want us to have a rich peasant, a rich village, and leave it to the peasants in that sense. to decide whether or not to apply these rights contained in Article 15, or when we have that rich peasant, they will benefit from other levels of insurance, that life at life when they can no longer work will be beneficial and that they can live on it with dignity. Therefore, given the arguments given by the Government by the rejection of the amendment, we see that nothing good is written to our village and peasants and that the Government wants to maintain the status quo and destroy the village.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27384	The word has a minister in the government, Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27385	When we talk about obligation - is it mandatory? I used to say it was only mandatory for one member of the household. If we say what's changed -- so far this regulation has been at federal level and this is now the first chance we can regulate it at the republican level. So that's changed. If there were six non-secured members in the agricultural household, then for all six members they had to pay mandatory pension insurance. This law now provides for only one member to be provided for the pension. It's a first chance for one of these changes to be introduced. Otherwise, we have 200,000 people receiving pensions. Pensions are on average 2,000 dinars now, with the delay that exists and the fact that a large number of them are only 15 years old, simply because they got into that insurance. The contribution was 800 dinars a month last year, and this year would be 1,000 dinars a month. So far, it has been the case that for six, if they have six members of the household, to pay contributions, they were all necessarily insured. What this paragraph says in reason is that these data are warning. There used to be no retirement insurance anywhere and no one. People depended on their children's age and, among other things, it was a motive for them to give birth to a large number of children, to bear as much as possible because the mortality was high, because they wanted to have male heirs, etc. So there were other age insurance mechanisms. The fact is, when you look at the most developed countries, it insists on all those who have some income to be compulsory, at least minimum pension insurance, because it happens that these people don't have any stable and safe income at their age, have nothing to live on and the state, if it's solid and responsible, has to worry about. So it's some kind of civilization fluid to tell people they need to be insured. The problem with farmers is their economic situation. Since we're talking camera-free, we can say that -- imagine that we all get the part that goes for insurance, and that once a year we have to pay a large sum of money, much bigger than what farmers pay for. It is a problem in conditions of poverty, but this mechanism is very important. We believe that by saying "backwards", one who has not paid under these circumstances has the right to stand still, so he doesn't have to pay, but in that case he doesn't count as an intern, and from now on one is necessarily provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27386	National MP Zlatan Jovanovic and MP Pop-Lazic are looking for a replica. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group -- a replica to the presentation of Minister Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27387	I'm going to say exactly the same as if the cameras are on even though they're not involved, because we're here to do our job, whether the public is following us right now or not. It's a concept of nature. I don't come from so far solutions when I'm talking about the bill and about our amendments. I'm talking exclusively about the Serbian Radical Party programme in this domain. I want to bring it closer to you, too, because I am convinced that many have not even read it, especially because these days we hear from public information; it means that you are not familiar with the Serbian Radical Party programme and here is a little bit closer to it, at least in this domain, and that we remain in the subject of which it is concerned. The constitution in Article 39(2) says "The state provides social security to citizens who are incompetent to work and do not have the means to support themselves". So that's the state's problem, not the peasants' problem, that's the farmer's problem. If they don't want to, they don't trust the state or it's a little bit of what the state will provide, if they're at the point where they have to be provided with social security, they'll pay a contribution, and they can decide and not pay, to bring themselves into such a situation to live on the edge of misery. So we have to let them decide for themselves. When we have a rich peasant and a wealthy worker, we'll see; you come from here as far away as you're going to be in a situation where you can use the third degree of insurance and make extra insurance, to secure yourself in case of age. I want us all to be in such a situation that we can spend 5,000 dinars a month alone in some of the investment funds and that we are completely dissatisfied waiting for the age to come and enjoy that pension. So the concept of nature was our amendment and you can't convince us that he's wrong. He may be unacceptable to you, but in any case he doesn't lead to a worse situation for peasants. They can use what you have proposed by law, but we must leave them the principle of volunteering, that is, that they decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27388	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) At the session of the Legislative Committee, MP Dragan Rafaelovic withdrew the amendment to Article 10(3), which he submitted along with MP Predrag Stojanovic. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 13th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urošević and Đuro Popovic and MP Dragan Čolić together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word is by MP Petar Petrovic, on behalf of the applicants for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is in close contact with the previous amendment submitted by the Soviet Parliament group. With this amendment, we ask that article 13 be deleted. Another reason why we have proposed and why we remain on this proposal is that agricultural producers are not necessarily introduced, but only voluntary PIOs. If you remember correctly, those who remember, when they were here on the agenda of tax laws, we of the Soviet Union were proposing to make a commitment to the state, when it owed to farmers to hand over agricultural products, to make it possible to beat up the debt and liabilities based on PIO. Since this is not accepted, I think it is illogical now to force agricultural producers to find funds to pay for the PIO, and at the same time the state owes them for some of the agricultural products delivered. At the same time, I would ask the Minister to explain a little bit, when article 27 comes into line, because he is in close contact with Article 13, whose deletion we propose, when the definition of what this household is and what is an obligation for a member of the family household to be insured - since there is an amendment from the DOS - Serbia's Reform, and how much I have seen the Government accept it and will probably be accepted here in the Assembly - how will Article 27, 28, and others be applied when it comes to family pensions and who will inherit that family pension, if family and those persons who have the right to inherit that pension are here. I'd like to give an example, in the country it often happens that aunts, uncles, uncles and others, even though they don't make up a family, make up a family home, have some property and can be secured. There will be this case that this person will simply leave this society and this world and that someone should follow that family pension. It says here exactly what faces they are. Since he is a member of the family household according to Article 13, whether those with him in the family household and not related to the family in a narrow or wider sense will have the right to retire under this law. There will be such cases, and it would be good to clarify that, if officials were not allowed to do so tomorrow in funds to interpret it from case to case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27390	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Colic, who submits amendments in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 in which I request that it be deleted. The position of the SRS is that farmers should not be forced into compulsory insurance. It is more rational to provide them with voluntary insurance because there are opportunities in Articles 15 and 16. Proposal of the PIO Act. It is indisputable to live under the conditions of a major economic crisis and social misery caused by your failed rule. Who is responsible for the sphere of agriculture, who causes bad material and every other state of the farmer? The incompetence of the relevant agriculture minister is evident and concern for farmers' problems is present only in cases where income is to be collected from them. The prices of agricultural products are in constant decline and below the limits of economic viability, the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the price of living cattle, milk and other products. The proposal for a Law on PIOdonal additional confusion in the area of agriculture. We have no ambition to export and this incompetence of the resolute Minister of Agriculture is fully expressed. Instead of exporting, we have an uncontrollable import of groceries. The bad proposal for a PIO law will not make the position of farmers any easier. Market surpluses are also created when it comes to living cattle, due to the very weak economic power of citizens. The farmers are absolutely unsecured and very concerned because your authority also brings them the obligation of pension insurance. The SRS believes that pension is a social category and that it does not constitute the right to work. A man can't even be in a working relationship without paying his pension insurance. Therefore, I ask that Article 13 be deleted, not necessarily PIOs should be imposed on farmers, but should leave the possibility of being included in compulsory or voluntary pension and disability insurance, under conditions, in the scope and manner provided for by this law. Your failed rule is making huge damage to the agricultural spheres, and your burdens on farmers have become unsustainable, so new obligations are completely unnecessary, but unfortunately they are the characteristic and mark of the worst regime Serbia has ever had.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27392	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Rafael and Predrag Stojanovic and MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27393	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Psalnica, the Honorable Madam Minister, in Article 33. ... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27394	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajic, Đura Lazić, Moma Radoic, Sreten Mitrović, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Zivanko Radovanče, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Borvoje Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic together submitted the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27395	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers, the SPS Group of MPs, along with the others, also submitted an amendment to Article 16(3). This view reads: "Voluntary pension and disability insurance can organise and enforce legal persons, in accordance with special law". We propose that Article 16 paragraph 3 after the word "can" add the words "by the Fund", and after the words "implement" add the words "and second", so that Article 16 paragraph 3 reads: "Voluntary pension and disability insurance can, in addition to the Fund, organise and implement other legal persons, in accordance with a special law". Under Article 3(3) of this Article, voluntary pension disability insurance can organise and enforce legal persons. This general formulation does not exclude the Fund as a legal person to organise and implement this insurance. However, we believe that item 3 should be formulated in such a way that it clearly shows that voluntary pension and disability insurance organises and implements the Fund, as a specialised institution that provides and implements and compulsory pension disability insurance, and that other legal entities can do so in addition to the Fund. I suggest that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27396	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group:
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27397	Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to comment on this amendment only because of the government's reasoning given at the time of the rejection of this amendment, not entering into whether or not the amendment should be accepted, whether it is important at this time or not, because in the principle debate we said it would be good if we had this law at the same time to regulate voluntary insurance and these investment funds. But the government says here -- the question that legal persons will be dealing with this insurance doesn't exclude the possibility of this insurance organizing and implementing the Fund. It can't be, Madam Minister, precisely because of what the issue of property in the Fundua is about the principle of solidarity. When there's an investment fund, there's no more principle of solidarity than I've given, I'm asking so much for it to come back to me and I'm deciding for myself. It's my means, and it won't be possible, I'm telling you in advance now that you know when you're preparing that bill, that an additional amount of PIO goes through and voluntary insurance. This can be done by some other legal entities, call them whatever you want, investment funds or otherwise, but there are property relationships quite different and there are funds available to those who have paid for themselves personally and there are no principles of reciprocity and solidarity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27398	The word is made by Mrs Gordana Matkovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27399	I must warn you that we in the proposal have given a formulation -- other legal persons, and that you as a parliamentary group are looking, as well as a parliamentary group of SPS, to insert explicitly -- that the Fund can carry out voluntary insurance. (Goldana Pop-Lazic, from the place: We are not looking, we do not have an amendment to this article). According to the proposal, we have an amendment to Article 16, we have provided that legal persons, and MPs are asking by amendment that the Fund must be particularly highlighted in voluntary insurance. It's not a question of these principles, because it will be formulated by a special law. The Fund’s technical performance does not necessarily mean the principles on which such insurance would be carried out. Zaci, the amendment requires the Fund to be explicitly specific. It's not a question of the bill. It says in general that legal entities can organise voluntary insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27400	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Dragan Rafaelovic and Predrag Stojanovic have written down an amendment suggesting that a new article 16a be added after article 16. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by the people's emissaries Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajić, Đura Lazić, Moma Radoic, Sreten Mitrović, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovan, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Borvoje Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic together submitted the amendments to the 18th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27401	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SPS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 18 that regulates pension and disability insurance rights, in the event of disability, where only the right to a disability pension is provided. We propose that, in Article 18 paragraph 1(2), after the word "retirement" is deleted and the words "and the right of insurance employees to deploy, i.e. second full-time employment, as well as the right to cash compensation in connection with the use of that right". In view of Article 1, a new point 5 is added to the article, which reads: "Right to cash compensation for assistance and care". Article 18 paragraph 1(2) suggests that only the right to a disability pension can be obtained after disability. The disability pension in all pension and disability insurance systems has so far been the ultimate measure in the protection of insurance companies based on disability. In addition to disability and disability pensions, pension and disability insurance systems have provided rights based on reduced, or remaining working capacity, such as the right to work with reduced working hours, the right to deploy, or to work on other suitable full-time jobs, with or without qualifications or qualifications. The lack of rights based on the reduction of working ability is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a provision of Article 40. The Constitution, in addition to the provision of compulsory insurance to employees under the law, provides them with rights in the event of a reduction or loss of their ability to work. So the rights based on the reduction in work capacity are constitutional categories. Next, Article 78. The labour law stipulates that the employed person is employed, in accordance with the pension and disability insurance regulation, the employer is obliged to ensure that the work is carried out according to the remaining work capacity and, on the basis of the risk of disability, to ensure that another job is carried out. Also, these rights are regulated and health insurance rights. It cannot be overlooked that the International Convention on Social Security, which was ratified by our country, constitutes an integral part of our legislation, regulates that matter. For those reasons, it is proposed to establish to Article 18 paragraph 1 of point 2 that, in the event of disability, in addition to invalidity pension, the insurance undertaking has the right to deploy, i.e. second full-time employment, as well as the cash compensation in respect of the use of that right, and on the basis of a reduction in the working capacity of the remaining work capacity. The removal of this right from pension-inhabited insurance in the Social Protection Act is unacceptable because this is a right to work, or not a social category. For these reasons, we propose that our amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27402	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27403	Dear fellow MPs, a group of SPS MPs have submitted this amendment with simple intent to try to ensure a greater level of rights for people who are damaged at work. In fact, we believe that this provision of the law, if it remains, would have adverse consequences for people, for the simple reason that one who works in a difficult workplace, our colleagues mentioned in the amendment and several concrete examples for such a thing, unless it becomes a classic invalid, he will not have the opportunity to carry out jobs with this reduced working ability and to hurt. We think this amendment makes sense. In an explanation of the rejection of the amendment, the government mentioned that the previous solution opened up the possibility of manipulation. That's another thing. Of course, we don't agree with any such phenomena, and it absolutely needs to be contained. But if the hard conditions at work make the worker damaged -- we even mentioned the example yesterday if he works in a chemical factory, so because of the evaporation, it's reduced part of his work ability -- it would be logical, if there's this right, to find him another job, or that he has the right to adequate cash compensation. We believe that this right has its logical meaning and the basis for this amendment is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where Article 40 says that "by compulsory insurance, employees, in accordance with the law, provide themselves with the rights to reduce or lose regular capacity". If this right were not accepted, employees would find themselves in a very difficult situation, as the employer's obligation would then be selectively interpreted. That is the obligation laid down in Article 78. The law and employer would likely find it possible for such a worker not to be allowed to do other jobs. Then he'd be forced to get that disability pension. So he becomes disabled and can't work with reduced workability. If you get a disability pension, she's very small. We believe that it also violates his right to this amendment, at least we are so confident, that it will be secured, which is why we have proposed this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27404	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants of the amendment, the word has the People's MP Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27405	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Soviet Parliament group has tabled an amendment to Article 18 that defines pension and disability insurance rights. In fact, we suggest that Article 18(2) changes and says: "In the event of disability: (1) the right to a disability pension; (2) the right to deploy, or the second full-time job; (3) the right to cash compensation in relation to the application of the right referred to in point (2) of this Article." We also propose this amendment to add a new point of 5, which will read: "In the event of the need for help and care of another person, the right to financial compensation for assistance and care". Let me explain our proposal. According to Article 18(2) of the bill, only the right to a disability pension can be obtained in the event of disability. Practically, this means that all rights based on reduced, or remaining working skills have been abolished. I will re-apply to the provision of Article 40(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, among other things, provides for compulsory insurance, employees, in accordance with the law, to provide rights in the event of reduced working ability, not only the right to lose their job." The proposed solution in Article 18 is unacceptable, not only because of that constitutional provision, but also because the proposed solutions did not take into account the very difficult conditions under which workers work and live, which is best shown by the data on working sick workers. They also did not take into account the solutions that have been laid down in labour regulations and international conventions in relation to persons with disabilities. As regards the second part of our amendment, i.e. the proposal of point 5) in this Article, this article shall be suspended from the right to cash compensation for the assistance and care of the other person, which may, under applicable rules, be granted by insurance and rights users if they meet the prescribed conditions. This right, pursuant to Article 245, is maintained in this system until appropriate regulations are adopted, probably from the field of social protection, with a more unfavourable way of harmonising with the cost of life to bring this right into line. In the light of this Article, it is stated that this right, by its nature, does not fall within the rights of pension and disability insurance. It is true that this right does not fall within the basic rights of this insurance, such as pension and disability-based rights, but, in addition, with the right to physical damage, it has always been governed by regulations in the area of pension and disability insurance. This is how these rights are exercised, and now they are allocated through contributions. In our opinion, such a commitment is not acceptable because this right still needs to be maintained in this insurance, so as to ensure that insurance and users of rights are provided in the event of the need for assistance and care of another person through payment of an adequate contribution. They cannot be equated with categories of other citizens who exercise this right in a social protection system. In particular, it should be borne in mind that this right is mainly used by disabled pensioners, whose pension amounts are very low, so that without this right they could not afford the assistance and care of the other person, especially if the amount of this fee is reduced. Out of the blue, we are confident that you will accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27406	Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Dragoljub Vojnovic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27407	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mrs Comic, this amendment also applies to Article 3. That's what Adzic was talking about. However, in an explanation of the rejection of this article, it is said this way -- "right to the cash compensation for the assistance and care of the other person, according to Article 245. The bill, which remains in the pension and disability insurance system, until this right is governed by other insurance regulations." It is even mentioned in the system of combat and social protection. That's where we had the controversy with Madam Minister at the Parliament Club and here. Obviously, there's something we don't understand. Since we don't understand each other, let me make it clear on a specific case - why do we demand that this right be reserved? In fact, from my years of practice, I'm going to give you an example of my colleague, who's a university professor. He was taken away and demanded the necessary care and assistance. You can't put him in the social case category or under the Social Care Act, because he has a wife who's a lawyer, she has kids doctors. He obtained this right by paying through the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, and he must retain that right. In view of my profession, I believe that there is a very important and psychological effect. If you ask for it tomorrow, for example. through the social aid service or social security in the municipality, they'll say -- so he's got kids in position, so he's got a house. The point is that this right must be defined by this law on pension and disability insurance. That's the essence of what we keep plowing around here and making deals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27408	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is made by Mrs Gordana Matkovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27409	First note - social protection rights are not necessarily related to the material position. So the right to social protection (that is how it stands under the current Social Protection Act) in other people's care and help does not go into the material position of a family seeking that kind of right. So it depends on the state of the person seeking that kind of right. Social protection isn't just about protecting the poor. It can also mean unconnected from a material location. These two things are not necessarily identical, nor are they now within the law. That's one question, very important, that you started. Another very important question is whether by paying his time in the fund, someone gained the right to always withdraw on that basis, because at the moment he was necessarily provided, that right existed. I have to remind you, and the lawyers would say - it's not a contract, it's mandatory insurance, it's two different things. Or I'll answer you this way: if that were the case, then in all these 20 or 30 years, none of the things about terms or rights could ever change. If that were the case, it would not be possible to suspend the right to early retirement during these ten years, the right to part-time. You worked and paid your contributions at a time when there was so-called The second category of disability, the right to work with a shortened period of time, and why would that right for all those who worked at that moment not be maintained? So mandatory insurance doesn't work on that principle. Voluntary insurance is what involves that kind of contractual relationship. This type of rights acquired, thus formulated, does not apply to compulsory pension insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27410	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word submitted by the amendment MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27411	Ladies and gentlemen, here again is the controversy of Article 18 and the addition of point 5, where the amendment provides for the right to cash compensation for assistance and care to remain in the pension and disability insurance system. You see, it's a very thin wire that we go between dehumanizing society or providing funds for other purposes and maintaining a human society, in which special care is given to these people, who are all pensioners, to provide them with other people's care and help for their lives is worthy of man. So far, it's been a practice. For two and a half years now, it has been going on to abolish certain rights, which is a specific form of dehumanisation of society, and this law is obviously one of reducing and abolishing citizens' rights, and on the other hand, poverty is growing. It would be logical that for these two and a half years, with the removal of rights and the increase of funds on the other side, citizens can make up for what the state has provided for them in some previous period. Therefore, other people's care and assistance cannot be classified, on the one hand, in any medical care, because it is de facto no health care service, but it is only a help to those persons who are in such a state that they cannot take care of themselves, and on the other hand, it is not even social assistance, especially it cannot be classified that these people experience becoming social cases, when they de facto in many cases are not. But there's another additional problem here, because this story about it being transferred to another system proves that this other system (is it the Social Security Act or the Health Insurance Act) had to be packed into a package of laws, that we could get into a situation so that we could discuss and hear opinions and others, which are now discussing health insurance laws or social protection. Then there could be stories here that really, realistically this other person's care and help should belong. Like this, I'm afraid this is a slow exclusion of the possibility that citizens will have other people's care and help tomorrow, because if she gets kicked out of retirement insurance, it's hard for someone to accept that she's involved in some other law. So it's clear that it's not a logical story to get it out of this system, because it's absolutely from the same source. By moving to the budget, and by removing from the fund, you get absolutely nothing, except slowly preparing the ground to virtually end the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27412	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27413	It is unnecessary to add any explanation that my colleague Blazic gave along with this amendment, but I am using my parliamentary right only to address the minister once more in order to draw attention to the fact that we do not have a concept law well done. In addition to what we discussed in principle, I don't think it's fully defined whether retirement is a social category or a labour law. We now see here from the reasons for the amendments that refuse that the government is not even for privatisation. In fact, the government is not aware that we have entered a phase of liberal capitalism and that the employer has some rights that the government cannot dispute or impose on him. Well, when it comes to the reduction of the working capacity and the pawning of individual parliamentary groups to make it another additional obligation from pension and disability insurance, the government transfers it to the scope of the Labour and Labour Status Act and says it is provided in that labour legislation system, because first of all it is the relationship between the employer and the employee. We, Serbian radicals, do not want to burden our employer further through all our amendments, and when it was the Labour Act, we programmeically advocated it. The employer should be charged as much as possible, given the opportunity to have full momentum to make as much profit as possible, to employ as much labour as possible, but we do not want to amnesty the state of responsibility and obligations it has under the Constitution, to protect its citizens when they are in certain situations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27414	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27415	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19(3). The government of the Republic of Serbia explains that in this article an exception was made for pensioners for the reason that this condition for obtaining age pension rights was mostly used by insurance workers working at jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration (the "beneficiary internship"), so this condition has been retained just to give these insurance companies a certain benefit. In Article 19(3), it is possible for men, when they turn 40, or women 35, at 53 years of age, to retire. When you look at this, you see a certain illogicality and it's like something or a surplus in this article or something is missing. Why did you even the years of man and woman's life in the Bill of Law, and you're not the years of employment? A man and a woman who have the right to an underprivileged internship can retire at 53 years of age. A 35-year-old woman works under the condition that she's 53 years old. The question arises what happens if a woman is 35 years old and is not 53 years old. He's in a position to work until he's 53 and turns 40. With our amendment, we wanted women to be related to 50 years of life and 35 years of employment. Having rejected this amendment, the question arises whether this government, in order to score political points, is only declaring itself to equalise women's rights, given all specificities in their working and life span.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27416	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirović, Joca Arsic and Đura Lazic submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27417	On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20 of this law, the Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, Madam Ministers, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. This article regulates the reduction of the age limit for obtaining the right to an age pension of insurance undertakings whose insurance training is calculated with an increased duration due to work on particularly difficult, dangerous and for the health of harmful jobs. In point (1), point (1) correctly reduces the age limit for obtaining age pension rights by one year for every six years carried out at the workplace where 12 months are effectively taken into account in the 14-month insurance internship. So, it's two months a year, and in six years, it's been doing it for 12 months, which is perfectly normal and fine. The problem arises in the government's proposal that does not stick to the same logic when it comes to the work of insurance companies at jobs where the 12 months spent effectively are accounted for in the insurance internship as 15, 16 and 18 months. In these cases, the Government does not adhere to a determined degree in the weight of business. The amendment therefore proposes to apply the same principle and analogy to these insurance companies, as proposed for those working in jobs where 12 months are effectively spent in an account insurance internship as 14 months. In a frontal sense, a change should be made at point 2), where in 12 months work on the insurance standing is counted for 15 months. Instead of the government's proposal to recognise an additional year in five years, a year should be recognised for four years. The bill is simple. If 15 months are recognised annually, it means an additional three months a year, and an additional year of work is received in four years. The same in point 3, where for 12 months of work in the insurance internship, 16 months are due, instead of four years, an additional year for work up to three years should be recognised. For this proposal, the explanation is simple. After four months each year, it is provided for 12 months or years in three years. Also, in point 4) where an additional year for two years of work is to be recognised in 12 months of work in an insurance internship for 18 months, instead of the government's proposal for three years, since an additional six months is to be recognised annually and it is clear that in two years of work, the additional year is to be provided. Not to go too far with reducing the age limit to obtain age pension rights and working on particularly difficult, dangerous and health-hazarding jobs, remains the position of the 2nd member, where it is prescribed that the age limit and by these grounds can be reduced up to 53 years of life. I remind you that this line has now been raised in three years, and it has been 50 years so far. However, given the explanation given, as well as the fact that an additional contribution is being calculated and paid for the insurance internship to be considered with an increased duration, it is entirely reasonable for the amendment to be accepted. The government's explanation that this condition has been inherited... I don't think it obliges anyone not to do any justice. If it was an earlier mistake, now let's correct it and accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27418	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20 that regulates the matter known to the public as an unfettered internship, which refers to an age, which I would like to emphasise, rather than a disability pension. I understand the mourning women that there are safe and disabled pensions of abuse, that there is a need to be rigorous and something to do to reduce the number of disability pensions, but to limit the age pension rights for me is unreasonable, because people like that who do their work are to be appreciated and respected. This is particularly true of attitude 2 where it says that the age limit of attitude 1 of this article can be reduced to a maximum of 53 years of life. A simple calculation of what is obtained when a person is working in a job with a well-infected job, shows that there will be cases where a worker will have to work more than necessary to achieve an age pension. We can take the most banal example. If a miner in heavy underground exploits has an underprivileged internship, he will have to work 33 years to achieve his right. So, it goes beyond that right, so in collapsing, the position 1st and the position of Article 2 is 20. Pension and disability insurance laws. Again, I would like to point out that the category of these people is strictly defined by law. This primarily refers to workers at the Ministry of the Interior and workers working in heavy factories, chemical industry, mining, energy. I think there's some conflict here between Articles 1 and 2. It's a bill of law. I suggest that the government reconsider and there is no reason to increase this age line by three years. Those who succeed, working on such jobs, to achieve what was proposed by the law, should not yet be limited to additionally working for a few years without this unfettered work experience, in order to create the right to an age pension. I would ask the chairman, regardless of the quorum is down from 126 to 84, this is a bill that requires more MPs to participate, to help the government pass as good a law as possible, so I suggest that we also establish a quorum for work, because the fact is that we are not even 50.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27420	Proposal for a quorum, please agree with the deputy president of the parliamentary group and the stenogram for the proposal to be submitted formally to the Rules of Procedure. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Chapter VI speaks about the conditions for obtaining pension and disability insurance rights, and under point 1, there are two members relating to retirement still under development of disability, family pension, etc. When we seek in Article 20 to delete attitude 2, it is not true how the government says it would be denied that an age pension is provided for the risk of age. Article 20 cannot be viewed in isolation from Article 19, which states when an insurance company is entitled to pension, all of these cases are listed, and Article 20 is said in point 3 - "when it turns 40 (a man), or 35 (a woman) years of insurance and at least 53 years of life". For this reason, despite the fact that Article 20 refers to the benefits of a work internship, we deleted attitude 2 as unnecessary, but apparently the promoter did not understand it, even though it absolutely did not change the content of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27422	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? If not, we move on to the amendment, the content of which is - Proposal to amend subtitle 2 in Chapter VI. The amendments to the subtitle 2 in Chapter VI, in the same text, were submitted jointly by the MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajić, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajić, Đura Lazić, Moma Radoičić, Sreten Mitrić, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovan, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic and joint MPs Boris Pelević, Dragan Marković, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić, Miloš Lukić, Adam Urošević and Djur Popović. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 21, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the word for the amendment has a National MP, Dragoljub Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27423	Mrs. Komic, colleagues and colleagues, for me and Mr. Adzic, this is a key amendment to decide whether we will vote in favour of the law. Why? In the bill, disability is defined as a total loss of working ability. Such a formulation excludes the possibility that a partial loss of working ability, a reduction based on which it may exercise any right from compulsory pension and disability insurance, may arise in the course of an employee's insurance. A colleague Adzic explained that this is affecting constitutional rights. As a doctor, I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about something else, and I'm going to try to support it by example. First, how to define disability - there is no possibility for those on the medical board to define this disability. Is it defined as a loss of total work capacity or defined in relation to the job that the insurance company is doing? In the old law they give parameters about what is appropriate and what is inappropriate work. To make this clear, Madam Minister, let me give you an example. In my long-standing medical practice, I almost had a case where a man lost his ability to speak, and he's a professor. He even knows how to write. It's a professional term for us in neurology. How are you going to define this man now -- is he losing his total working ability, or is that a loss of partial working ability? Secondly, to make the trouble even bigger, the Employment Act says that after nine months, any job can be offered and it is deleted from the list of unemployed. Therefore, the argument here given that this amendment should be rejected does not stand. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. I appeal to you for our amendment to be included in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27424	Is there anyone else who wants a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 21, on which amendments in the same text were submitted jointly by the MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajić, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajić, Đura Lazić, Moma Radoičić, Sreten Mitrić, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovanovic, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic and joint MPs Boris Pelevic, Dragan Marković, Petar Petrović, Milos Lukić, Adam Urošević and Djur Popović. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants, the word for the amendment has a People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27425	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as another reform law, and, according to us Socialists, for future pensioners very repressive, in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment with my colleagues to article 21 of this law. Otherwise, Article 21 of this Law lays down a new way of formulating the loss of working ability as a condition for obtaining the right to a disability pension, so that the loss of employment is not only valued in relation to its work but rather in relation to the general ability, i.e. Inability to do any work. We suggest that, in Article 21, the words "complete" are added to the words "and permanent", and after the words "ability" add the words "or reduced working ability". The reasons for this amendment are as follows. When it comes to the loss of working ability, on the basis of which the right to a disability pension is acquired and obtained, that loss should be in addition to full and permanent, and it is indisputable, can be determined after the completion of the treatment, or medical rehabilitation, as it has been in the PIO system so far. When an insurance undertaking is entitled to a retirement pension, as referred to in Article 98. The labour law ceases employment, independent of his will and of his employer's will, due to the loss of his ability and that on the day of delivery of a valid solution to determine loss of employment. If the insurance company did not have a permanent disability, it was determined after the appropriate time that there was no longer a loss of employment, then it would have lost its pension, as it had previously lost its employment. In that office, he could not claim a cash payment. The extension of disability and the reduction of working capacity is in accordance with Article 18, according to which, in the event of disability, the right to a disability pension, the right to deploy, or the second full-time job, as well as the right to cash compensation on that basis, on the basis of a reduced, and according to the remaining working capacity, to be defined by the new member of the law. Provision of Article 21 The bill is anti-constitutional and violates Article 40. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where compulsory insurance is intended to provide itself with the right to health care in case of illness, pregnancy, childbirth, as well as in case of reduction or loss of employment. Thus, the Constitution provides for the obligation of the Republic to provide compulsory insurance and in the event of a reduction in work capacity. I urge you to accept this amendment in the voting day and reduce the uncertainty of all employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27426	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) On behalf of the promoters of the amendment, the word has a People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly Group of the Soviets has proposed an amendment defining the rights of the PIO, directly related to amendment 6 of our parliamentary group to Article 18(2) of the bill. This was explained by colleague Adam Urošević. In Article 21, after the word "complete" is added, the words "and permanent" are added, and after the words "ability" are added to the words "or decreases in working ability". Let me explain this amendment; in order for the insurance company to gain the right to a disability pension, it is necessary to provide that loss of working ability can be not only complete, but that it must also be permanent, as provided for in the applicable regulations. In the case of insurance undertakings, disability would not be permanent, after a certain time, it could be established in the re-process as provided for in Article 97. The bill says there's no longer a loss of his ability to work with him. That would practically mean he's out of a pension. Since a disabled pensioner had previously lost his job, according to Article 98. The labour law would mean that it has no means to live, which is certainly unacceptable. I will give an example; if a pensioner in this case is 58 years old, the upcoming law on employment and insurance for random employment even provides for a fully unacceptable member to have a national minority priority in employment. What would that mean? Citizens who run out of retirement at that age, especially Serbs, could never have obtained acceptable employment. In addition, we suggest extending the concept of disability. A new Article 21a is added. There is a loss of working ability in an insurance company if it is fully and permanently incapacitated to perform any other full-time job. The reduction in working capacity exists in an insurance company that can no longer work on the job at which it is deployed, but can, according to the remaining working skills, with normal work effort that does not endanger its health status, work on a second full-time job. The second job in terms of Articles 1 and 2 of this article means a job that according to professional preparation... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... And the remaining workability insurance can work full-time. If Amendment 6 to Article 18 is accepted, it is necessary to accept this amendment as well. This amendment 8 to Article 21. The bill proposes extending the concept of disability, the precise concepts of loss of working ability, reduced working ability... (President: Four minutes. ) Without these terms, Article 21 could not be applied, as well as the other members of the bill concerning this issue could be defined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27428	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to an amendment whose content is the proposal to add a new Article 21a after Article 21. The amendment to add a new article 21a was submitted jointly by Members Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajić, Đura Lazić, Momir Radoičić, Sreten Mitrić, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Zivanko Radovanček, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Slobodan Tomovic, on behalf of a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27429	Dear Mrs. Komic, Mrs. Matkovic, this amendment is the last in a set of amendments that the SPS parliamentary group has tried to improve the disability pension chapter in general and, by our assessment, something that would make more sense. Why do I say it's the last one in a set of amendments? Our first amendment was to change Chapter 2 and it wasn't just a lecturing intervention. We're instead of calling it chapter two. The disability pension, they thought it was supposed to be called-- 2. It's the right thing to do with disability. The next amendment we say, which was discussed by colleagues Rajic and a fellow member of the Soviet Parliament, that disability exists with the insurance company when total and permanent loss occurs. That was our lead. We said, "loss of work ability," but we added, or reduced working ability, to give the possibility to consider these things, too. If both are accepted, then as a ligious trail of further efforts to regulate the area is our pledge to add a new Article 21a after Article 21a, which we explain what we mean by reducing our working ability. We mean that "there is an employee who, with a normal working effort that does not endanger his health, can no longer work on a job at which full-time has been deployed. The remaining work capacity exists with an employee who is able to, with normal work effort that does not endanger his health, works on a second job full-time. The second job within the meaning of Article 2 of this article means a job which, according to professional preparation and the remaining work capacity, an employee's insurance company can work full-time." So, we think that by accepting a set of these amendments to the very name of the chapter, but also to Article 20 and 21, with the addition of this one here, those other circumstances that could arise, which in this case would be more favourable. I think the purpose of every law is not to be restrictive, but to be favourable to those for whom it is brought. Of course, I hope at least one of our amendments will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27430	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27431	If you have noticed, respected colleagues, the minister did not find it appropriate to comment on any of the amendments in this Chapter VI relating to the conditions for obtaining pension and disability insurance rights, and I will assume that this is the case to say it out loud, because not only is there no more rights in the event of reduced working capacity, but there will obviously be no more rights, no more disabled pensioners. If we get a chance to keep an eye on it, no matter what corruption is said to be, and I don't know what all the problems with obtaining the right to a disability pension, you'll see how many disabled pensioners are going to be here from the adoption of this law by the end of the year. Yesterday someone here said, what if a man doesn't have one hand, whether he's retired or not, has a reduced ability to work, he's really just going to stay to cut off the other hand to get some pension, because who's going to take him with one hand to work. You understand, a private employer has the biggest problem finding a good worker. He wants a worker who brings him a profit, who can work 24 hours, doesn't want to go to sick leave, who's healthy, and the state has to take care of these people in an adequate way, because they're not to blame for getting to that condition that they're no longer working or fully working. But both the government and the minister know, ask the people who work in commissions, ask the doctors, and among you there are many doctors who know that a certain man is on board, that he has all the conditions to retire, and those on the commission say -- you know, we got an order, he can't, the exact number is as specific as he can retire you this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27432	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal to add a new Article 21a after Article 21. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 21a be added after article 21. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Any of the other authorised participants? No, I don't. ) The proposal to add new members of 21a, 21b and 21v after Article 21. National MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic together submitted an amendment to add new members of 21a, 21b and 21v. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27433	This group of amendments is a consequence of the amendment to Article 21, which defines the notion of disability, and aims to define in Articles 21a, 21b and 21v its work, other relevant work, total loss, loss of work capacity, reduction of work capacity and remaining work capacity. So these amendments only make sense if the previous amendment is adopted to Article 21. Invalidity should be interpreted beyond what is proposed in Article 21 of this proposal, to be interpreted as a total or partial loss. But what did I notice here? I have noticed that, as suggested, Article 21 will be problematic in application. In the process of skills, means in the process of recognising the right to pension and disability insurance, the body of art, the doctor, the expert, in determining disability, will have a lot of problems in terms of parameters, how they will declare someone completely incompetent to work, if before that the law has not defined the loss of working ability, what is its job, what is second appropriate and what is another inappropriate job. Our goal wasn't just rights, because this law needs first of all to determine the status of such persons. Even the government can add amendments to which it will define rights, above all to other relevant jobs and to cash compensation. It can be said that the law on the employment of disabled persons will establish that right, as well as the right to compensation. So there must be a connection between the status and the right of that person in some other law. This is how relationships would get lost. Because watch out, if disability is a complete loss of working ability, and you have a labour law that says that disabled people will be particularly protected, where they are determined to retire and no longer have a working relationship. How will such a person be protected under the Law of Labour? No, because we won't have this relationship that has to exist between the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act and the Labour Act, or employment laws, unemployed persons or people with disabilities, anyway. That was the goal. The problem that Professor Vojnovic presented earlier remains, that is, when a doctor - an expert determines disability, he will be in a dilemma: whether the work ability will be declared according to general or working capacity in terms of qualifications and professional training of the person for the job on which he was found during the insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27434	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27435	Ladies and gentlemen, using the powers laid down in Article 96, I warn you of Article 82(2) that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if at least one third of the MPs are present, and that the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 94, is authorised to terminate the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum. You can really see from this place that for an hour, and maybe longer, we don't have a quorum to work, and at the beginning of the session you voted that we're working until 20 hours today and I think it's really inappropriate. Please determine the quorum to ensure that the Assembly does indeed work in the composition as provided for by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27436	I ask the people's heirs, due to the question of the electronically declared quorum and the real state of the room, to insert the cards into the identification units to determine the quorum. I realize we have a quorum and we continue to work. The word is from Mrs Matkovic, Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27437	In the previous debate, there were a large number of amendments to the 21st multiple parliamentary groups. I'd say that's where two important questions were raised. One is the reduction of the ability to work and the right to be drawn from the pension fund on that basis. The second question is the very definition of disability. So all of these amendments are given to Article 21, in fact, can be grouped, essentially, into these two issues. When it comes to reducing work ability, we talked a lot about it in the principle debate. The question whether a member of the Constitution undertakes to provide pensions to reduce work capacity or only says it is compulsory insurance. Secondly, when we listen to the debate - what it means to reduce work ability, does a man have the right to deploy to another workplace? They're disabled workers. It is said that it is people, their employment and employment, and in this context the question of where this reduction of work capacity should be defined as a parent issue and where it should be financed. Convincing whoever created this concept is that it's a question of hiring disabled people, their rights to deploy to other jobs and that it's a question of the Employment Act. Let's put it this way -- when the budget rebalance went, you saw the Fund's plan. What is given for these profits compared to what is totaled from the Fund, it is on an annual level of sixty-sixty-seven million. When we're talking 150 billion out of the pension fund, you can't say it was a motive. Indeed, the question arises, firstly, in the context of the market economy, where many possibilities for agreements are opened, how this fee will be drawn from someone third. The question is, what about these people who have reduced working skills? The main problem is that they get a job, stay at work and work. If that's the basic problem, then, by my deep conviction, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund shouldn't be involved. Not in terms of providing services, if they are these commissions, and I think they should be health commissions, that's a third question, but then it's the Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities that has to define and resolve this issue. When it comes to the question...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27438	Three minutes. In accordance with Article 137. The Rules of Procedure, the duration of the debate on amendments, concerns all participants in the debate, as well as the order in which participants in the debate can receive a word in particular. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments to add a new article 24a, in the same text, were submitted jointly by the MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajić, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Andjelković, Rade Bajic, Đura Lazić, Moma Radoičić, Sreten Mitrić, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovan, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic and joint MPs Boris Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrović, Miloš Lukić, Adam Urošević and Jura Popović. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27439	Mrs. Comic, Madam Minister, honourable Members of the People, we have submitted an amendment to add a new Article 24a, which reads: "Invalid of work, within the meaning of this law, is an insurance company that is entitled to pension and disability insurance in the event of disability". Who knows the existing law sees that this is the definition of invalidity of the work of a valid law, and we think it should be repeated for several reasons. I think we'd be the only country in the world that wouldn't have a definition of disability. First of all, it must be different from other disabled persons. Secondly, disabled work already exercise certain disability-based rights, and with this concept it is also found in other systems, such as labour regulations, employment regulations, as in the International Convention on Social Insurance, especially in the International Convention on the Minimum Social Conditions and Social Security, which disability labour must have. As I said, if this definition did not remain in this new law, it would probably be one of the few or only countries that would not have this definition, especially if disabled workers were already exercising some disability-based rights, and it is known in the current law that it is a disability pension or a loss of ability based on disability. For that reason, when it comes to voting day, I think the minister should accept this amendment that we have filed on behalf of the SPS, and I see several other parties. We believe it is realistic to accept this amendment, i.e. to remain an old definition in the new law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27440	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new subtitle be added after Article 24a. The legislative committee shall, on the basis of Article 142(4). Rules of Procedure, rejected this amendment, which is why the amendment cannot be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly and in accordance with Article 5(5) thereof. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amendment, with correction, which is proposed to add a new subtitle to article 25, was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajic, Đura Lazić, Moma Radoičić, Sreten Mitrić, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovan, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (The amendment bearer, with an argument from the post, is convinced of the vote for the amendment. Does anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27441	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 26 has been regulated when disability occurs 30 years ago. This is the real graduation: under point 1) if disability occurs until the age of 20, the legislator sets out the condition that such disability has one year of insurance training; 2) if disability occurs up to the age of 25, it is a condition that it has at least two years of insurance training; 3) if disability occurs up to the age of 30, if there is at least three years of disability. We are asking by amendment for a reduction in these terms of insurance, up to the age of 20, regardless of the length of the insurance training; so, if it was two, one day secured, it has the right to a disability pension. In this category of 25-year-olds, we're looking for nine months, and in the third category, we're looking for a year of insurance. Insurance companies who have experienced disability in the 30th year of life, the right to a disability pension should be allowed under much more favourable conditions, at least as it has been so far. We will never agree to any government proposal that goes towards a reduction of rights. It simply does not come into consideration at a time when we have a reform government, which has promised to get much better, that the standard will be higher, that the budget will be able to serve everything it needs, that it will regulate this area, that one; it has promised all categories of the population a better life; we also want to force the government to make its promises, given in the pre-election campaign in 2000, to its voters. Therefore, if so far it could be as we have suggested, especially as in Article 25 paragraph 1 of point 2) for all other categories of population, regardless of age age - which means that they do not have that age limit for retirement - requires a minimum of five years of internship, then for these categories of population, which we can really consider very young, if they come into this unfortunate situation to become disabled, more favourable conditions should be allowed to obtain the right to disability pension.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27442	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27443	Dear fellow Members of the People, I think this amendment is good and the SPS parliamentary group will support it. In fact, the amendment itself is essentially trying to make a positive step towards a solution in the law; it is extremely restrictive, unfavourable for people under 30 years of age. In these three lines of reasoning, the government has tried rather unmistakably, which is not possible, to explain why people under 30 are subject to certain conditions if disability occurs. I'm saying this for the simple reason that it's a difficult subject, a bad opportunity for someone to become disabled at that age; it would be logical for the law to be open to him in terms of convenience. In fact, we with this population, as a society, as a state, have big problems anyway. I must remind myself that there are millions of unemployed people in Serbia, that the vast number of people and populations under 18 are on the poverty line, that the current economic picture of Serbia does not give hope for a large number of new jobs and jobs. And when that young man barely gets a job, and yet, God forbid he gets hurt, to be disabled, then there's no rational reason for these conditions to be restrictive. That's why I think this amendment is good. Simply because it sets minimum requirements that if a young person, under the age of 30, and an employee, is injured, disabled, can exercise certain rights that belong to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27444	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. National MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new subtitle and a new member be added after article 26. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a People's MP, Free Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27445	This amendment is also due to an amendment to Article 21 which we wanted to define disability as a complete or partial loss of working ability. The amendment provides for rights in the event that an insurance undertaking is subject to reduced working capacity and the right to deploy to another relevant job, then to requalification or qualification, or cash compensation as a second right in relation to the status of the person with the remaining working capacity. I have just commented on the situation if the insurance company determines a reduction in working ability, that it is necessary to define this law and its right to deploy to another relevant job and compensation. No final solution has been given here, however, we believe that the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, as well as the employer, cannot be fully free of obligations towards such a person. Now it's the government's solution possibly to suggest. The Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities fully exempts the Fund from the obligation of such persons to be employed in the field of the Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities would fully release both the Fund and the employer from the obligation to hire such persons. I think the possibility must first be used by the employer, and then other options, in the protection workshops, etc. As for the right to compensation, a certain fee should also be paid to such a person. Whether it will be linked to the difference in salary or subsequent requalification, etc., that is a question the government would have to resolve again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27446	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, with the correction of which they propose to add a new subtitle behind Article 26, was submitted jointly by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajić, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajić, Đura Lazić, Momir Radoičić, Sreten Mitrić, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovan, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. On the basis of Article 142(4) of the Legislative Committee, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure rejected this amendment, which is why the amendment cannot be discussed at the session of the National Assembly and in accordance with Article 5(5) thereof. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amendment, which is proposed to add new members of 26a and 26b, together with Members Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajic, Đura Lazić, Momir Radoičić, Sreten Mitrić, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovanček, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. On the basis of Article 142(4) of the Legislative Committee, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure rejected this amendment, which is why the amendment cannot be discussed at the session of the National Assembly and in accordance with Article 5(5) thereof. Rules of Procedure. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27447	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have tried this amendment to equalize the marriage and nonmarriage communities, which are already equalized in the Marriage Act. Since maintaining the basis for such a solution in the Marriage Act is necessary, I think it is necessary for this material security, which is carried on by an out-of-marriage friend, to be transferred to a supported person after his death. In the rejection of such an amendment, I think there is no place, for the simple reason that supporting the fact that the equality of the marriage and the extramarital community in the Marriage Act is based on, so I don't see why it can't be passed on to the pension insurance law. I think the explanation, if it's waiting for family and other laws to change, and then changing the Pension Insurance Act, does not legally stand for the simple reason that I predicted that after three or a year of community life where there are children, pension insurance should be provided for an out-of-wedlock friend, so it would be a continuation of the support that the supported person had during the life of the insurance company. I ask you to consider this amendment and to adopt it for these reasons, as well as explanations why it should not be the government's argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27448	Gordana Matkovic, minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27449	I must say that in the first draft of the law, we had the same idea, but that the simple legislation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia explicitly believes that - since, according to the Law on Inheritance, an extramarital friend is not equal to a spouse, because there is no right to legal succession, and there are problems relating to the Law on Marriage - that kind of proposal cannot be introduced first into the law on pension and disability insurance. Although we fully support the essence, it is an explanation of why the government has rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27450	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27451	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party has proposed an amendment to add a new position to Article 29, which reads: "Right on a family pension there are also limbs in which pregnancy has been determined and the child of the deceased insurance company, i.e. the beneficiary of the right, was born after his death." In heading 3 which becomes heading 4 after the word "and 3"), the words "paragraph 2" are added. By the proposed amendment, allow me to explain it, one or more children who are entitled to a family pension after the death of a spouse are provided with a consistent application of Article 3(3) of this article, and the limb carries out a parental duty to those children. In this addition, it is specified that this right also has the limbs in which pregnancy has been established and if she has given birth to a child of a deceased insurance company, i.e. the beneficiary of the right after his death. In this case, we point out that in all current pension and disability insurance systems, this limb was entitled to a family pension, so I suggest that the minister adopt such a precise amendment, as it also promised to the Committee on Labour and Combat Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27452	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Mircic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 29a be added after Rule 29. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is made by Mrs Gordana Matkovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27453	So the argument is legal, and it's said to be a general legal norm according to which an unborn child is considered to be born, if it's in his interest; it's not at all controversial, it's simply understood, and there's no need for such an amendment to be added.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27454	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27455	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't quite understand what Ms. Minister said; Article 29 regulates the right to marry a family pension and three cases are listed, but it is missed that, in accordance with the second law of what is considered to be a child born in marriage, it also states here that the right to a family pension has also been determined by the limbs of pregnancy, as well as the widow who gave birth to a child of a deceased insurance company, i.e. the beneficiary of the right after his death, by the fact that it belongs to her from the day of death of an insurance officer, i.e. the beneficiary of the right. If a child is born dead or dies before six months of age, the limbs are entitled to a family pension until the end of six months after delivery. The explanation is that the death is considered a child born in marriage. It's regulated by another law, and that's why it's necessary to predict, and that's the situation where the limb can be found for the sake of gaining the right to a family pension, so if it's not at all discriminatory, and I don't see where the member is contained, then the government could accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27456	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment is the proposal to add a new member of 29a, together submitted by national MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajić, Đura Lazić, Momir Radoic, Sreten Mitrić, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovanče, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of a group of applicants, the amendment has a People's MP, Živodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27457	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, as you can see, there are few variations by parliamentary groups related to the amendment to Article 29 and how to define this 29a article that would be understood in this law. For us MPs, in order not to repeat myself, we all know that this applies to a child who is practically not born, and by birth there is no father unfortunately for the sake of the death of his parents. For us, this is not exactly defined in this law, although I cannot say that we cannot accept the argument given by the government and just now Minister Matkovic to regulate the general legal norm. However, given that neither we, the MPs, are all lawyers, and probably not even families who might have such a need, we felt that because of the importance and because of our basic concern for the child, we should potentiate it, extract it from the context, and make it really maximum for that child to live in quality, if he can; because there is no money for me that could compensate for the lack, in this case, father. That's what I think of any parent. I'm a little bothered by how it's said in the explanation, it's practically known that it's the same status of a child in an intrauterine period and by birth, but it's said-if it's in his interest. Ugly is said; in whose interest-child; I guess it is in the interest of both family and society, and every child to be born alive and healthy. I appeal, simply, if there is any possibility, to accept it. If you guarantee that this is understood and that it will be clear to the people, indeed, as a representative of the SPS MPs, I can accept that argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27458	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27459	I disagree with the government's argument again, but I'm not going to qualify him. I think this is about typical birth defects. Here, once I begin to advocate this gender equality, because it always looks like I'm protecting women in every single one of my reports in the Assembly. I think we're asking for more favourable conditions to be given to women, however, that there is no special basis for the exercise of that right. Men must have the same resolved situation if they remain widows before they were 48, through the kind of solution I made in the amendment. So I don't think the government's argument is true, that women usually have benefits under this law. I agree with him, and I guess we all do. These are more favourable conditions. The basics have to be equalized by men and women, and that's why I've proposed an amendment like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27460	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I'm setting a break. Working in the afternoon part of the session, at 15.00 hours, we continue the amendment to Article 33, which was submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and members of the SSP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and we can continue to work on the debate in detail on the draft law on pension and disability insurance. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the representative of the amendments want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Parliament Group has proposed that the amendment be replaced by "60" and "58" by "55" in Article 33(1). Let me explain this amendment. In order for a parent to exercise his right to a family pension, two conditions are foreseen which must be fulfilled cumulatively: that he was sustained to the death of an insurance undertaking, i.e. the beneficiary of a right and that he had completed certain years of age. We believe that the years of age proposed in this article are too high and should be reduced as proposed by the amendment. Otherwise, those persons, parents, would lose their means of life because they could not be employed, given the years of life and the state of employment. We point out that according to a valid solution, a parent achieves this right with 58 years of age, or 53 years of life - women. Our proposal is between the old and the new solution. That is why we consider this solution acceptable, and in particular we point out and warn that the upcoming employment law suggests that ethnic minorities have a priority in employment. What will happen to Serbs in Kosovo, in the Raška area, in the north of Backa, will these Serbs, who are 50 years old, be able to work and will have the means to live? For this reason, we suggest that this amendment be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27463	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have proposed that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here, the word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27464	Dear colleagues, in addition to the government's explanation and the rest I've heard so far, I'm still staying at my position on the status of an out-of-marriage friend or friend; I don't like the term, but what I can do, it's the law. Since I have stayed with the amendment to Article 28 and insisted on it, in case we adopt the amendment to Article 28, then it would be a huge mistake not to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27465	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirović, Joca Arsic and Đura Lazic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so it finds that this amendment has become part of the draft law. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new subtitle and new members of 36a and 36b be added after article 36. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly Group of the Soviet Union has proposed adding a new subtitle and two new members after article 36, which reads: "3/a. Rights based on reduced working capacity; Article 36a - Insurance company, according to reduced working capacity, acquires the right to deploy, i.e. second full-time employment. The insurance undertaking referred to in Article 1(1) shall acquire the right to deploy, i.e. second full-time employment: 1) if disability is caused by work injury or professional illness; 2) if disability is caused by disease or injury outside work, provided that he has completed a retirement period of at least five years. Exceptionally, from the provisions of Article 2(2), an insurance undertaking where disability is caused by disease or injury outside work occurred before the age of 30 years of life, the right of the attitude of the 1st member shall be obtained: 1) if disability occurred before the age of 20 of life, regardless of the length of the insurance period; 2) if disability occurred up to 25 years of life - if the disability has a total of at least six months of insurance training; 3) if disability has occurred until the age of 30 - if the disability has a total of at least one year of insurance. Article 36b - Ossuary employed with reduced working capacity has the right to cash compensation during the day of disability until the day of deployment, i.e. second-hand employment." Let me explain this amendment to you. He is related to the amendment to Article 18, which my colleague Adam Urosevic presented, and for these reasons we suggest that this amendment be accepted to Article 18, as well as to this one because of interconnection.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27467	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 37. The bill, in front of the SRS, so that the title above that article is "4. The financial compensation for physical damage, and Article 37 of Article 2, is amended and reads as follows: "The security officer whose physical damage is the renting of 30% gains the right to cash compensation". I'd like to explain this amendment. There is no reason for insured persons whose physical damage has been caused for any reason not to receive the right to cash compensation. I would like to set an example; working in the chemical industry, I know that despite the protection of work, there are very often injuries to workers and reduced working skills. There was formerly a practice by the far-reaching commission to determine the extent of the damage and propose a change of jobs, which has been abolished by the current law. By selling the company, these persons today remain jobless and without compensation for physical damage. Ladies and gentlemen, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund or any institution should take care of these persons. You are proposing this law as an improvement in the previous, reform law that has many shortcomings and intricacies in it. You can't afford money for this fund now, because you've closed many private companies, you've sold many companies, and the production process isn't continued. The MPs of the SRS pointed out that there would be a problem. Many times after this assembly speaker, Prof. Vojislav Seselj pointed out that sheep are cut once a year, not more times. If she gets a haircut in the winter, she dies. In many private businesses today, it's black. You have failed to prevent the work of these black workers, and therefore workers are unable to collect these damages or be deployed to some job that corresponds to their physical damage. That's why I think my amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27469	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a minister, Mrs Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27470	To avoid confusion, an insurance company whose physical damage caused by work injury or professional illness is 30%, is entitled to cash compensation, and this law provides for it. I suppose the urgency of your amendment was to pay the fee even if the physical damage occurs independently of work. It is provided for in Article 37 that an insurance undertaking, when a physical injury caused by a work injury or a professional illness exists and is 30%, acquires the right to cash compensation. That right, if it's caused by a work injury or a professional illness, there's this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27471	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27472	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that Article 18 paragraph 1 point 4 provides for the right to pension and disability insurance in the event of physical damage caused by work injury or professional illness. The insurance company is entitled to a cash compensation for physical damage. Now tell me the difference between an insurance company that gets hurt outside of work, gets sick of some disease, not related to a profession he deals with, and why he doesn't have the right to cash compensation. He's the same insurance guy, works man, he's busy, pays the same contributions as this guy. You may think there's no room for that kind of damage compensation in this law, but then tell us what law he's got and what law he's got. He has to be somehow protected. The explanation that you are giving that since 1997 there has been no right to compensation based on physical damage, caused by illness or injury at work, has nothing to do with it. He can't amnest you from some obligation or from some principled attitude if it's not in the current law or it was abolished in 1997. Don't turn around all the time. Take a look in front of you, have a vision for the future, so that vision, if possible, becomes as pink as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27473	Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27474	Who hurt himself at work or due to a professional illness has this right. But the question arises: what right does a man have to suffer from physical damage or someone else, not a professional out - of - work illness? The question is whether it should be covered by compulsory or life insurance, so someone who wants to ensure life for themselves needs to do it for themselves. That's two separate questions. What it says, it's a simple note that it hasn't existed since 1997 in the system, is not an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27475	Members of the 38th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Đuro Popovic and MP Slobodan Janjic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 40, and I suggest that the words "provoked by work injury or professional illness" be deleted in that article. It's not this reform law, it's not for the future, it's to supplement the number in the domestic task DOS received from the White World Powers. A whole set of laws that we, as MPs in this esteemed home, have adopted and commented on from the same kitchen proposed to this house. Imagine, gentlemen, this law that solves the pension and disability issue today, when we don't even have the elemental coordinates of how to start production from which some law should come that solves questions for at least two or more generations. This one's not working it out. This law only has a task to stop the flow. We Serbian radicals believe that the speed of adoption of this law does not resolve this area without completing the accompanying laws that make up a single conglomerate. The old law could be corrected by certain changes and this would be a easier and more acceptable way. A million and two hundred thousand pensioners need to fit into this law and all the new people who gain law and are bound by this law. Today is the retirement of old, tomorrow a new law will come without money, and in the future is being considered at the world and global level - what will that pension do to you gentlemen? The literacy of the law is low. Looks like the law's been prescribed from some language that doesn't match our language. I could do it now, but time won't let me comment on everything that's negative, but I think it's a demographic issue. It is a white plague that has affected Serbia and needs to be dealt with with by several legal projects, and in this legislative project it is not resolved. You didn't mention mother to any of the five children. This was to be resolved so that mothers who gave birth to four and more children have this law some minimal advantage over everyone else, because they protect the national being of our community with their own stand. This law reduces the number of rights and even those rights that have already been acquired.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27477	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27478	The honourable MPs, and this amendment follows the intensities of the SRS parliamentary group to change the title above Article 37, and that all these members equally refer not only to the financial compensation for physical damage caused by work injury, or professional illness, but to all persons who have insurance status, regardless of where the injury occurred, or whether a disease that is not related to a professional disease occurred. A moment ago, Madam Minister told us that this belonged to the sphere of some other insurance, I suppose, life insurance; but, to be realistic and to count ourselves here, let those who have life insurance in that sense, except for those who have some compulsory insurance, there are not many. In schools, we pay child insurance if they steal their shoes and stuff, or if God forbid they get hurt, but we don't have this kind of insurance. So it would be very wise to include it in this law at this point, in order to bring all insurance companies in a level playing field in some way. That is why, by following that intensity, we ask that only these parts of the sentence be deleted - caused by a work injury or a professional illness; that insurance companies be in an equal position. No one can convince me there can be a variety of abuses, because if you allow it, a case about work can take place. Let's just say, I'm sick, I have some kind of injury, and now I want to prove that this is where the work-related case took place. I'm supposed to take the bus to my firm to get some leads, and then I'll get a physical damage fee. There was some kind of injury, and I was actually going to go check out the buttocks and buy some shoes. I need two witnesses to improvise this situation. Therefore, there is no need to throw out such a right to insurance. It would be far more humane, and I think the government should start thinking about the interest of the insurance company first. It's coming out of their pockets, it's coming out of that fund, and if the fund's small, it's going to have to get a little bit out of the budget. How the state's going to secure that in the budget is going to come from donations. You know, there are funds in the world, pensions, in which you can invest through donations, because those funds are then tax-free. Many people, many businessmen and how high funds invest in these funds, because it is a kind of donation. There's still no such thing with us, unfortunately, because it's not being propagated. With us donations are meant for some other less important and less humane things.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27479	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new subtitle and new members of 40a and 40b be added after article 40. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have proposed that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27480	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's People's Parliament, the Soviet Parliament's Group has proposed an amendment governing the PIO, and apparently the legislator did not provide for the right to cash compensation for assistance and care. After Article 40, a new subtitle "4a is added. Money compensation for assistance and care" and two new members; Article 40a: "Right to financial compensation for the assistance and care of another person, if because of the nature and severity of the injury or disease, necessary assistance and care to perform the operations to meet the basic needs of life, there is an insurance, pensioner and disabled person working with reduced working capacity"; Article 40b: "The need for assistance and care of another person exists when the person from Article 40a of this law in the course of the life of the insurance becomes immobilised, as well as if due to the severity and nature of permanent illnesses and the sick condition is not able to move independently in the context of the apartment using the appropriate aids, nor to feed, strip and dress and maintain basic personal hygiene, as well as a blind person who has lost a sense of light with an accurate projection and face that achieves vision with correction of 0,05". Let me explain this amendment. If Amendment 6 is accepted on Article 18. The bill also requires acceptance of this amendment, where a circle of persons providing for the right to cash compensation for assistance and care, as well as conditions for obtaining this right is arranged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27481	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment, with the preparation of which they propose to add a new subtitle to Chapter VI after article 40, together were submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajić, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajić, Đura Lazić, Momir Radoic, Sreten Mitrović, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Zivanko Radovanček, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. On the basis of Article 142(4) of the Legislative Committee, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure rejected this amendment, which is why the amendment cannot be discussed at the session of the National Assembly. The amendment, which is proposed to add new members of 40a and 40b together, was submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Andjelković, Rade Bajic, Đura Lazić, Momir Radoičić, Sreten Mitrić, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovan, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. On the basis of Article 142(4) of the Legislative Committee, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure rejected this amendment, which is why the amendment cannot be discussed at the session of the National Assembly. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on PIO is a system-based law of indeterminateness. In her exposé, the resolution minister stated that pensions are balanced by this system law. In fact, she said that by calculating the basics for the entire working century, instead of ten selected years, some are increasing and others are shrinking. That's normal. But it seems quite different if you look at another mathematical equation. This finding could only be acceptable by happening next: all pensioners will go badly and have reduced pensions, and the only deficit of the pension fund will be reduced. That's the equation where some get and others lose. On Article 41 of the Law on PIO in front of the SRS, I submitted an amendment relating to the right to compensation for funeral expenses. In fact, what I said about the law being unspeakable is said by this member. It says, "In the event of the death of the pensioner, the person who executes the funeral is entitled to the compensation of the funeral expenses." There's a point. It explains that this amendment is not accepted, says: "The government does not accept the amendment because so far this right has been governed by the Fund's statute, and it is estimated that it is necessary to regulate it by law because of the importance. The proposed solution is more favourable because it is coordinated four times a year, unlike the current solution setting the amount at the beginning of the calendar year. "However, looking at this bill and article 75 on the compensation of funeral expenses, where it is said of these quarterly average earnings, or pensions, it can be concluded that the differences between the law and the statutes are almost nothing, because we have one unknown: how much in the quarter will be pensions, whether they will be more favourable or unfavourable compared to the average year...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27483	I'm warning you of an excess of sufficient time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27484	The second thing, very important, is that the government should also consider the cost of costing funeral equipment and that it has in mind that citizens today are very hard to live and must bury their loved ones. It's not supposed to be theirs, it's government's concern. That is why I have also suggested that after the word "costs" be placed stuck and added "in the height established by the Fund's statute". So the Fund should determine the level of funeral expenses, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27485	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new subtitle and a new member of 41a be added after article 41. The government and the committee in charge have proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed a new member of the 41st. Given the objective circumstances and the need, I decided on behalf of the SRS to write this amendment. After Article 41, the new subtitle "5a" is added. The right to obtain special help for reading and writing" and a new member of 41a: "Osserannik, invalid work, user of pension - blind face and blind child insurance, has the right to receive special help for reading and writing - the reproducer and Brajev typewriter. Closer conditions for the achievement and level of compensation for the procurement of special assistance under Article 1(1) shall be governed by the Statute of the Fund." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have calculated that the Government and the committees responsible, then the minister, will have a direct need because this belongs to the social category, to the category of humanity, and we know that in our society there are also people with disabilities and blind persons, especially children, who need to be provided by the state and society with the most basic assistance, so that they, as well as those who are not in this situation, can live and enjoy the fruits of hopefully one day rich in our country. I believe that the Republic budget can find funds because they are not very large. I expect the minister to come forward on this amendment. If he doesn't answer, I'll be sorry, and I might have a second opinion about what kind of relationship and understanding we have with these categories of faces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27487	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27488	Ladies and gentlemen, this is another right that has so far existed in our pension and disability insurance system. I went out for a pay phone just to ask the minister to explain to me where it is in Article 245. The bill finds it contained that we are asking for an amendment to be incorporated into a new article 41a? I couldn't find it, so we interpreted it so this line wouldn't exist any further. If you think and claim otherwise, I ask you to say that for the public's sake, which will surely be properly notified of everything that has been discussed in this session about this very important law. Emergency and even that V.D. The conditions we're in will have to stop once and for all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27489	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27490	Article 246 of the Law reads: "Right to the compensation for the procurement of special aids for reading and writing - the reproducer and Brajev typewriter, the user of the pension - the blind person and the blind child of the insurance company, until the adoption of the relevant regulations, is made subject to the conditions laid down in the regulations which were in force until the date of the application of this law". So, like all rights related to other people's care and help, and this right remains in this law, and as you have well noticed, it is indeed something that this country has to worry about and take care of. You can see there's an insurance child here. So it really is social law and it needs to be financed from the budget, not from the Fund. That's why it's put into transitional solutions, like everything about other people's care and help, because it's actually social protection. It is social protection not in the sense that it takes care of the material position but that all, who have ever worked and who have not, should have the same right to the Bray machine, whether they were retired or not. It's an intensity, it's not as right as it should be about a pension-involvement fund, but really a child, and a grown man and anyone who's disabled of that kind should have that right. It's really social law. Otherwise, I apologize if it is in the explanation why the amendment is not accepted by another member, but the member is 246.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27491	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirović, Joca Arsic and Đura Lazic and MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27492	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected Madam Ministers, along with a group of Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, have tabled an amendment to the 43rd law. With the amendment, we propose to delete the position of the 2nd member. This member of the government provides for the conditions under which a certain category of insurance workers, who work on jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration, can obtain the right to an age pension. In particular, it is thought of the following categories: authorised officials in the conduct of internal affairs, employees in foreign affairs where the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration, in the affairs of counter-scanning services and cryptography and authorised officials to carry out criminal sanctions. Those persons, before obtaining a full age pension, are thought to be 58 years for women and 63 years for men, have the right to an age pension if they have completed at least 53 years of life and 20 years of insurance training, of which at least 10 years have been effectively carried out in jobs where the insurance internship is calculated with an increased duration. It is prescribed in paragraph 2 that those categories of insurance may exercise the right to retirement only if they work on the abovementioned tasks at the time of their exercise of rights. The amendment is required to erase that attitude. It is unfair to deny the exercise of acquired rights because those persons do not work in the abovementioned jobs at the time of their retirement, so right now if they do not work in those jobs, regardless of which they have achieved that prescribed minimum. It is important that those persons worked in these jobs for a number of years, not necessarily working on these jobs when they retired. I think the reasons are convincing and I hope the government will accept that Section 2 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27493	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27494	The apostle who spoke earlier said a lot about the reasons why Article 2 should be deleted. I'd like to suggest something to the minister. There are members who are unscheduled, they lack a text that would explain some legal provisions more closely, and somewhere you have extra parts, where something is quite clear, as in Article 42, where you explain which workers at which time and under what conditions they can acquire certain rights, and you repeat that in the second position of Article 43. Indeed, this number of amendments by opposition MPs should be accepted, because it is obvious here that amendments are written for no political reason, with a view to making a law that is very important and which will produce many consequences, more likely and better. It is a shame, Mrs Matkovic, that you have gained a lot of sympathy in this assembly between MPs of the position and the opposition, to remain remembered under this law that will cause many to fail, reduce their rights and act in some way on our lives, because we are all approaching life when we are users of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27495	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27496	Article 42 and 43 are very interesting and relate to certain categories of insurance companies, and in order to get into a stenogram, I will still list which persons are: authorised officials in terms of internal affairs regulations and BIA members; employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, meaning, former SMIP; employees of bodies and organisations working in counter-departmental services and cryptography and authorised officials in terms of criminal sanctions regulations. The very important segments of our repressive system, the national one; Article 43 speaks under what conditions these persons obtain the right to retire under special conditions; on the other hand, I am sure that this situation and this Article 42 lead to the inequality of the citizens and violation of the Constitution, but on this some constitutional court could one day, when it begins to declare various proposals, to declare whether these persons can be placed in a more favourable position than other categories that work under difficult conditions; we asked for an amendment to delete Article 2 of Article 43, which insists that the insurance company be authorised at the time of retirement or to work in the MUP, SMIP and BIA. I'm terribly worried about these in red berets, about those who lost rank in the MUP, who in a few years will get the right to retire, and they won't be able to retire on special terms when they were working in red berets or while they were in the MUP. There will be others who will be doing these important jobs for 10, 15 or 20 years that the state thinks should give them certain privileges and when we leave the pensions, so if we're going to release the state of some obligations, then we'll always be able to do it before they meet the pension conditions, say two, three years before that, give them various cancellations, take off their rank and then they can't take advantage of that right. I think that both members are anti-constitutional and that the government should really take this amendment seriously, because not only for the sake of the story, but to allow people who have already acquired a right to use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27497	Is there an application for a word? There is. ) The Minister, Mrs Gordana Matkovic, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27498	So, just clarifications doing, it's just something that exists in practice, because this doesn't mean that the benefited internship while working on such jobs doesn't count. Benefied internship is a certified internship, of course, provided it lasts a certain number of years. This applies to how many years you can retire and whether the pension is under special conditions or not, but the benefited internship can't be adjudicated, it's an age limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27499	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirović, Joca Arsic and Đura Lazic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27500	Fellow Members and fellow MPs, Madam Minister, has already said, a group of SPS MPs have tabled an amendment to delete the words "Station 1" in article 45. The government did not accept this amendment for reasons which would mean deleting the entire article 44. It's a bill of law. In addition, it states in the government's explanation, according to the amendment's reasons, they are not the reason for the amendment of this article, but rather for the legal and technical processing which is within the competence of the Legislative Committee and is referred to as a member of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to point out once again that we here have suggested that only two words that are too high in Article 45 be deleted. I would like to remind you that Article 45 literally writes this way: "In the insurance procedure, within the meaning of Article 44(1) of this law, the time spent by the insurance company as a military insurance company is also considered." I note that the article in 44 has only one position and there is no need to repeat that in Article 45 when there is no other attitude. It is not true that, in the explanation, we propose to delete an entire member or attitude, but only these two words that are really excess. We don't see any reason why this amendment, although the improvement of the already given text, is completely logical, completely rational, is not accepted; I don't see any reason and I don't understand. I don't even understand the one who read this amendment that he couldn't read that two words were spoken here - "status" and "1" -- that they were deleted, and not the whole attitude was erased. Anyone who is written can understand what the intensity of submitting this amendment was and there is no reason why this amendment should not be accepted, and especially there is no reason to refer this to a legal-technical order. Did I convince you? So, in order not to go out again, in the next article, since we have two amendments, let me... He can't? Then I'll get back to you on this other one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27501	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? I understand that Minister Gordana Matkovic, on behalf of the promoter, accepted the amendment to Article 45 submitted by the MPs, as explained by MP Joca Arsic. To Article 46. - Minister Gordana Matkovic, on behalf of the promoter accepts the amendment. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I find that the amendment of the People's MPs Radojko Petric, Dusan Cvetkovic, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirovic, Joce Arsic and Đura Lazic has been accepted. The amendment will still be voted on in the voting day, since the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has proposed that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 55th amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above members of 60th and Article 60th. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The admen bearer wants a word. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27502	Assuming that you all have these amendments ahead of you, I don't read them or explain them, but I'm just explaining why I've defined myself for such a solution. That is why I would immediately respond to the Government's claim in light of the refusal of my amendment that the problem of birth cannot be solved in the way I have proposed in this amendment. On the contrary, I do not want the amendment to improve the birth rate at all, and the binding of a third child, as in the bill, indicates that the solution is just motivated by an increase in birth. That's my answer. Otherwise, we have already fought for the concept of parenting, not motherhood, in some previous laws, as I understand it. Therefore, that is why the title should be changed. At the same time, I think a member like this is discriminating children in order of birth, which I also find illegal. The formula "the woman who gave birth to a third child", as the bill envisions, in my opinion further deepens the division of family obligations between parents to men and women. These are the reasons to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27503	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Gordana Matkovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27504	The pension law in our country, as well as in every country, says that retirement insurance is, in fact, for the risk of age. For various reasons, the average age of retirement is very low. Any downsizing is a problem. Like we said, we're in the current funding system and we really have to try not to retire young people. It's especially a question of disabled people. If insurance is in the case of age, then we don't need to have people at 50 or 53 in retirement. Of course, there are various possibilities for different exceptions, but it has to be a principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27505	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tried to improve its amendments to the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Bill. The 60th says that the insurance company, that is, the woman who gave birth to a third child, is therefore taking part in a special period of time of two years. The SRS has given the amendment to amend the Article of the 60th and to say, "The security officer, the woman, for every child born on that basis, is involved in a special period of time of two years". This would primarily be an incentive to increase the birth rate, which we consider to be one of the most important state interests. The government looked at the amendment and gave a very specific explanation. She explains that she does not accept the amendment because women's insurance would thus come into a much more favourable position than men's insurance on the basis of birth criteria, contrary to the insurance principles. In any case, on the side of the woman is both quantity and quality, observed by all parameters. First of all, women are most of the population in Serbia, and also in the world. Women are superior to men by almost all parameters, counting not only physical strength and physical energy, so women are already more equal and superior enough to benefit from other criteria. So it's just the SRS program that a woman should have benefits based on the birth of children. I don't know how much you follow as a minister, but I'll remind you that only 0.9 children have an average Serbian family, unlike some others. Let's say the Shipari have 6.6 children per family. To be positive, statistically observed, it takes 2.1 children to be in one family. It is therefore a question of whether in 2100 Serbs will be in Belgrade at all, let alone in some other parts of Serbia. Those are the reasons, and I'll tell you some more. Natality is a weakness in Serbia for several reasons. First of all, there are three parameters. Somewhere around 20% of married couples, unfortunately, are treated with sterility. It's about 50% male sterility, 50% female sterility. That's where the medicine progresses and goes that way. It's not like you government can influence much. The second parameter is, in any case, that we accept some Western criteria, so that many married couples later get married and there is a reduction in the generic phase, a generational period. Earlier in 32 C.E. was the best period of time, or deadline for a firstborn woman, and now the border has moved slightly to about 35 years. It's just that time is shortening, and the birth rate is weak. Since we have a really large number of unemployed, a large number of people lost their jobs thanks to DOS government, surely the government can influence by allowing every woman who has a child to be benefits at least two years of employment. You know, every third child is born mainly in Serbia because the family has two sons or two daughters, and then it's harder to do so, but it's just a problem for the first child to become one. I'm sure the first child may be more significant than the third child, because later on, when parents realize the importance and role of the child in the family, they need to increase the birth rate. Therefore, on behalf of the SRS, I really urge you to consider, you as a representative of the Government, along with your people who advise you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27507	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, which are proposed to delete members from 61 to 70 in Chapter VIII, together with the MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajić, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajic, Đura Lazić, Momir Radoičić, Sreten Mitrović, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovančević, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic and National MP Zoran Krasic. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a folk MP, Rada Bajic, on behalf of the group of amendment applicants, so MP Zoran Krasic, as the applicant of the amendments in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27508	Fellow MPs, a group of SPS MPs, as you have heard, have submitted an amendment to Chapter VIII - Establishing the level of pension and disability insurance rights, with subtitle 1. Old and disabled pensions, to be wiped out by members 61, 62, 63, 64, up to 70. You heard from the presentations of all MPs of the SPS group and its chief, counterpart Zarko Obradovic, where we said that this law, which is now proposed, is far more unfavourable. So, we remain in keeping with the most favourable parameters that have been valid so far, and that is the ten most favourable years in the course of work, and that the new formula, by which the personal point is multiplied by a general point, is not applied, because it is certain that most pensioners will get hit by reducing their pension. If you noticed a sentence that we interpreted in one of the speeches here, and the government said that the share of pensions in the social gross product was unacceptablely high, and then it's quite clear what to go on: to increase the social gross product or to reduce pensions. Given that the social gross product is hard to increase in developed countries, where the economy and production are far greater than in our country, where production and economic activities fall, it is clear that pensions must be reduced to reach a certain limit, acceptable when it comes to participation in the social gross product. For these reasons, mathematics is applied that will put pensioners in a more unfavourable position, which will therefore put them in a more unfavourable position towards pensioners who have so far made pensions, or under that old law, because this will now be for most pensioners far smaller pensions. For these reasons, we propose simply to delete all these members and formulas for calculating pensions, to remain in the provisions of the old law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27509	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27510	Perhaps this chapter is by itself the law and may be the main reason why this law is passed. They shouldn't be surprised then by these amendments that require the erasure of this chapter, because practically in that chapter we'll all be the same in poverty. That's what some previous ideology was based on. If I didn't repeat what my predecessor said, I'd just look back at a few remarks from the government's explanation. They're said to have come to this math based on analysis. The analysis doesn't exist. There's not even a program, or some matrix based on the quality of the bill. If these are some studies of the Centre for Liberal-Democratic Studies, then it's not a serious document, and if this was done by someone in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, although I doubt it, then it's probably some intern, because it's a shame that so many professional intricacies stand in one bill. That's probably why the minister left in time. It's said here in the explanation that the old pension bill, remember this, is unfair, or it goes in favour of those who have high pensions. The pensioner has already obtained the right to retire and why this bill would affect his pension, when he is already a beneficiary of the right. He's probably thinking about the insurance guy, or whoever filed the application, and he's asking for his pension to be accounted for. First, this isn't true. Everything has its own history. There is a pension and disability insurance system in this country for 80 and a few years. If this government had prescribed 60-and-a-some-year solutions, when there were municipal social security institutions, it would certainly not have made such a mistake, it would have already found a better solution, and these are some pension classes, where, depending on the criteria of internship and years of life, there is an average pension and it comes to that. The most favourable ten-year period, continuous 10 years, as the basis or criterion for determining the age pension has been taken because in that previous accounting system, where some investments in pension and disability insurance have been taken into account, these are all mathematical investments, and these have never been real investments. For what? Because this fund has been dealing with social property assets. The property relationship wasn't settled in that fund. Unfortunately, this bill does not address the most important issue of social policy either. Without resolving the property issue in the field of social policy, all solutions will be ugly, nadal, they will not be able to be implemented until the end. Nearly 99% of the amendments tabled on this bill are the result of misunderstanding. Why? Because there is no ideological commitment to what kind of pension and disability insurance we want to go to. There is no attitude towards private property. There is no position on the foundations of economic policy in this country, therefore we will have a freak law on pension and disability insurance and be sure, when these solutions are brought to life, you will have pensioners on the streets that no one lives will be able to calm down. For what? It balances them only in misery, and there is no answer to the basic question - whether pension is a social right or a labour-based right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27511	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27512	Dear fellow MPs, a group of SPS MPs have proposed erasing these members because we believe they are not good for future pensioners. This part of the law, the way pensions are accounted for, where the whole working century is taken from the previous solution, that the 10 best consecutive years are counted as the basis for retirement, was and is one of the systemic reasons why we consider the proposed solution to be wrong and why we logically propose to delete these members. There is no way to say that the existing way of determining pension is unfair. Why? We had earlier and unfortunately still kept a lot of system solutions that essentially define the position of people, the position of employees. The market doesn't work the way we want it to. Some companies had and have a monopoly. For many employees, it's important where they work. It is also known now that public enterprises have had and have high personal incomes. Now we have a situation that employees of public enterprises, even at the level of local self-government, which was not previously the case, have high incomes, executives, yes, the presidents of municipalities have high incomes. We thought that a solution with the 10 best consecutive years would allow individual categories of people to pull out something that would be good if pensions could be used, age to survive and have as much resources as they needed for a normal life. We believe that this proposed solution will not be good for future beneficiaries of pension insurance, that pensions will simply be small, that there are categories of people who have simply worked in branches that are low-accumulated, which have had low incomes, and I will mention it as a prominent example of the textile industry. I have to say, unfortunately, even the recruits in the education are not a category that had high personal incomes. Years ago, and even now they don't have it, and the question is, how many categories are there at all, other than those in companies that have a monopoly position, to praise the good personal incomes that they can serve as the basis for future incomes. In any case, SPS MPs have tabled a proposal to delete these members, absolutely convinced that the existing solution for each user is far better than that offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27513	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment with the correction, which is proposed to add a new subtitle to chapter 8 after article 73, together with the MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajić, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajić, Đura Lazić, Momir Radoičić, Sreten Mitrović, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Zivanko Radovanček, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. On the basis of Article 142(4) of the Legislative Committee, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure rejected this amendment, which is why the amendment cannot be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly and under the position of the 5th same member of the Rules of Procedure. The amendment, which is proposed to add new members of 73a, 73b and 73v together, was submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and a group of SPS MPs. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone else want a word from authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) We move on to the next amendment submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic together and this is an amendment that is proposed to add new subtitles and members of 73a, 73b and 73v after Article 73. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27514	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not explain this amendment, because the adoption of this amendment is practically necessary if you adopt amendments submitted by the Soviet Union to Article 18 and Article 36. Let me read you the text of the amendment. After Article 73, the new subheading "2a Rights based on reduced working capacity" and three new members is added. This would be a special chapter that would regulate rights based on reduced working ability. We propose to add Article 73a, which reads: "The basis for determining the amount of cash compensation provided for in Article 36b of this Act makes a profit, profit, i.e. the basis of insurance, as well as the agreed fees for the accounting and payment of contributions for PIO, which the insurance company made in the preceding trimester on the day of disability, and amounts to: 1) 100% of the basics, if disability is caused by injury to work or occupational illness; 2) 70% of the basis, if disability is caused by illness or injury outside of work. The payment referred to in Article 1(1) shall be in line three months with the movement of earnings by the employer, i.e. with the average salary of employees in the territory of the Republic, if the employer has ceased work." We propose Article 73b in the same area: "A security officer with reduced working ability to deploy to another job, as well as the right to cash compensation during the day of disability until the day of deployment is realized by an employer who is employed on the day of disability. The allocation of insurance within the meaning of Article 1 of this Article shall be subject to conditions and in the manner laid down by law, general act of the employer or contract." Also, we propose Article 73v, which reads: "A security with reduced working capacity which, independently of its will, ceases employment, the right to re-employment and the right to cash compensation during the day of termination of the right to cash compensation, in accordance with the employment rules, to re-employ with the Fund. The right to cash compensation under Article 1 shall cease on the day of fulfilment of the conditions for obtaining the right to an age or disability pension." As I said, I would not particularly like to explain this amendment, because we have already done so on the subject of amendments to Article 36 (colony Đuro Popovic) and to Article 18 (see my discussion). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27515	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new subtitle and new members of 73a and 74b be added after article 73. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27516	It is an amendment to add a subtitle after article 73 - the right to cash compensation for care and assistance. Articles 73a and 73b define parameters to determine who has the right to care and assistance. This amendment is a consequence of the amendment to Article 3 which retains the right to other people's care and assistance. I would not abide by these formulations, but I would like to say that this law provides for transitional provisions to ensure that the right to care and assistance ceases on the day of entry into force of this law, and that the insurance companies who are entitled to do so until the day of entry into force of this law will enjoy this right until the new law is passed, which will regulate that right. We'll have three categories. One will be, then, persons who will continue to enjoy the right to adopt a new law. There will be others who, as insurance companies of the PIO fund, will not be able to exercise that right to other people's care and help because it is being abolished. The third, based on these criteria, will have the right to other people's care and help, but according to social protection regulations. So in one period, the law will separate those persons into three categories. It's not a good solution, and I think it should still remain a right to other people's care and help, until the problem is systemically solved. Systemically, it will be resolved when the issue of determining the right to social protection is properly resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27517	The word has Gordana Matkovic, minister of government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27518	This difference between those who have the right under the Social Protection Act and those on the basis of payment from the Fund is what it is. The third category will not exist because entering the right of this law until the relevant regulations are adopted is not prevented. So, getting into law school is going to exist when it comes to the pension fund. "The right to cash compensation for the assistance and care of the other person has an insurance and pensioner until appropriate regulations are passed. "So the transitional provisions are fully regulated, not only when it comes to the found, which is Article 245, but also the entry of new users into that right, until the relevant regulations are passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27519	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 74, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Minister Gordana Matkovic, on behalf of the promoter, accepts the amendment submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic to article 74. You have the right to speak, but because of the stenogram. I must say, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Gordana Matkovic accepted the amendment. The government has accepted. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs is not. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Gordana Matkovic saw that this was not just a technical error in article 74 and that lack, which would not surprise me, given that it was not solely Mrs. Matkovic's fault, that the head of the Republic's Legislative Secretariat is now the husband of Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. We've had these cases before. The government, or individual resolution ministries, responded immediately to our interventions, and accepted our amendments that are ultimately being specified. As the chairman says, Mrs. Comic, to get into the stenogram, so that you know what this is about, especially those who are taking a little more naps and not following, or who are not interested in this matter at all. It's a member of the 74th who makes sure the financial compensation for physical damages. Article 74 states: "The amount of financial compensation for physical damage shall be determined by the basis which shall constitute the basis for the beneficiaries found to be entitled to financial compensation for physical damage in the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, at the percentage of the physical damage established in Article 39 of this Act". The amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, adds a second position after this, which reads: "The financial compensation for physical damage belongs to a constant monthly amount". So, Mrs. Matkovic saw it missing, along with those remarks that Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, took on several occasions. I'm going to take the chance to say that, no matter what this is technically done, we're going to have a grudge over the fact that physical damage benefits are only given in work injuries and diseases that are professional. However, we believe that they should be treated with cash compensation and employees who, unfortunately, have an accident outside the workplace.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27521	The word has been issued by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27522	On the basis of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that MPs are obliged to provide true information, to inform you that the lady you mentioned, Zivkovic, is not the secretary of the Legislative Secretariat; she is resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27523	Anyone else want a word? The proposal to add a new subtitle and a new member of 74 after article 74. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new subtitle and a new member of 74 be added after article 74. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Djuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party has proposed that a new subtitle of "Z's Novcana aid and care" and a new member, related to our amendment to Article 18, be added after article 74. Proposal for a Law; Article 74a: "The amount of financial compensation for assistance and care shall be determined at the level of the amount of the harmonised financial compensation for the assistance and care of the beneficiaries found in the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund". If Amendment 6 is accepted on Article 18. It is also necessary to regulate the way in which the financial compensation for assistance and care is determined, as proposed by this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27525	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to the next amendment, with the correction, to add a new subtitle to Chapter VIII after article 74; together with the National MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajić, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajic, Đura Lazić, Momir Radoičić, Sreten Mitrović, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovan, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the next amendment, submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic and the same group of MPs, and this amendment proposes that new members of 74a, 74b and 74v be added after article 74v. On the basis of Article 142(4) of the Legislative Committee, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure rejected this amendment, which is why the amendment cannot be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly, and according to Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Members of the 75th Amendment were submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 75, I have proposed as an MP for the Serbian Radical Party to make compensation for funeral expenses bigger and to be the two average personal incomes in Serbia. This solution is the appropriate moment where we are, because we know that all citizens are in a difficult position, at least the vast majority, and that minority doesn't need those costs, they don't. However, 90% of Serbian citizens need to compensate for these costs because they do not receive personal income or are low incomes. They're usually older people, and God forbid it happens when there are younger people. The government gave me an explanation that doesn't apply to this member. "The proposed solution is more favourable because it is coordinated four times a year," I cannot understand that the government can say it is more favourable to pay one and a half personal income, not two. I didn't ask for it to be coordinated or not coordinated four times a year. The government predicts that these costs are coordinated four times, but I asked them to be two average personal incomes and not one. If we take into account that unemployed people are based on average in the 30th year, we come with a simple calculation that no man can retire before 70th and women 65 years ago, it turns out that every hundred workers will enjoy a pension for a few years, because perma statistics in Serbia live 67 years. What category and how many new employees and those who are now starting to pay and contributions to social and pension insurance will come into the situation to use pension and how long they will benefit; year, two or three. A large number of these people won't be in a position to use those funds. This law reduces existing rights, instead of going towards increasing them, because a huge number of people are out of work. Poverty is much bigger than before. A much larger number of people remain below the threshold of endurance. You could've gone that way for any family with a death certificate to get this fee, whether they had a secure face or not. What happens in a state of emergency, and the chairman of the Assembly isn't here right now, so tell her that the hate speech, which you say he ruled at another time, is now so present in the media, and you can't answer it. Insolents and political opponents are called fascists, murderers and so on, and that's what people who remind people of only one thing - walk on two legs. You're giving these people so much space that they're attacking your political opponents that it's really a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27527	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Lazic and Djordje Mamula submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment is to Article 75. The amendments in the same text were submitted jointly by the MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajić, Đura Lazić, Moma Radoic, Sreten Mitrović, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovanče, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Jankovic, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic and joint MPs Borisa Pelevic, Dragan Marković, Petar Petrović, Milos Lukić, Adam Urosevic and Djuro Popović. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the ambassadors of the Amdnaman group of MPs of the SPS, the word is a folk letter from Zivodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27528	The Honorable Presidency, Ms. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has submitted an amendment to Article 75 requesting that instead of "one-and-a-half" in the event of the death of a pensioner, in the name of funeral expenses, two average pensions be paid. I think the explanation here is absolutely clear. Unfortunately, pensioners are increasingly belonging to groups of people in a state of social need. This is one of the last rights at the end of their lives we're ending. Death is a great stress for every family, which today has a very low standard of living, so it is necessary to find the means that, even if this amendment is accepted with two average pensions, it is not enough, given the amount of funeral costs. The argument given by the government can be accepted if the trend would be to increase the standard of living, so, filling that fund, and I know that there is a problem with the missing funds, but the latest statistics speak, which is the data officially published on February 13th, that the average net salary in December was 11.555 dinar, and in January 9,468 dinars are said to have fallen below 63% of the average net salary. If we compare only December and January, it tends to increase and decrease, so it does not go to the benefit of the family which will rise due to the quarterly adjustment of these costs. I would therefore really ask all MPs and the Registrar to accept this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27529	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) On behalf of the second group of applicants of the amendments, the word has the MP Đuro Popovic, for the amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27530	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the Soviet Parliament's group has proposed that in Article 75 instead of "one-and-a-half" the "two" average pensions. Let me explain this amendment. More and more pensioners are on the verge of hunger and misery, total misery and hunger, and I will note that the increase in mortality during this government is growing and higher, and all for economic reasons, so the government has also found in this field to save on pensioners. I must point out that funeral costs cost the average annual pension, so I suggest that the government actually takes care of the last retirement for the pensioners who built this country and only have the right to what is legally theirs. I really ask the Minister to adopt this amendment to the Soviet Parliament group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27531	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Will the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic be first and then the minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27532	Three amendments were made to Article 75, and all three proposed new parameters to increase the cost of funeral expenses, all in order not to put a lot of burden on the fund and that again means something to the one who finds himself in the situation that these costs must be compensated. I have to admit that when we wrote the amendment, we were meant to completely throw it out of this law, but we didn't know how else to make a commitment to the state to bear funeral expenses for everyone in this country who died. Today, and just now, we heard that a pensioner cannot bury his spouse, even if he lives in a joint household with his children who work. We know what the average incomes are, everyone is in a position to be in debt so that in a dignified way they can send their deceased away, given the country's social opportunities and the size of the average incomes, and no one will convince me that they were bigger than they were two or two days ago when we moved to the euro; only prices were harmonised and went up, if there were 100 marks, now it's all 100 euros on average. The situation is the same, only the number of unemployed is even higher, and so I'm saying that maybe you should think, maybe the government should think about taking over the burden of the budget to bury everyone who dies in this country. Because since DOS is in power, believe me, we're all closer to God, we're just praying to God for health that we don't have to find the means to cure, not God when someone in the family dies.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27533	The word has the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27534	I'd just like to make sure that earlier this right of compensation was actually regulated by the statute of the Fund, meaning by a general act rather than by law. We felt and it was the idea that it was the right to stand in law, that it could not be changed on the basis of the Fund's decision, but that it must stand explicitly as a legal right, because then it must be explained when that amount is changed and that this is some higher guarantee than it was before as a solution. It also means, when the Fund's statute was being edited, it was being edited once a year, so when that sum was determined, it didn't change throughout the year. In this context, it is determined that this amount should be as determined at the beginning of the year by the statute of the fund and that it has to be adjusted annually, means that it does not lose to the real value. We predicted that it would be one and a half pensions, as usual and that the costs would be calculated in the fund. Of course it's better than less, but it's a question of how many options are there. I'd just like to comment on something else. There have been several conversations here about the relationship between pensions and net earnings, i.e. earnings reduced for taxes and contributions. I have a table in front of me that compares those two amounts in 2002. The fact is that this relationship is changing and that it is at one point at 62%. In particular, for January, the month is 85%, as the average pension of 8.058 dinars and earnings for January are reduced for taxes and contributions of 9,468 dinars. It did not fall to 60% in the sense that this is something that is an absolute trend of reduction, but, among other things, the result of pension harmonisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27535	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The 68th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27536	Madam Chairman, even though I have no right under the Rules of Procedure, I still have to notice something. There are so few of us here, mostly from the opposition. The minister was so cooperative, she held meetings in clubs. If this is the work of the Assembly, we could have held sessions at clubs. Call your colleagues, shame on you. Only four from the DSS. ) I have submitted an amendment to Article 78, with a proposal to delete that member. What are the reasons? In the principle debate on this law, I mentioned the government's explanation, where it is said about how pensions are accounted for. It has been said to be taking full-time employment and that it is just. I agree with that. However, in addition to taking the overall work experience, the right to calculate the coefficient from that total working effort is now limited, so it is limited that the coefficient cannot be more than four. Why, for what reason, I really don't understand it. I said in the principle debate that it was in some way depriving the rights of future pensioners. In the next amendment, which I will also explain, by harmonising pensions as planned, the rights of established pensioners are being denied. Therefore, I believe that this article should be deleted, if we are already in favour of the principle of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27537	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a minister, Mrs. Godana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27538	There are always two options. If there are elements of solidarity, then it has to be financed from somewhere. So there's a minimum pension element, there's a disability pension that assumes a significant addition of internships for those who left before the retirement. That's why there's such a restriction. There's always something in systems like this. No matter what, if we wanted to end up carrying out a consequential system, then he wouldn't be able to enable the elements of solidarity, so we wouldn't have such limitations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27539	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic together submitted an amendment proposing to amend the IJ chapter. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27540	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, distinguished colleagues, the Soviet Parliament group has proposed to amend and supplement the IJ chapter. Instead of "and" is put "stuck", and after the word "damaging" the words "and cash compensation for help and care". Of course, this is about the amendment to Article 18, which was submitted by the Soviet Parliament group. If this is adopted, it is also necessary to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27541	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 80th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(4). Rules of Procedure, rejected this amendment, which is why the amendment cannot be discussed in the National Assembly. Members of the 80th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and a group of MPs from the Soviet Union. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27542	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, distinguished colleagues, the Soviet Parliament Club considers this to be a key amendment for pensioners. Of course, all pensioners are calling for this amendment to be accepted, including pensioners' unions. The Soviet Parliament Group proposed that Article 80(1) be amended and read as follows: "The pension is coordinated from 1 January, 1 April, 1 July and 1 October of the current year, on the basis of data from the statistical authority, with the movement of the average earnings of employees in the territory of the Republic in the previous three months. Item 3 is deleted. "Let me explain this amendment to you. As regards pension harmonisation, the solutions set out in the federal law have been retained, implemented since 1 January 2002, and then adopted on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, under the pressure of the IMF to significantly reduce the average pension ratio towards average earnings. According to the proposed way, pensions are coordinated three months with the cost of living and the average income of employees in the territory of the Republic in the percentage representing half of that collection, instead of having been up to 31. 12. In 2001, a month and only with a profit movement. In this way, pensioners received less than one and a half pensions in 2002. Practically, this means that a new way of harmonising pensions has led to their drastic reduction. This also significantly reduces the average pension relative to the average profit. For example, in the employee fund, the average pension paid for October 2002 was reduced to 72%. If the old method of synchronisation was applied, only by moving the monthly earnings, the average pensions would be 80% of the average earnings. For November 2002, it was 6,777 dinars or 45.79% compared to the average earnings for the month, which amounted to 14,800 dinars, or 65.84% compared to the average earnings, without taxes and contributions, which amounted to 10.293 dinars. If this method of coordination continues to be applied, the pensioner's position will continue to deteriorate and make a huge difference between pensions and pension damage, which will continue to make the pensioner's material and social situation worse, the largest number, over 60%, lives on the edge of the pension because they receive to the average pension. The pensioners think they should share the fate of the workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27543	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we cannot support this amendment for the reason that pensions here are in line with employees' earnings, and we think pensions should be consistent with the cost of living, given that it's a social category, but we're trying to figure out what the promoter wanted when he proposed that pensions be accumulated here relative to the sum of half of the percentages of the cost of living or the cost of living and half of the growth rate, that is, the decline in earnings. We know that the cost of life will grow, and it's much more realistic to expect that profits will fall, so there's trying to make a transition, or that pensions line up with something that practically doesn't exist and that they're less than they should be, if they're counting on just the cost of life or profit. It's not a good solution. It is clear what the Government wants to achieve with this and given the numbered reports of the Statistics and Ordered Data Office that we receive, pensioners will best feel this way of harmonising their pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27545	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Lazic and Djordje Mamula submitted to the 80th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirović, Joca Arsic and Đura Lazic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27546	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance in front of the SPS parliamentary group with my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 80. Otherwise, Article 80, as well as 81, regulate the harmonisation of pensions and cash deposits for physical damage, and the proposed method retains an existing solution in the pension and disability insurance system. However, given the pension harmonisation parameters of 1 January 2002, the movement of cost of life and profit, the question is whether the pensioner standard will follow the employee standard. We have suggested that Article 80(1) changes and reads: "Retirements from 1 January 2003 are coordinated monthly with the movement of employees in the Republic for that month, according to data published by the statistics authority. Item 3 of the same article is deleted." Pension and disability insurance rights are labour rights and must be harmonised on the basis of work only with the movement of earnings in the Republic, not with the movements of the cost of living and profit, as proposed by this law, primarily because of the fact that the cost of life is not an impact on the movement of earnings. If pensions were to continue to be harmonised and with the cost of living, a very quickly unfavourable relationship would be established between the average profit and the average pension, of course at the expense of the pension, which is unacceptable when considering the difficult material situation of the pensioner. Besides, it's not acceptable for pension coordination to be performed three months, because it's also a way to keep pensions on a lower level. We believe that the bill promoter did not form a previous analysis of pension growth in the old form and pension growth that are in line with the profit and cost of living according to federal law, which has already been applied since 1 January 2002, and which has been incorporated into this bill. The ratio of the average salary to the average pension, if harmonised according to this new system, will result in a sustained and inaccessible lack of pensions relative to earnings. I suggest that in the voting day, you plead for this amendment, so that the pensioner population will not be in a more difficult material position.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27547	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27548	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a group of SPS MPs have submitted this amendment wishing that the solution that has existed for a year and which has found its place in this bill, and in practice showed bad for pensioners, be replaced by better. I think this is the solution, after all, and the practice has shown it, for the pensioners badly, and that was one of the reasons why we feel that this law is not good, that it is restrictive and that it can't do the pensioners any better. The essence of this solution in the law is what unfortunately comes down to the whole law, which is to reduce the total amount of money needed for pensions. A group of Socialist Party MPs suggested that profits be adjusted monthly according to data published by the statistics authority and that they be brought into line with profit developments. Practice has shown this is an optimal solution for pensioners. The adoption of this amendment in the law establishes and inaugurates the principle of justice, which so much is said. Otherwise, data delivered by pensioners, by people dealing with this topic, show that only last year, according to a settlement in the law, which we believe is not good, pensioners are denied 10,000 dinars. So, anyway, the existing solution isn't good. It is not good to take two parameters, increase in cost of life and growth in earnings in relation to 50:50, and it is especially not good for this coordination to take place three months. I have to say that when an existing solution, otherwise for us bad, is applied long-term, as it was in 2002, then this unfavourable relationship between average earnings and average pensions is established. There is simply no possibility that this bad relationship can be corrected in some way. In any case, the SPS Group considers this to be a solution to the monthly coordination of fairer, better, and for pensioners it is more useful and allows for modest pensions to at least monitor profit growth and simply be in a position to get greater compensation, i.e. to get what they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27549	The word has the Minister of Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27550	As you have seen, we have had the opportunity to hear two different opinions about how pensions should be coordinated and this is seen in the amendments as well. One group believes that pensions should be brought into line with the cost of living, that they are held in real terms. The second that they need to coordinate with average earnings, which means they move in the same way as the profits. The government has opted for these two approaches, to take into account both the profits and the cost of living, when assessing how pensions should move. I have to say, by the way, that this solution is connected and foreseen in the budget as well. If anything else goes to vote, you'll have to smooth out a different budget. It is also important here to understand that below the cost of life pensions should not fall and that is why it is important that the cost of life be an element that will make it impossible for what happened in January to happen. Salaries have fallen, as has been reduced in each January, and then the cost of life is those they say, but pensions will not be reduced to as much as the wages have been reduced. I want to remind you that the profit system, as a parameter, was passed when the profits started to shrink and that's why it had to be said, can't pensions be bigger than profits. I want to remind you, pensions can't be equal to profits. Average earnings and average pensions can't be the same. Retired at 15 and 20 years of internship. Someone can't have the same pension as someone who works. Not especially someone who's only worked for 15 years. These and the minimum pensions, as well as the various rights that exist, are bringing pensions down. The bill showed that when people leave full-time, the average pension is higher than the average salary. I want to remind you in the end, in January 2001, the pension amounted to 3,000 dinars, and now amounts to 8,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27551	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The governments of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have proposed that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs, Borislav Pelevic and others, submitted together to Article 81 of the amendment. The governments of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have proposed that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Soviet Union's parliamentary group suggested that the words "damaging" should be added in article 81 after the word "damaging" and "money" for help and care", and the word "coordinates" would be replaced by "coordinated". Let me explain this amendment. Of course, if amendment 6 to Article 18 is accepted The draft law also requires acceptance of this amendment, which regulates the way in which money compensation for assistance and care is harmonised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27553	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and a group of MPs of the SPS and MPs Borislav Pelevic and a group of SSJ MPs together submitted. The governments of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The same group of SPS MPs to Article 94, the first signed MP Nebojsa Jovic, submitted an amendment to both the government and the committee responsible accepted it, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 94th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and a group of MPs from the Soviet Union. The governments of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have proposed that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister of Social Affairs accepts this amendment. The amendment was accepted by the government, but it will be necessary for the Assembly to plead, since the Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 95th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirović, Joca Arsic and Đura Lazic. The governments of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have proposed that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27554	Dear Presidency, Madam Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, allow me, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to explain the amendment to Article 95 of this Law. A group of SPS officials suggests that paragraphs 4 and 5 be deleted from this article. I would ask Mrs. Matkovic to explain to us what is the responsibility of the insurance company, if he is referred by the competent doctor to the medical board for the purpose of determining disability. Which is his fault, if the commission finds that there are no reasons for achieving disability. It is only logical that the proposal to determine the disability of the chosen physician, and the consent on the proposal is not accepted by the medical board in the medical institution, that the insurance company has no consequences. Such provisions will also create fear of the chosen doctor, so that he too will be in a very difficult and serious dilemma, whether to make proposals to determine disability. Practically, he can put his proposal into high insurance costs, which is, anyway, due to sickness, drug purchase, due to low incomes of 50-60% of personal income during sick leave, in serious and health and financial problems. For the government, according to her reluctance, some unreasonable wholeness is more important than man and insurance. The burden of a large number of requests by the authorities to perform skills in the PIO Fund is an unreasonable and unacceptable reason for not accepting this amendment. I have to point out again that this problem has created a practical elimination of the so-called. third categories of disability from the current law; I repeat, European legislation did not reject this way in this insurance. I would like to make an example; let's say, from the lead mines and the Lec zinc in Leskovec, or in Medvedja, cave workers after about 20 years of work, since they are burdened and suffer the consequences of the operation of lead to their organism, have been transferred so far to the work of setting up a circle of mines or to the work of hygienics. Under this law, with such shortcomings they will have to go out. It happened and it happens that they were also excesses in the jobs they were doing and that during the winter period they were practically just coming to work. When the boss comes, when the company privatizes the Lec mine, they'll have to go to the street. At the loss of mining skills, they have to lose their jobs because they have nowhere else to go. To work in a mine won't be able to because the boss won't, and this way with the disease they have, they can only work until the end, if they expect to be carried out on a stretcher from the mine. So I ask you to consider this proposal that I made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27555	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party has proposed that Article 96, paragraph 1, after the word "damaging" add the words "and the right to financial compensation for assistance and care". Of course, this is related to Amendment 6, which was submitted by the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party, and to Article 18. The draft law, so if accepted, also needs to be adopted by this amendment, which regulates the procedure for the exercise of the right to cash compensation for assistance and care.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27557	Thank you. No more logins for the word on this amendment. Nebojsa Jovic and others from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group submitted together to the 97th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27558	The Honored Presidency, gentlemen of ministers, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group tabled an amendment to Article 97. A bill of law, intended to specify the provisions of this article, and in the interest of the beneficiaries of pensions and disability. The SPS parliamentary group proposes that Article 97 item 1 after the word "security" should be put to the point, and the words "or by official duty" should be deleted. Why? Because the launch of an official duty procedure to determine the changes in the disability status which are of an impact on the right of invalidity pension, recognised by a judicial solution, is not acceptable. This raises the question of a judicial solution acquired the right to a disability pension, based on a complete and permanent loss of working ability. In addition, Article 98 must be taken into account. The labour law, which has been regulated to cease employment independently of the employer's will and will, provided that the law provides for the loss of the employment capacity of the employee to deliver a judicial solution to determine the loss of employment. The SPS parliamentary group also proposes to change the position of the 2nd member's vote: "The changes in disability in insurance with the remaining working capacity when the right to deploy or second full-time employment is thus acquired, can be established in the procedure initiated at the request of the insurance company, the authority of the art, as well as in the official duty". This item of Article 2 97 applies only to users of rights based on the remaining working capacity. In this case, the procedure could be initiated for the purpose of reviewing, both at the request of the insurance undertaking and at the request of the authority of the craftsman, but also on official duty. The SPS parliamentary group also proposes that the 3rd member's position be deleted. We propose to delete Section 3 for the reason that no special general act should be adopted for the purpose of the control of users of the rights based on disability, as the issue of this should contain the general act referred to in Article 94. The bill, since the government has accepted the SPS amendment that regulates the obligations of this member more precisely. I think this attitude three is unnecessary, and that's why we suggest that it be deleted. After all, that provision also contains Article 93. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27559	Is there anyone else signing up for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Before we continue the discussion in particular, I would only ask the heads of the parliamentary groups, who are present, and especially the parliamentary group of the SPS, the Serbian Unity and DSS Party, to submit amendments in accordance with Article 137 - individual MP or if the group, to be the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, so that there would be no 20 names here because it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and now I could refuse when someone else appears, and that is not the first signed. Please don't make it a practice in the future. Thank you. Members of the 97th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party has suggested that Article 97, paragraph 1, after the word "security" should be put to the point, and the remaining text should be deleted. Article 2 is amended as follows: "Modifications in disability in insurance with reduced working capacity, where, on this basis, he obtained the right to deploy or work at another job, changes in the state of physical impairment, as well as changes in the state of need for assistance and care of another person can be established in the procedure initiated at the request of the insurance company, the authority of the craftsman or the employer, as well as in the official duty". Item 3 is deleted. Let me explain this amendment to you. It is not acceptable to establish the mandatory initiation of the procedure under official duty to determine the changes in the disability status of a recognised judicial solution, which is of an impact on the right to a disability pension. This negates the legal and social security of these users, which is further explained in the explanation of Amendment 8 to Article 21. Instead of Article 2, a new solution is proposed which should be adopted if Amendment 3 is adopted on Article 18, under which, at the official duty, at the request of an authority of an expert or an employer, only changes in the insurance company with reduced working capacity, changes in physical damage and needs and care of another person can be reconsidered. Deleting Article 3 is proposed for the reason that there is no need for a special general act to be adopted in order to examine the users of the rights, since issues relating to this should be governed by a general act referred to in Article 94. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27561	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 100th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Nebojsa Jovic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27562	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mrs Matkovic, fellow MPs, has submitted an amendment to article 100 of this law, so please allow me to explain it. In Article 100(2), a new position is added, which reads: "Agreement decided on the rights of the insurance company on the basis of the remaining working capacity, the right to appeal is also the employer with whom the insurance company is employed, within 15 days of the date of receipt of the solution". By adopting such a solution and this amendment on the establishment of a disability right, on the basis of the remaining working capacity provided by the employer and where the insurance company would exercise those rights, condition and enables the employer to participate in the process of exercising those rights. This right of the employer stems from his obligation to his employees in relation to the provision of rights based on the remaining work capacity. The minister assured us that the rights of the insurance company would be regulated by the employment rules, which are the rules that will only be adopted in the house, so it's really a lot of uncertainty what it will look like, and will these people with reduced working skills really be protected? The abolition of the rights based on the reduction of the working capacity in this law is not a rule in force in European legislation, so that the abolition of the so-called third category should be reconsidered. If this amendment is accepted, it will also create the obligation of the employer to resolve the partial incompetence of the insurance company. Let me give you a very significant example that many people probably don't know about, but they'll understand it, it's from the pharmaceutical industry that I spent many years in. The question is to solve a partial incompetence for the work of workers who work in granulating jobs, and that's the one that makes pills out of them. So, you know that in each tablet, either in the irritation or in the capsule, there is a minimum active substance content that is 0.01 thousandths of the gram most often. The worker in the granulation business must spend a kilo of active substance; therefore, it participates in the drug with a thousandth part, put it in court and make a mixture that will only have that 0,01 grams of active substance. During the work he comes in contact with a million times the concentration of active substances and comes in a situation that after ten years he becomes completely incompetent; depending on whether he works cardiotonics or other preparations, he comes in a very difficult situation, but he is able to work at the place of the pack, in combination, he can do the job. So I think it's very important for this issue to be seen, because such examples, I apologize for being overrun, there are other branches of industry. It's gonna be a crime against that guy, because kids start working at 18, and he can't practically work on the jobs of the place where he started. I'm asking that we take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27563	The word has the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27564	Since it is a very specific example, when there are such jobs where people are known to lose their job ability, the first question is asked, should the employer be forced to keep the employee after, to pay him less; should someone pay that fee difference and should the pension fund do so? So that's the question here, is it supposed to be a pension fund? Imagine a market economy where you no longer have state and social property, where you have a large number of companies, you have companies that have extremely large salaries, where that difference can be 10 and 20 grand. I'm asking again, is that supposed to be paid from the pension fund, that's the question?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27565	You have no right to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27566	Let me tell you, since privatisation is under way, that Health is a private company right now, this job has no way of protecting itself in any way. Complete ventilation has been done, all possible, but the worker has to come in contact with the active substance. The employer, his current owner of Health, that company from Iceland, will certainly not transfer him from that place to another place, but will send him to the street and be sure of that. There's no dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27567	No more logins for the word on this amendment. On Article 109 of the amendment in the same text, the people's emissaries Nebojsa Jovic and others, together with the people's emissaries Borislav Pelevic and others, together the MPs Dragan Lazic and the second and national MP Stevan Kesejić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has Nebojsa Jovic, followed by MP Djuro Popovic, and then Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27568	Dear People's MPs, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted this amendment, as it speaks of the use of pension and disability insurance rights, and Article 109 says: "Pensions and fines are determined in the monthly amount and are paid backwards. "We suggest that in article 109, the word "back" be replaced by the words "in the current month for the previous month". The proposed amendment more precisely formulates the way pensions and fines are paid, which means they are paid in the current month for the previous month. Deviating from such a way of paying off pensions means disrespecting legal regulations. Paying out pensions in that way is an appropriate remuneration for employees. As pensions are earned on the basis of work, there should be no difference in its cost compared to earnings, so before pensions are the only source of income from most of its users, any delay in the cost of reducing its economic value and jeopardizing the low standard of pensioners anyway. The government's reasoning is that it will put a lot of burden on the Fund; I know that the Fund is overloaded, that the funds in the Fund are not enough, but I think the legal solution should provide for pensions to be paid in the current month for the previous month and that it should take everything to make sure that the Fund is in such a condition that pensions can be paid as we have proposed by amendment to Article 109 of the Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27569	The word has a folk MP, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, violation of the Rules of Procedure, or a proposal by the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27570	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to ask for a quorum, I'm going to leave the chairman to take care of it, to respect the Rules of Procedure, but I'd like to draw attention to Rule 137. Rules of Procedure. We have always advocated strict respect for the Rules of Procedure, and even for this concise Rules of Procedure, and you have now come into a situation that is quite unpleasant here, so I would like to remind you of the provisions of Rule 137, and therefore I will read it - "that the debate is being held in particular by the members to whom the amendments and amendments are proposed to bring new provisions, and that they may take part: the applicant of the amendment, or if the amendment proposes a number of MPs, the authorised representative of those Members of Parliaments." We have here all day a change of MPs signed as a group of MPs, I have nothing against it, the chairman read the names of all these MPs, but they were obliged to authorise one of them to explain the amendment and then the chairman has a easier job. It was her duty to warn them, not mine, but I have this ungrateful duty to warn you of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. If I may, I would use three more minutes to explain the second violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is Article 100, which refers to the current chairman, who says, "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." In front of me is a report by the Administrative Committee on 20 March 2003, which was sent by the President of the Administrative Board to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and on the request for a session of the Administrative Committee, because of the opposition of the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of the conclusion of the Administrative Committee, 28th and 28th of February 2003, which has been authorised by the Committee to act in the event of the same legal and factual content of the complaint on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, which has already been decided by the Committee. He says I'm filing the next report. I don't want to talk about whether the board could only have authorized the board president to decide outside the session, whether he was the committee himself. I would not keep you from reading the entire report, but only the position of the 3rd report, which says that, given that Tomislav Nikolic's distance from the session is not a matter of time limit, the president of the National Assembly said when she gained full insight into the incident of that day, and based on written statements by MPs Stanko Kovacevic, Milan Stanimirović and Dragos Babic. I would like to return you to Tuesday's session, the beginning of the session, when the current chairman said that she had received written statements, along with these three MPs, even MPs Slobodan Tomovic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. The report by the chairman of the committee shows that the chairman presented a lie, deceived the National Assembly, and thus violated the dignity of this National Assembly. I assume she has a special obligation to safeguard that dignity and not to bring out false facts here and bring to an unpleasant position the MPs whose names are mentioned. (A voice from the O.R.: Time. Gentlemen, your time is long gone. Another inaccuracy, I will not use difficult terms such as lies, but it is said here that statements were delivered to her, and from the decisions of the Administrative Committee and what Mrs Comic said at the beginning of this session, it was clear that those statements were delivered to the Administrative Committee and not to her personally. Please, don't get involved in a lie and don't deceive the National Assembly. I therefore ask the Administrative Board to declare whether Ms Comic, acting as chairman, violated the provision of Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27571	The objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you have spoken, deserves a replica more than an explanation. Still, here's an explanation. The measure was made on the basis of insight into the statements and on the basis of what the MPs delivered in those statements. I can even tell you the room and the time where and when these reports were delivered to me by the secretary of the board and by the order of the chairman of the Administrative Board. As regards the authority of the Board, which concerns repeated objections to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee decided on this following the obvious abuse of the infringement procedure of the Rules of Procedure which concerned the term of office, as repeated objections, so as not to constantly discuss the same subject. With your objection to article 137, I agree. National Assembly President Mrs Natasa Micic has made a request not to abuse the procedure in the future and to act strictly under Article 137. The Rules of Procedure, because there is no reason for anyone to be denied the right to submit an amendment, but there is no reason why we should all not respect the Rules of Procedure together. The Management Board's session will be scheduled and they will once again discuss your objection and damage to article 100. Rules of Procedure. The word was also reported by MP Djuro Popovic, who submitted the amendment to article 109 in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27572	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Parliament's group has proposed that the 109th word "back" be replaced by the words "in the current month for the previous month". Let me explain this amendment to you. In a manner proposed by this amendment, the Fund undertakes to make pension payments in the current month for the previous month. This makes it impossible for pensions to be paid with a great delay, such as so far, for pensions made in the Staff Fund to be paid by a month and a half late, and for pensions made in the Farmers' Fund with a delay of one year and four months. I suggest that the National Assembly adopt this amendment to correct the injustice against the pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27573	The word has been given by MP Stevan Kesejic, the applicant for the amendments in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27574	As the only applicant for the amendments in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 109 relating to pensions and fines determined in the monthly amount and paid back. I don't get that word backwards, but we can understand that it means a long time ago or some time behind us. However, given that the government has given an explanation saying that this amendment is not accepted for the reason that this solution would be a major burden on the Fund, which, above all, should bear in mind the huge debts created in the previous decade. In addition, for the regular 15-day payment of half the pension, the republican budget already provides significant funds. I don't understand this explanation. If it has passed, the dictatorial authority, the last dictatorial regime, has left so much debt for MPs in the hall, because the public cannot hear it, and surely journalists will not publish it, during the economic sanctions and NATO aggression in Yugoslavia, Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj was attacked by the same ones who propose this law today because he managed to pay back the pensions by paying off through the compensation for electricity, electricity. In the beginning, however, pensioners generally accepted this vision and met with pension payments in the current month for the previous month. That is why I believe that this argument is not valid, a team before the DOS's promise before the elections that, as soon as this tyrant regime is brought down, everything will be well-being in this country, and even the pensioners will experience visible well-being. However, such a law shows that restrictions are actually being made on pension and disability insurance users, because such a model offered by DOS authorities actually shows that. The government tells pensioners not only that there will be fewer pensions, but that they will be regularly delayed. That is why I believe that the amendment to Article 109, which I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, has place in view of your promises, so that the words "back" are said to be, and yet somehow we agreed on what it means, replaces the words "in the current month for the previous month".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27575	The word is made by Mrs Gordana Matkovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27576	The reason is this: in the current month for the previous month it was in the previous law and unfortunately the law was not respected. As you know, during these two years, pensions have been paid regularly every 15 days, but the shift that existed in pension payments for a month and a half, unfortunately, so far there's no possibility of paying off, so if we put it into law now, we'd be able to break that law. It's now more than 20 billion, that debt that was inherited. In the meantime, it began with the payment of another debt created in 1994 and 1995. It's so-called. The old debt and that debt began to pay off, and when the conditions began, this shift would be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27577	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27578	We have now heard and read from the explanation that the Republic budget already provides a significant part of the funding for the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. I want the Republic budget and the Serbian government to come into a situation so that they can borrow from the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, because it is done in many countries. In America it is most often done and it is the interest of the insurance and pension and disability insurance fund because it is the best money he has invested, he is sure to be paid back with interest. But don't complain about the situation, because what you've done to increase industrial production, what you've done to increase the number of employees, what you've done to increase the gross product. You didn't do anything about it. On the contrary, from month to month, we have a decline in industrial production and we can only expect that the funding in the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund will be getting smaller and that we will have to allocate more and bigger funds from the budget, i.e. the state is financing pensions completely from the budget at one point. This is what will happen very quickly to us if some other laws and the creation of this general environment in the country do not allow economic growth and employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27579	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) At the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić withdrew the amendment to Article 133. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 133th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 137 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. At the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić withdrew the amendment to Article 140. Members of the 140th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic submitted to the 140th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 145 of the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27580	Before I begin to explain the amendment to Article 145 of the Law, I will use my parliamentary right, Mrs. Komic, to suggest that I use Article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly take a break so that you can, since you obviously cannot do it regularly, establish order in the O.R. This is about the behaviour of a mildly-disputed parliamentary group, who not only listens to what is being said, but in the last three hours every time the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, who is fundamentally vice president and as MP and lawyer prepared for this area, is very important for our oldest population, not only that unsuitable ideas, they probably think they are, come from the parliamentary group on our right hand, but it is truly incredible that in such conditions, and you do not seem to hear it, we continue to work. As for my amendment and article 145, I would say to you that at the very least, Mrs. Matkovic, it is morbid that what is proposed, because of one very important thing, and otherwise it should represent a certain kind of benefit for a family who loses their loved ones, so it is amazing that one of the members of the family dies, and that another member of the family, who should be left to care for others or be left alone without his spouse, must come and report to the death of the users from the day of publication of the copy of the death book of the deceased, and especially because of the fact that this can happen in another city and especially because of the fact that it can happen in the working days, during holidays, etc. How at the previous points of this article in 145, you've given an eight-day period everywhere. I think it would be more appropriate and especially because these people aren't able to think about such administrative matters within three days, when you don't give God, but that happens, they lose someone in your family.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27581	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 153. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 153 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 153rd amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 154 of the amendment, MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 156 of the amendment, MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Đuro Popovic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27582	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the MP group of the Soviet Union has proposed that Article 156, item 1, after the word "what" adds to the words "one representative of the users of the right appointed the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities of Labour". In attitude 2 after the word "retired" associations, the words are added, "that is, disabled workers". In heading 3 after the word "retired" are added to the words "reduced" or "reduced". Let me explain this amendment to you. On the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the minister pledged to declare today that this amendment is acceptable, so he would appeal to the minister to accept this amendment, to correct the injustice between disabled workers and the Alliance of Pensioners. Given the large number of disabled workers organised at the level of the Republic, at least one of their representatives should be on the board of directors of this Fund, which would allow them to directly protect their interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27583	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 156 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does he want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27584	And you, my Zealjo, have been betrayed by patience, needing more vaccines. In fact, the SRS proposal is that finally, at least in this law, it defines what representative representatives of an association are referring to. This is where the bill promoter calls, when he refuses the amendment of the SRS, to the Labour Act. You can't appeal to something that you, in one huge, big coalition, found was passed in an illegal, anti-business way. Besides, that labour law was a stumbling block that you and your coalition partners split up with yesterday. That's not the point now. Here's the thing. It's about one illogicality. At least here, in this law, to show the will to correct a mistake. The Pensioners' Association is an association of citizens. That's where we agree. The registration of the Association of Citizens or Examples works for the registration of NGOs requires 100 signatures. Here you say, a representative representative needs 50,000 signatures. What signatures, whose signatures? You want to be with the union, that the government determines what the representative union is. When the Independent Union or more specifically their leadership corresponds, they are resilient, no matter how many members are behind that leadership. When it's not responding in most cases, it's used, contacted or spoken to domestic unions, like pets to you. They used to be MPs, and sometimes union representatives, but well, that's your problem. In fact, there is no real reason not to define now in this law which representatives enter the board of directors of this fund. Why? For the simple reason to say once, let the pensioners' associations agree, pensioners' clubs, who is a representative and who will represent them, who will represent their interests. If he doesn't answer, let them change it, not let the government say, this is a pensioner's representative and he'll be a member of the trust board. How are you gentlemen going to explain or stand behind this explanation, where the minister is constantly calling for market conditions. How will you in the market economy, where privatisation has long begun, you, on behalf of the Government, determine who will be the employer's representative. What do you have to do with employers? You have nothing to do with it, gentlemen. You can't, as the government, as the executive authority, take it upon yourselves to determine which of the employers will enter there. The employers will agree, so they will give their representative, not that you always take those rights. I remind you again, do not appeal to a law that is against the Constitution and which has been passed against the Rules of Procedure in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27585	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27586	When it comes to representatives of employers appointed by the Government, the idea is of course, if you know what the number of people who are employed in education, health care, in the police, in social protection, it's all expensive one very large number of people, therefore it makes sense for the government to appoint employers in this fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27587	The 156th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? It's pulling the amendment. ) National MP Milorad Stanulov withdraws the amendment to Article 156 on behalf of the applicants of the amendments, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Members of the 158th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Cvetković, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirović, Joca Arsic and Đura Lazić together, together with the MPs Boris Pelevic, Dragan Marković, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić, Adam Urošević and Đuro Popović, together with the MPs Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The People's MP Radojko Petric has the word, so the MP Đuro Popovic, and the MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27588	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, dear Madam Minister, along with a group of SPS MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 159 of this law. It is said in this article that the president and vice-president of the Management Board shall elect and resolve the Management Board for two years. According to the draft law, the president and vice president shall be elected from their ranks by the Management Board, but with the mandatory consent of the Government. It is clear from what is said that the president and vice president do not choose the board of directors but are in fact appointed by the government. Starting from the fact that it is detailed that members of the Management Board choose one third of the representative unions, one third of the representative associations of employers organised at the level of the Republic and one third of the pensioners’ associations organised at the level of the Republic; it is inappropriate that the Government does not trust them. Given the high level of representativeness provided in the selection of board members, it is indeed too high and extremely undemocratic to prescribe that the president and deputy president can only be elected with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For those reasons, the amendment proposes to amend the Government's proposal and the President and Vice-President to choose the Management Board on his own. Indeed, in this case, the government's tutorship is excessive, unless it wants full centralization of the entire social life in its own hands. Let us bear in mind that excessive centralised is holding back the initiative of other actors in society, not to mention the harmful and dangerous consequences of the concentration of power in a small group of people, even if it is government members. If the government wants to appoint the president and vice president of the board of directors, let it make it clear in the law, without being distracted by the MPs and anyone else who will be working on the implementation of this law. So let's make it clear, they're going to set up a government. It's unnecessary to create some false coverts and complicate the procedure. If the government is indeed democratic, as it stands for, it will accept the amendment and allow the president and deputy president to choose from their own ranks and resolve the board of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27589	The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27590	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group has proposed that Article 159, paragraph 3, after the word "employees" put an end to it, and the words are deleted until the end. Let me explain this amendment to you. The Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group proposed that it be deleted "with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". In the relevant provisions of the draft law, a major impact of the Government has been adopted, conditional upon the adoption of the Statutes of the Fund, the establishment of the basis and rate of contributions, the annual work programme, Article 161, as well as the appointment of the Director of the Fund, Article 168 and second - which is why we consider it unacceptable for the Government to give consent both to the selection of the President and the Vice-President of the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27591	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27592	The objective of this amendment is to draw the attention of the Government to one of the illogicalities that it also implements in this article of the Bill of Law. The composition of the Management Board, when it comes to the PIO Fund, has practically three constituent sources, but all these sources are at the level of the Citizens' Association, or something formed on the principle of volunteering. This is also the situation with any association of employers, insurance companies, pensioners' associations as a beneficiary of rights. A similar situation is with these other two funds, where associations of insurance and employers appear. These are essentially voluntary organisations, but they appear as sources based on which people in the board of directors are delegated and the government reserves the right to appoint two in the PIO Fund alone of those five, and in all the funds it gives consent to the election of the chairman and vice president of the board of directors. The problem now arises because of the organic link between the Fund's management structure and the resources of the PIO Fund are in some way parafiscal, which should be interpreted as literally referred to as fiscal resources, because they enter into a consolidated public spending balance and, apparently, when the state appears as a guarantee, it does not just appear because it has prescribed the entire area of public revenue and public expenditure and included contributions to the system, but also because it guarantees the exercise of rights under the Constitution and therefore assumes certain obligations. In the third group of human rights, exercised rights, the state is an active participant, unlike a group of basic human rights, where it declares and does not enter human freedom content. This is the third aspect of the lack of this law, which will be practically inapplicable. In this way, the government says in some provisions, we do not have any major connections, solidarity and mutuality, some rules exist, but wants to give consent and to decide who will be president and vice president of the board of directors. In this way, the government indirectly assumes something that is not mandatory. Secondly, if the government wants to have an impact on the fund, it is achieved not through agreement on the choice of president and deputy president, but through a fundamental impact on the decisions of the fund. One of those decisions is probably the way Director Fodden chooses. We haven't had a good personnel structure in the PIO Fund before. All the doctors of the basic communities, and later the branches of the Fund, they're some party personnel. Unfortunately, that practice has continued.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27593	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to Article 164, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 168 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirović, Joca Arsic and Đura Lazic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has the word of MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27594	In short, the reasons are similar to the reasons for giving consent to the president, i.e. the deputy chairman of the board of directors. Here the right is given to the Government to give consent to the selection of a director who, normally, according to what is proposed in the law, comes for competition and should be elected by the board of directors. The government's consent is foreseen here. We don't think it's necessary if the government has no influence on the board of directors, and it realizes what it gives consent to, then we'll have V.D. status. This v.d. The situation will not benefit anyone, and if it has an impact on the board of directors, it will appoint a director who should be elected to that place after the competition has been completed. I think that the reasons are quite correct, that it is not necessary and necessary for the Government to give consent, I have already said, for the reasons mentioned, when it comes to our argument, the groups of SPS MPs, and when it comes to the chairman of the board of directors, i.e. his deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27595	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 170, to which the amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Lazic and Djordje Mamula. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 172, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Golub Rajic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran R. Angelković, Rade Bajić, Đura Lazić, Momir Radoic, Sreten Mitrović, Miomir Ilic, Slobodan Tomović, Milos Nešović, Dusan Cvetković, Živanko Radovanče, Živodarka Dacin, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milan Janković, Rajko Baralić, Bora Drakulović, Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants of the amendment, the word has the People's MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about the use of pension-inhabitation funds. In the applicable law, these funds are used to pay pensions and other cash benefits, to cover the costs of the work of the Fund's body and to carry out various analytical, legal, administrative, economic, social standard of pensioners and other obligations laid down by law. Under the new proposal, this provision relating to the social standard of pensioners is deleted. The government, in its argument, says that because of the stability of the Fund and because of the regularity of pension payments, and we know very well that in the applicable law this solution was in some way conditional, means, only in conditions if there is money and if pensions settle regularly. But regardless of the formality or condition of this provision, we believe this provision should be maintained. Simply, pensioners are in a very difficult position, today 60% are receiving a pension less average and should keep this provision. The minister has repeatedly talked here about certain inabilitys related to the proposed amendments, and what is important, pensions should not be 60% of the salary, as today is the situation, but let's say 80 or 85%, and if it continues with this model, the average pension may be 40% of the salary in two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27597	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27598	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, the SSJ Group has proposed that Article 173 after Article 1 adds a new position 2 which reads: "The funds of Article 1 of this Article may, in accordance with the Statute of the Fund, be used for the social standard of pensioners". Allow me to explain this amendment to you, starting from the difficult material position and the health status of the pensioner, or the largest number of users, whose pension is below average, and we believe that there is a need to foresee the possibility that the Fund's funds can be used to improve pensioner standards, i.e. Retirement of pensioners and the like. We believe that this is acceptable, because this issue, as proposed, is governed by the Statute of the Fund, to which the government gives its consent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27599	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27600	I would just like to say that, as we know, for 20 years practically the Fund's resources are not enough to pay the basic rights, and we also know that the previous law meant that such rights, such as the pensioner's social standard, can only be used after the settlement of the liabilities of Article 113, and these are pension payments and costs for the work of the Fund's authorities. Therefore, the payment of funds for the social standard of pensioners in some previous years, and no pensions were paid, was in fact a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27601	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. At the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić withdrew the amendment to Article 176. Members of the 181st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 200th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Soviet Parliament's group has proposed that in Article 201, the words "for all three categories of insurance" be replaced by the words "in the context of a particular category of insurance companies under Article 10 of this law". Let me explain this amendment. We find it unacceptable to establish by law that the contribution rates for insurance companies employed and self-employed insurance companies are the same. This team before, according to Article 161(1) point 4. The draft law, the contribution rates shall be determined by the Management Board of the Fund with the consent of the Government. As the level of the contribution rate is affected by different parameters, above all, the ratio of income and expenditure within each fund, the same rates of contribution for all categories of inhabitants cannot be established in advance. However, the solution proposed in the amendment does not exclude the possibility for rates to be the same, and in this case we had in mind that the current rates of contribution for employees were 19.6% and for independent actions 18%. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27603	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) At the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić withdrew the amendment to Article 202. The 204th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 214th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27604	In accordance with Article 214 of the criminal provisions, it is provided that a fine of between 5,000 and 400,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of the obligation to submit the data for the parent records - a company or another legal entity if it does not submit a registration of the data for the parent records or if that application is submitted after the expiry of the deadlines provided for in Article 145 of this Act. We have submitted an amendment replacing 400,000 dinars with an amount of 200,000 dinars. So, we're reducing the upper level of the fine because we think it's illogical and irrational to go with a fine of 400,000 dinars; there's more to the problem of those who control the entities that pay the contributions and fill out the applications than the level of the fine. At the same time, we give opportunity to an official who determines the penalty to abuse his function by being able to punish someone, to have a range and opportunity to punish between 5,000 and 400,000 dinars. We think a much better solution is that for a case like this, a person who has an obligation to report, fills in the application, is punished with the highest penalty of up to 200,000 dinars. Also, in the position of the 2nd same member when it comes to punishment for a natural person, an employer, the upper limit is 200,000 dinars, and we think that the purpose of punishment can also be achieved with an amount of 100,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27605	Do any of the other participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 215th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27606	Article 215. The bill also stipulates that a fine of between 5,000 and 400,000 dinars will punish the applicant for the violation of the application and state the reasons for which the fine will be imposed. It is also foreseen for a natural person the upper limit of fines of 200,000 dinars. We have suggested that the amount of 400,000 be replaced by 200 thousand dinars and the amount of 200 thousand replaced by 100,000 dinars. So, to halve the upper sentence. The reasons why we suggested this are the same as we said about Article 214.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27607	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been passed by Parliament MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27608	Please, Madam Chairman, using your powers under Article 96, and just to get into the stenogram, since you don't care how many MPs in the hall are sitting down, to determine the quorum in accordance with Article 94, so that we know how many of us are really here today. Here are mostly MPs who have explained their amendments, and there is no parliamentary majority that should support the government's proposal, which means the government has no support in parliament either.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27609	The National Parliament is called on in Article 94, where in the first position, the President of the National Assembly is allowed to terminate work if it determines the lack of quorum; therefore, I thank the suggestions and that I can set a break in work, and I thank thanks, for the suggestions, as well as in other cases when the National Assembly concludes this. My suggestion is that the MP who expresses suspicion of the quorum is to be called to Article 82. Rules of Procedure. You said Article 94; no, look at the stenogram ; you can't go out again, you can't throw it out of the bench. [[Gordana Pop-Lazic throws out of place, but you can't hear him]] So, the MP throws it out of the bench. You quoted Article 94, not Article 82, but the tolerance of this assembly implies that we have agreed, and for all the other comments you have made with the Rules of Procedure, please refrain and remain on the statement of a member of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to work with. I realize we have a quorum to work with and we continue to work. I ask the MPs not to receive and to continue the session in the afternoon. The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27610	There are other amendments concerning the level of punishment; we have checked, and that is in accordance with the regulations on violations. Of course, these are now things where you have the opportunity to put a larger or smaller sum, but the fact that punishment cannot be predicted to be revolving in any way; so, as they are put into law, so from now on, the law is going on, which, of course, leads to penalties being high. On the other hand, I think it's really important that for such violations that make it impossible for the Fund to function in a good way, these penalties are high, but that's all the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27611	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 216th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic together submitted the 217th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27612	The amendment to Article 217 concerns the reduction of the ceiling. We suggested that instead of 400,000 be 200,000 dinars for a legal person, instead of 200,000 dinars for a physical face be 100,000 dinars. I wouldn't repeat the reasons because they're the same as before.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27613	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone in the name of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27614	Dear People's MPs, we have submitted an amendment to place the point stuck in Article 219, instead of the point, and to add the words "if it is more favourable for them". The terms "in scope and manner established by this law" are also replaced by the words "in scope and in the manner laid down by the regulations which were in force until the date of entry into force of this law", and that Article 3 is amended and read as follows: "The rights laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article will be harmonised according to the provisions of this law". I'd like to give an explanation. By order of Article 24. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that rights acquired under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act cannot be taken away or restricted. As a result of this constitutional provision for the protection of acquired rights, we have proposed amendments to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article to ensure the equal position of all beneficiaries of pension and disability rights, regardless of the legal basis. The proposed amendments under paragraph 1 of this Article would allow beneficiaries of pension and disability insurance rights, which have achieved this right by the rules which have been in force until the date of entry into force of this law and which retain those rights in the extent to which they are more favourable, may request that their rights be provided in the scope and manner established by this law. This would ensure a level playing field for all beneficiaries of pension and disability rights. The proposed amendment to paragraph 2 of this Article, in particular in breach of the principle of protection of rights acquired, would ensure that beneficiaries of pension and disability rights, which have been exercised by the rules which were in force until the date of entry into force of this law, which are not laid down by this law, are entitled to do so even after the date of entry into force of this law, but subject to conditions, in scope and in such a way as to establish that law. The reason why the amendment of Article 3 of this Article is proposed is the provision of Article 222 of this Act, because any insurance undertaking that initiates the procedure for the exercise of pension and disability rights, until the date of entry into force of this Act, will exercise those rights by the rules which were in force until that day. So this would also apply to persons who launched the procedure for the exercise of these rights in 2003. For these reasons, we propose to the National Assembly to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27615	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Đuro Popovic. The government and the committee in charge propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27616	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, the Soviet Parliament's Group has proposed that Article 219, paragraph 1, put the point on the line and add the words "if that's more favourable for them". In point 2 of the word "confirms this law" is replaced by the words "confirmed regulations which were in force until the day of entry into force of this law". Paragraph 3 is amended and it reads: "The law of headings 1 and 2 of this article will be aligned according to the provisions of this law." Article 3 adds a new position 4 which reads as follows: "The law laid down in Article 1, which was achieved by insurance companies - farmers pay out the Republic Fund for pension and disability insurance of independent operations from funds providing the budget". Let me explain this amendment. The proposed changes in the positions of 1 and 2 of this Article aim to ensure consistent respect for the protection of rights acquired, as well as to ensure the equal position of all beneficiaries of pension and disability rights, regardless of the legal regime under which these rights have been exercised. In this particular case, we had in mind the provision of Article 24. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which rights acquired under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act cannot be taken away or restricted, which is particularly likely if this solution is adopted as proposed in Article 2(2). In accordance with the proposed provision of Article 2, translation of the right to the so-called so-called right would be carried out, inter alia. temporary cash compensation - used by unemployed people with disabilities – Article 224. A bill of law, which is unacceptable. This is because a disability pension can be achieved by an insurance company that loses its ability to do any job full-time. In order to achieve this right, additional solutions have been proposed aimed at tightening the conditions for the exercise of the right to a disability pension - Article 95. A bill of law, which we certainly support. However, when it is known that insurance companies who have obtained the right to so-called. a temporary fee fully capable of performing their or other relevant part-time work - another disability category, i.e. full-time - third category of disability, it is incomprehensible that this right under the force of the law, i.e. without reviewing the findings, evaluations and opinions by the disabled commission, is translated into disability pensions and 50% of that pension. Similarly, the solutions provided for in Articles 225 and 231 are unacceptable. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27617	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 220th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. The government and the Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 220 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic to Article 221. The government and the Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Velimir Simonovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 221a be added after article 221a. The government and the committee in charge have proposed that this amendment be rejected. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to add Article 221a, which would refer to the population born from 1939 to 1949. This population would be protected by my amendment. Many of them will be damaged under this new law. Not everyone, of course, but one part will be damaged. When discussed on the Committee, Mrs Matkovic cited certain arguments against this amendment, which even to some extent even hesitated me, so I was almost ready to withdraw the amendment. However, Mrs Matkovic again contributed to not giving up the amendment. The reason for the law on page 5 reads: "The new method of reckoning means more pensions for insurance companies who had a stable career and a longer internship. Lower pensions for those who only had much higher income during one part of their career, while during the rest of the working century they were significantly less paid. "I just want to protect those who didn't have a stable career. When Mrs. Matkovic also admits that there is such a thing as not to read this text again, then I believe that my amendment could be accepted, so much before it has no effect on the balance effects. It can even be positive or at least neutral, because these people will be working until 2007. If that doesn't happen, if the amendment isn't accepted, many will move to retire as soon as possible. He almost told me a friend, calculated that under the new law he would have 4,000 dinars less pension, so he applied to retire. It's not supposed to work, it's not good for the fund. They would have paid the Fund for at least four more years by 2007, and as long as my amendment has a limited fact, only to a generation that will retire by 2007. I therefore recommend, if possible, and perhaps technically not, that Mrs. Matkovic think about it a little more. I appeal to the MPs to read my argument carefully and finally accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27619	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggest that this amendment be rejected. People's MP Đuro Popovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27620	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party suggested "if this law is not otherwise defined" in the words "if it is for the insurance company more favourable". Let me explain this amendment to you. The proposed amendment is in accordance with the general rules on the time-limit of the law, as well as the principle of legal certainty, i.e. the principle that the decision-making under the submitted requirements is carried out in accordance with the rules which were in force at the time of the application, i.e. the initiation of the procedure, if that is more favourable for the insurance undertaking. Therefore, we suggest that the National Assembly adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27621	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Amendments proposing that members of 224 to 231 be deleted in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and other and national MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. The government and the Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. We have no opinion from the Legislative Committee. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. We have no opinion from the Legislative Committee. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. Is anyone applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 231st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggest that this amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27622	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party has proposed that Article 241 of Article 2 be deleted. Let me explain this amendment to you. This amendment proposes erasing the position of the 2nd member who is inaccurate and excessive. Namely, only the examination under official duty finds and opinions of the authority of the art, on which rights based on disability are recognised, as it is formulated, does not mean the possibility of abolishing the right. The decision proposed under Article 1 shall be comprehensive and shall include the need for a preliminary review of the findings, assessments and opinions of the body of expertise, provided that pension and disability insurance rights are achieved on the basis of these findings, and hence the possibility of abolishing those rights. I hereby propose that the National Assembly adopt this proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27623	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 243 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. Is there an application for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirović, Joca Arsic and Đura Lazic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggest that this amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27624	The Honored Presidency, Madam Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 241. The bill and this is the last amendment our MP group has submitted to this bill. We suggest that in Article 241 at the end of Article 2, the point is deleted and the following text is added: "and this also finds the opinions of the artificial organs given in time from five years ago until the entry into force of this law." We want to limit this amendment to a five-year deadline in which findings and skills will be subject to skill. In view of the principle of legal certainty of citizens, and practical reasons for the application of the law, it is in our opinion that deadlines should be set until a review of the findings and opinions of the artificial organs can be carried out. I don't think it would be too bad if this amendment were accepted, because I don't know where that would lead if we didn't arm it, and if we were to question it incessantly. I've seen in your explanation that you're seeking to question all these pensions. I don't mind, but I think it'd be a waste of time going back a lot, and I think it's a good thing that it goes back five years from the day of entry into force. As long as I'm here, I don't know how you might be able to help from the resolution ministry when it comes to the pensions of people from Kosovo and Metohija. Contributions for pension and disability insurance and other contributions were paid there, however, because of the documentation below and due to the interruption of the single terminal on that route, many people who need to make a pension are not able to obtain M4 forms based on which they could gain insight, i.e. to exercise the right to pension, to calculate their amount and the right to pension. I think that, as a government, you should do everything you can to allow these people to get to those patterns and to exercise those rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27625	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 145th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggest that this amendment be rejected. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 245 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. Is there an application for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 253 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. Is there an application for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 245 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. Is there an application for a word? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 262 be added after Article 261. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment. Is there an application for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggest that this amendment be rejected. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Stanulov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27626	Dear Mrs Micic, respected Madam Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, Article 263 provides that this law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", except for the provisions of Article 192 of this Law in the work relating to the basis for the conduct of the tasks referred to in Article 12(3) of this Act and Article 196 of this Law, which apply from 1 July this year. With our amendment, my colleague Grbić and I propose that this delay in the application of the provisions applies to insurance companies referred to in Article 11(1) of point (10), i.e. persons who carry out temporary and occasional tasks through youth cooperatives. The fact is that members of youth cooperatives have so far had no right to PIO and that a significant number of young people will be covered by this law. Since there is no experience in regulation and application of the right to this type of insurance, that it is 30 days to lay down rules for the enforcement of this law under Article 240(1) of this Act, we believe that the planned delay by 1 July of this year will allow quality preparation of cooperatives and youth cooperatives for the realisation of these rights. I suggest you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-26-0.u27627	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the closing statement? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, I hereby set Tuesday, 1 April at 10.00 a.m. as voting day, when the next session of the National Assembly will most likely be scheduled. Just one more announcement, tomorrow is the 10.00th session of the Legislative Committee. Good-bye and good-bye. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 160 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Borisvoje Drakulovic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Pension and Disability Insurance in principle and in particular, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle, details and generality. I put the draft law on pension and disability insurance in principle. There's something wrong with this electronic voting system, we don't have a result. For 121 against 11, with five abstentions, eight of the 145 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that the amendments were drawn by the MPs Dragan Rafaelovic and Predrag Stojanovic to the members of Articles 3, 13, 16 and 16a, who submitted their amendments on 19 February 2003; that at the session of the Committee on Labour, Borary and Social Affairs, the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbic withdrew the amendments to Articles 133, 140, 176 and 202; that at the session of the Legislative Committee, MP Dragan Rafaelovic withdrew the amendment to Article 10(3), which he submitted together with the MP Predrag Stojanović; and that during the review of the draft legislation in the details of the amendments to Article 156, the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodlag Grbić were withdrawn. I also remind you that during the search of the Bills in particular, it has been found that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become an amendment: -Government of the Republic of Serbia to Members 42, 55, 69, 137, 153, 168, 170 and 220; -national MPs Dragan Rafailovic and Predrag Stojanovic to Article 13; -national MP Zoran Micovic to Member 13; -national MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Cvetkovic, Golub Rajic, Bora Stanimirović, Joce Arsic and Đure Lazić to member 36; -national MPs Boris Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petrovic, Milos Lukić, Adam Urosevic and Đure Popović to Members 38 and 93; - National MPs Slobodan Janić to Members of the 18; - National Members of the Members of the People of the People of the People's Parliament of the 18; - 999 and of Nov. Since the Legislative Committee on a number of amendments, which were adopted by the Government and the Committee on Labour, the Boring and Social Issues, considers that they are legally possible, I find that they have thus become an integral part of the Bills and Amendments: the Governments of the Republic of Serbia to Articles 243, 245, 253, 254, and the amendment to add a new Article 261 to Articles 262, as well as amendments of the People's MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Bojan Kostres to Articles 224, 226, 226, 227, and 231. The Legislative Committee carried out a legal and technical editorial of the text of the draft law contained in the Committee's report. We're moving on to decision-making in detail. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 39, against 122, 39 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and other and joint MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 123, two abstentions, were not voted 44, out of a total of 200 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic on Article 5. For 38, against 119, there was no 44 vote, a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the same text as Article 10 together with the MPs Borislav Pelevic and the second and national MP Zlatan Jovanovic. For 31, against 122, 48, a total of 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. For 39, against 122, a abstentioned one, was not voted 42, a total of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote the amendments tabled together by the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbić. For 41, against 107, three abstentions, they did not vote 53, a total of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MPs Borislav Pelevic and other and people's MP Dragan Colic on Article 13. For 33, against 122, 50, a total of 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 35, against 122, a abstentioned one, was not voted 47, a total of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 34, against 119, 52, a total of 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others. For 36, against 117, 52, a total of 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by the MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic on Article 17. For 40, against 121, there was no 44 vote, a total of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbic on Article 17. For 50, against 105, a abstentioned one, did not vote 51, a total of 205 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were tabled together by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others, on Article 18. For 35, against 113, 56, a total of 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by the MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 34, against 118, 52, a total of 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. For 41, against 120, there was no 44 vote, a total of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to article 18. 86, a total of 205 MPs, did not vote against 119. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on 19th. 84, a total of 205 MPs, did not vote against 121. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to vote amendments submitted to Article 20 by MPs Radojko Petrovic and others. For 31, against 116, 58, a total of 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to article 20. Against 120, there was no 84 vote, a total of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to vote amendments to amend subtitle 2 in Chapter VI, which were submitted by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and the second and Borislav Pelevic and others. For 36, against 117, 50 of the 203 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted together by MPs Slobodana Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. For 60, against 120, it was not 24 out of 204 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted together by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others and Borislav Pelevic and others. For 36, against 120, 49 of the 205 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which is proposed to add a new member of 21a after Article 21a, which were submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others. For 35, against 122, 48 of the 205 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which is proposed to add a new article 21a after Article 21a, which was submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 31, against 118, 56 of the 205 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which is proposed to add new members of 21a, 21b, after Article 21. and 21v, who were submitted by the MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic. For 41, against 118, a abstentioned one, was not voted 45 out of 205 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which is proposed to add a new member of the 24th article, which was submitted by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and the second and Borislav Pelevic and others. For 37, against 119, a abstentioned one, was not voted 49, out of 206 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, which is proposed to add a new subtitle after Article 25, which was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others. For 35, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 53, out of 207 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 35, against 117, 55 of the 207 MPs have not voted, I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Lazar Marjanski to article 26. Against 121, 86 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which is proposed to add a new subtitle and a new member after Article 26, submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. For 40, against 119, 49 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which was tabled by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, on Article 28. By 7, against 101, with two abstentions, it did not vote 98 out of 208 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 31, against 116, 61 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which is proposed to add a new Article 29a, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic, after Article 29. Against 119, 89 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which is proposed to add a new Article 29a, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others, after Article 29. For 33, against 118, 57 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic on Article 30. Valda suggests he refuses and the boards accept. For 83, against 42, with five abstentions, did not vote 77, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by the MPs Borislav Pelevic and others on Article 33. For 34, against 114, 59 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to article 34. For eight, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 91, out of 207 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, proposing that new subtitles and new members of 36a and 36b be added after Article 36b, submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 32, against 117, 57 of the 206 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 37 by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. For one, against 117, a abstentioned one, was not voted 88 out of 207 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to article 40. Against 119, a abstentioned one, did not vote 87 out of 207 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others, which propose that a new subtitle and new members of 40a be added after article 40a. and 40b. For 26, against 119, they did not vote 63 out of 208 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic on article 41. For one, against 121, 86 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic, proposing that a new subtitle 5a and a new member of 41a be added after article 41a. Against 120, 88 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 43, which were submitted together by MPs Radojko Petrovic and others, as well as MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. For 34, against 118, they did not vote 53, out of 205 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 45th Joint Members of Parliament Radojko Petric and others to vote. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the committees also accepted the amendment during the debate. For 152, against eight, it did not vote 47 out of 207 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Radojko Petric and others on Article 46. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and proposed that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. For 153, against three, it did not vote 50 out of 206 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, proposing to amend the title above members 60th and Article 60th. For 16, against 100, with four abstentions, it did not vote 86 out of 206 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic as member of the 60th. Against 117, 87 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of the amendment tabled jointly by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others, and MP Zoran Krasic, who are proposing that Articles 61 to 70 be deleted in Chapter VIII. For 36, against 116, 55 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by a group of MPs, Nebojsa Jovic and others, which are proposed to add new members of 73a, 73b and 73v after article 73v. For 33, against 119, 55 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others, which propose that a new subtitle and members of 73a, 73b and 73v be added after article 73v. For 34, against 118, it did not vote 55 out of 207 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic, who are proposing that a new subtitle and new members of 73a and 73b be added after article 73b. For 43, against 116, 50 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, on Article 74, which was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic, and during a review of the draft law in particular, Dr Gordana Matkovic, a proposing representative, accepted this amendment. The committee responsible has proposed that the amendment be rejected. For 117 against 8, it did not vote 82 out of 207 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others, which propose that a new subtitle and a new member of 74 be added after article 74. For 32, against 119, 57 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, which is proposed to add a new subtitle to chapter 8 after article 74, which was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others. For 34, against 118, 57 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which was tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic as member of the 75th. For one, against 119, 88 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Lazic and Djordje Mamula on Article 75. For 43, against 115, 49 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and the other and joint MPs, Borislav Pelevic and others, on the same text in last year 75. For 33, against 117, 59 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to Article 78, which were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. For 39, against 115, 57 of the 211 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing to amend the name of the IJ chapter, which was submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 34, against 112, 66 of the 212 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were put to the vote in 80th, together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 38, against 117, 57 of the 212 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which were submitted together by MPs Dragan Lazic and Djordje Mamula on Article 80. For 55, against 111, a abstentioned one, was not voted 44, out of 211 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Radojko Petric and others on Article 80. For 39, against 112, 60 of the 211 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on article 80. Against 115, it did not vote 96 out of 211 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments tabled together by Members of the 81st National MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 37, against 113, 61 of the 211 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Borislav Pelevic and others on Article 94. For 36, against 115, no vote of 60, of the 211 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 95th Joint Members of the People's Parliament, Radojko Petric and others, together. For 34, against 116, 61 of the 211 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 96th vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 34, against 116, 61 of the 211 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 97th joint vote by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others. For 37, against 117, a abstentioned one, was not voted 57, of 212 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 97th vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 36, against 116, 59 of the 211 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 98th vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 35, against 114, he did not vote 61, out of 210 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 100th Joint Members of the People's Parliament together, Borislav Pelevic and others. For 37, against 119, 56 of the 212 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 100th vote together by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others. For 36, against 113, 62 of the 211 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted together by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic, the MPs Borislav Pelevic and the other and joint MPs Dragan Lazic and Djorđe Mamula and MP Stevan Kesejić. For 78, against 118, 17 of the 213 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others on Article 114. For 36, against 121, 57 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by Members of the 116th National MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 36, against 115, a abstentioned one, was not voted 62 out of 214 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by Members of the 133th National MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 33, against 116, 66 of the 215 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 140th vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 33, against 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted 61, out of 215 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 145 by Natasa Jovanovic. For 3 against 119, 93 of the 215 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 153th vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 32, against 117, 66 of the 215 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by Members of the 154th National MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 33, against 117, 64 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by Members of the 156th National MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 36, against 115, 64 of the 215 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Miroslav Mircic to Article 156. For two, against 117, one abstention, did not vote 95 out of 215 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by Members of the 158th National MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 38, against 115, two abstentions, 59 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Radojko Petrovic and the other and joint MPs, Borislav Pelevic and other and national MP Zoran Krasic, on the same text. For 35, against 119, 60 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 164th vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 37, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 56, out of 215 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 164th vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 34, against 117, the vote was not 63, of the 214 MPs. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 165. The government has accepted this amendment, and the committee in charge has refused. For 115, against three, abstention four, did not vote 92, out of 214 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Radojko Petric and others on Article 168. For 38, against 110, 66 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Dragan Lazic and Djordje Mamula on Article 172. For 56, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 42, out of 214 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted to Article 172 together by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others. For 36, against 119, 59 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 173th vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 29, against 118, 67 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 181st vote together by the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbic. For 42, against 81, with four abstentions, did not vote 86 out of 213 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 199 vote together by the MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 35, against 117, 60 of the 212 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 200th vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 31, against 115, it did not vote 65 out of 211 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs, Borislav Pelevic and others, on Article 201. For 34, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 54, out of 210 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others on Article 204. For 35, against 122, 54 of the 211 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. For 40, against 115, 59 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 215th vote together by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. For 45, against 113, 56 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 216th vote together by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. For 46, against 110, there was no vote of 58, of the 214 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. For 46, against 116, 52 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojnovic on Article 218. For 46, against 107, he did not vote 61, of the 214 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and others on Article 219. For 36, against 119, there was no vote of 58, of the 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others on Article 219. For 31, against 118, 64 of the 213 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in Article 219(3). The draft law provides a feedback to this provision. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, shall in particular decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee have established that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 219(3). It's a bill of law. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia contained Article 219(3). The draft law on the feedback of this provision, which, according to the government's assessment, is of general interest. For 124, against 53, with two abstentions, there were no 35 votes, of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 219(3). It's a bill of law. I put the amendments to the 220th vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 35, against 119, 60 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Marko Djurisic to Article 221. For three against 115, two abstentions, they did not vote 94, of the 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Velimir Simonovic suggested adding a new member of 221a after article 221a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103, against 95, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, of the 214 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted to Article 222, together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 39, against 106, it did not vote 68 out of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on a vote by the amendment proposing that members from 224 to 231 be deleted, together submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and other and national MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 37, against 118, it did not vote 57, of the 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 241st vote together by MPs Borislav Pelevic and others. For 33, against 117, he did not vote 61, of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 241st vote together by MPs Radojko Petric and others. For 36, against 119, 57 of the 212 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 245th vote together by MPs Slobodan Adzic and Dragoljub Vojinovic. For 60, against 119, 35 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 263th vote together by the MPs Milorad Stanulov and Ljubodrag Grbic. For 92, against 97, two abstentions, they did not vote 23, of the 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This concludes our decision on the amendments and we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on pension and disability insurance in general. For 126, against 79, with five abstentions, four of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. After considering and deciding on this item of the agenda, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003. (The session is closed at 12.30 p.m. )
