ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at the first point of our agenda - the initiative to resolve the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Natasha Micic, we have heard in the last four days a lot of things that can mostly come down to three: one of the reasons for the shift; the second most frequently mentioned word for this speaker, about 300 times in my record, is elections; the third thing is - who has the majority. I would take this opportunity to sum up what has been said in these four days on these three subjects. I'd like to remind you of some things that may have been forgotten. The first thing is who launched the initiative to resolve Mrs. Micic, which is radicals, both socialists, along with quiet, behind the pay phone a little louder, in front of the newspaper rather quietly supported by the Democratic Party of Serbia and G-17 plus. Second, what's the plan? I will remind you that a pre-election campaign is under way to elect the president of Serbia. I would remind you that, as much as everyone is running away from it, one of the consequences of what the proposings and those who support the promoters in this matter hope is to replace Mrs. Micic, who at the same time is the acting Serbian president, at a small door to a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, to return without a choice of Socialists to power, as they will very hard to return again, in some significant number, to the elections. Having nothing against Mr. Maravic, I even personally like him, I must say that one of the consequences for which this new coalition of Socialists, radicals, DSS, G-17 plus here is that Serbia gets an unselected V.D. The president of the SPS. That's the thing we're gonna stop here. The second thing that was said here yesterday, it's the very length of the debate. I must remind you that there is a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that we all knew that there is something in that Rules of Procedure that is foreseen for the debate, that we all knew that in this scheduled time for the debate the one who is proposing, in this case it is a parliamentary group of the Serbian Radical Party, there is an unlimited time of discussion, that less than two hours, in the total time of the debate, went to the DOS-Reform group, that less than half an hour went to the very replicas of Mrs Micicicic, and that we are sitting here for four days. Don't let us listen to the story of who wants it faster and who wants it shorter. I'll explain why this debate is embarrassing for some of you. The emissaries in the benches are insolent. I listened to you for four days, and now you listen to me a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the initiative of the Serbian Radical Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia, the National Socialists for the Change of Mrs Micicic came on the agenda, we knew at the beginning that we would have an extended version of the pre-election campaign here. We, like the people who have our presidential candidate in that campaign, are not running away from that campaign. We don't think the National Assembly is where election campaigns are being run. The National Assembly is a place where qualified discussions should be held, where quality laws should be adopted, not pre-election campaigns. What happened? Those who quietly support the radicals had to support them loudly here, here, for this pay phone. They're already embarrassed. They already suffer the consequences of this because of the first thing they had to do, which is that when they declare the agenda, they take it off the agenda, along with radicals, energy law, rail law, environmental law. They're already feeling the consequences of it. They're a little uncomfortable, so they explained a little bit that they didn't suggest it, but that it was done for a quicker discussion. But the wolf ate the donkey. We all know what happened here. Believe me, people in the EPS know that, people in the rails know poachers who opened whiskeys because there won't be a million dinars, as far as this was planned by the new law, but there will be 30,000 dinars left for contaminants. It's the result of that coalition that you'd like to hide now by making a faster-better voice. Two things, very often, were mentioned as Mrs. Micic's sin in this debate. On behalf of the Democratic Party and the DOS-Reform parliamentary groups, I would refer to these very two things. One of those two things is that she was intolerant and harsh towards the opposition. The second is that she took advantage of the position of acting president of Serbia and introduced a state of emergency, which is correct. Let's remind ourselves now what the Serbian parliament looked like during Mrs Micic's presidency, and what it looked like in the last ten years, what this parliament looked like, and what it looked like was the parliament where most of them had just submitted to this initiative. Every intelligent enough was a clear game of the former president of Serbia, so Yugoslavia, the former president of everything in Serbia, Mr Milosevic, and this fiction were radicals. The message of Mr Milosevic was: give the Serbs democracy and here is Seselj; you will have primitiveism, violence, conflicts, shouting, shit. (loud disdain of the MPs from the bench.) Someone had to get in the way of it. Someone had to stand in the way of everything we and in this congregation, unfortunately, had a chance to hear. A few of my colleagues yesterday mentioned all the beautiful expressions used by some MPs here until Natasha Micic arrived and began to punish. As annoying as this may be, Mrs. Micic has succeeded. Look at this debate. Radicals are disciplined, fine, normal, talking about a subject that's on the agenda. It is Mrs. Micic's success and I congratulate her on that success. The next thing that Mrs. Micic takes for a sin is to seduce the state of emergency on March 12th. [[Applause]] Several speakers here mentioned that black day for Serbia. I'll remind you of what happened on March 12th. Ladies and gentlemen, hours after Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was killed, the DSS, G-17 plus, mice came out of the holes to build a government of national unity and return to the rule of socialists and radicals. Dismissing MPs. This had to be cut. Someone here, counting the sins of Mrs. Micic's emergency caller, said it was a state of war. That's right. It was a state of war for criminals in this country. On that move, I also congratulate Mrs. Micic. To mice who wanted to use March 12th to come to power, let it serve as an honor. Serbian citizens will be able to appreciate that. The other thing that's been a lot of talk is most of it. I mentioned most when I said that the new majority, or as the lawyers would say most in an attempt, made by the SRS, the SPS, the DSS, the National Socialists and the G-17 plus, demonstrated most of it here when it was due to be brought down from the agenda of some reform law and that, unfortunately, is true. DS, DOS has checked most of the time. She checked the majority in September 2000, December 2000, October 5, 2000. By adopting reform laws 109 times in this assembly we have checked most of it, we have checked it in Priboj, Svilinc and in many re-elections in Serbia and we are always ready to check that majority. Unfortunately, most people here are targeted by those who most often try to build it in the hallway. When a quorum crisis is to be made, when the budget is to be postponed by one day, when the adoption of tax laws is to be postponed, most of the 126 and earlier are to be formed in this assembly, mainly in the hallway. Mostly in the O.R., we heard from Mrs Mojovic that they had successfully, on which I congratulate them, formed the majority at the register, because it is obvious that those who in this parliament were the majority in raising the diaries. But it also serves to honor the people who did it. That majority, ladies and gentlemen, that we saw here when we adopted the agenda, will have to be checked again. First, it will have to be checked in Serbia's president's elections on November 16th, and I hope one of you is allowed to bet with me who will then have a majority. The other thing we talked about here, which is also going to be one big check, is the election. What's going on in this assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament? Mr. Martian, you'll get a chance to replicate here. In that replica, I hope you'll explain to me, MPs and citizens, how you'll make a government when you can't control your own shadow government. Mr. Marsicanin, a few days ago Mr. Mladen Rankovic, a member of the government's shadow for agriculture, fled from the government, joined the Democratic Party, and you will have the opportunity to explain it here. How you're going to make a government, and you can't even control this one in the shadows. So the election. In fact, this debate, ladies and gentlemen, helps the citizens of Serbia because it mentions the word of the elections in many places. It will help Serbian citizens decide what to do in the presidential elections, and thank you for giving me and other MPs the opportunity to mention it here. It will, however, help citizens to identify themselves, since for the first time and through this debate, both through the presidential campaign and through a campaign that is obviously very fast for the parliamentary elections, we have a very simple question to ask the citizens of Serbia, and that is the question: "Serbia, what do you want to look like? ". I think they can also choose between democratic forces, on the one hand, and the unprincipled coalition of Socialists, radicals, DSS and G-17 plus, on the other hand. They can choose between Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Micic; they can choose between Mr Djelic, whom they will have the opportunity to listen here tomorrow when the debate on the government begins, and combinations of Socialists and Radicals; between Mrs Matkovic and the DSS-SPS combination. It will be a very good demonstration exercise for Serbian citizens and I think they will put a finger on the head, see that what they have in this parliament is the same thing they will have on the ballots and on November 16th, and in the next parliamentary elections, and that choice will make it easier for them. Gentlemen who wish for these elections, I tell you, if I were you, I wouldn't be so happy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33822	Right on line, MP Dragan Marsicani. A replica based on direct reference, MP Dragan Marsicanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33823	I had no doubt I'd be entitled to a replica. Today we were listening to the quote again of that briefing that I mentioned yesterday and we heard the same more difficult ones as the other days. I'm going to have to approach them in a different way. A national MP, a great experience, praised me yesterday, and of course that's his subjective assessment, saying that yesterday I spoke very pedagogically from this pay phone, addressing DOS lawmakers as serious people, as people who need nothing to provoke or insult in any way. But the arguments obviously didn't help, so that story about the coalition, let's look at it from the other side. If yesterday we found that there are no coalitions in voting on certain points of the agenda, if we found that coalitions only exist when they are formed before the elections for a joint vote in the elections, and when we found that yesterday we voted on a simple issue, even for the MPs of the DOS, and when the MPs of the DOS on this simple question, who could chew and make the right decision, voted on the SRS proposal, I said "here is an example of how simple issues can be reached, without any coalition," and of course they are not coalitions. So, I almost forgot what was the point of Mr. Srdja Popovic, but my main goal is to point out these exact attempts, to create from something that does not exist, to create an illusion of something that exists from a non-existent coalition, and to create an illusion of something that is a real problem in this assembly, which is the President of the Assembly, and the Republic Government, something that is successful. One more thing about coalitions. If you keep repeating, let's look on the other side, let's imagine that some coalition exists and that this coalition was created on the issue of trust and trust to the president of the Parliament, so let's see who makes that coalition. Most DOSs from 2000. The Democratic Party of Serbia, G-17, SPO, New Serbia, the Initiative for Normal Serbia, several free MPs, former DOS MPs, and, by nature of things, by the nature of its opposition functions and status, the opposition parties we call the former regime's parties. Then ask yourselves, gentlemen, who actually supports you in Serbia? Nobody. If these are not the parties representing the citizens of this Serbia, the parties that were in 2000, the ones that contributed decisively to the changes... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... an earlier regime. And to agree on one thing as undeniable, the regime fell in 2000 and paid the political price. The political price is paid in elections, such as those from the party of the former regime, after the election, you will be party to the former regime. When the elections pass, you will pay the political price in those elections for the poor functioning of the authorities over the past three years, but that will pay the price and then the authority will be responsible for the exercise. This is what I end up with. I see, thank you, Mrs. Comic, for not interrupting me, a really very tolerated session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33824	I broke up like every speaker in three minutes and 20 seconds, and I'm waiting for four minutes to pass, so let me say four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33825	Here, I'm ending this moment. I am pleased to see another change of attitude among the MPs of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia no longer raise the question of whether the DSS will form a government. Today the question is more serious, how will it form a government? (President: Four minutes. Very easy, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33826	The People's MP Vjerica Radeta, MP Zarko Obradović, MP Bojan Pajtic and MP Dejan Mihajlov are registered for the replica, and we also have the application of the promoter and the promoter has priority over the reported. In this order, as I have said the names of the People's MPs, they will receive the right to reply. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, right to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33827	Ladies and gentlemen, today we've stepped down, obviously, from the subject and started talking like a pre-election rally, and no one has the strength or the courage to schedule it except the SRS. I suggest once again, if you want to talk like a rally, please, schedule a rally, I guess the people will come and hear you. It is absolutely clear to me that this kind of hatred stemming from certain speeches by the Democratic Party's representatives, because, above all, whoever loses has the right to be angry. There's nothing we can blame them for. The reasons for being angry are also likely that the young gentleman had nowhere to bathe this year, because the pool where he bathed these years was buried. And I heard of him for the first time in 1996-1997, when he faithfully waited in front of France 1, where we had the party's headquarters in time, to greet Dr Vojislav Seselj, then I guess in the belief that it was a man who was a fighter for democracy, for parliamentary democracy, all happy when President Seselj called him a good day or welcomed him, since he was then a councilman of the City Assembly, he would leave France 1 to come again at the same time to worship him. Now something has changed, and it has changed that Vojislav Seselj received 1,070,000 votes in the autumn, when the presidential elections were held, which was very frightening to the Democratic Party, which was clear that if elections were held in February, the number of votes could increase significantly and it is quite certain that now Tomislav Nikolic, thanks to the holding of President Seselj in The Hague, and you will see this today at a status conference and for the reason that the SRS has not been broken, which is still behind its president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, which is even more determined to fulfil the vow given to both the Serbian people and its president, that the DOS will be removed from power, because this is the greatest evil that could happen to the Serbian people. You remember what happened on February 23rd, at that magnificent rally in Belgrade, Vojislav Seselj told the Serbian people - please forgive me for leaving, and I did not finish the job I intended to finish. He started it, we're done these days. We bring down the government and Natasa Micic here in parliament and bring down the government and we demand, and we will certainly win, the extraordinary parliamentary elections, after these presidential elections, because Tomislav Nikolic will strongly defeat the Democratic Party candidate, Mr Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33828	The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, who is an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Replication to the presentation of MP Srdja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33829	I fully understand the anxiety of the MPs from DOS. They are well aware that they are still very short on MPs' benches and that many of them will never again have the opportunity to be MPs, and by leaving this hall, most DOS MPs are losing great privileges that they have drawn to themselves as MPs. They lose many public enterprises across Serbia that have seized, lost the privileges and loans they have received for their private businesses, lose their ability to travel around the world on state spending. Never, Mr. Srdjo Popovic, any SRS MPs have travelled abroad at the expense of the National Assembly, and since you mention arrivals at the register, be a moral man, so tell us here how many DOS MPs have traveled about the state spending all over Europe and around the world, be moral and tell the public who paid for the taxi ride to Mrs. Nedi Arneric from Bodrum to Istanbul, who paid her a plane ticket from Istanbul to come here and vote, if it was true that she was and that she voted, who paid Mr. Novakovic's ticket from Thessaloniki last year to be here at the vote, if he really was. When you talk about how people's money is spent, then say how money is spent past the normal wages of the MPs and past the normal diaries and the pauses that earn and all the MPs take. As for the item of the agenda and the violation of Mrs. Natasa Micic's constitution, the Constitutional Court has decided that Article 5i 3. The law on the election of the President of the Republic, which you have adopted, that is, your majority voted to amend this law on the election of the President, that this member is unconstitutional two days after Mrs Natasa Micicic has now called the elections. Obviously, therefore, there was an agreement between Ms. Natasa Micic and the Constitutional Court, why he had not reported in so many months before, and yesterday Mrs. Micic claimed that she had never broken the Constitution. Here, this is a concrete example of a violation of the Constitution of the President of Parliament. As for Mr. Srjko Popovic, the radical culture, our behavior has been caused by you, the people's doglets of DOS, by your throw... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... and the articulated sounds and the behavior of Mrs. Natasa Micic, who always had one archaic trade, and one archaic for the MPs of DOS. We've just been showing our voters that we're ready for anything to represent them here in the way our voters expect us to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33830	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group. Replication to the presentation of MP Srdja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33831	I will, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, say a few words about Mr Popovic's exposure and these incorrect qualifications. We're discussing this agenda point and the next two, because that's what the congregation majority wanted. If DOS was wondering, we wouldn't be sitting here today talking about this. On the 15th evening, the DOS decided: 1) to remove these points from the agenda; 2) if they are removed, or if they do not do as they wish, to discuss extraordinary elections. It's been how many days, you keep quiet, you don't mention the election, and they know it will be. The second thing, remember bidding on the congregation majority, 138, 131, 129, etc. It was what it was - charges related to pre-election campaigns and elections. The SPS is not participating in these presidential elections. We have candidates, but we don't want to participate in the election that was scheduled nine months later, when DOS fit or thinks it suits them. Look at how many people there are at Mr. Micunović's pre-election meetings, so it'll all be clear to you when one hall cannot be filled, but that's the problem you'll be paying for. I really expected my colleague Popovic to try to deny something from what we, the Socialists, spoke about Mrs. Micic in his presentation. Here he is obviously trying to transfer the discussion to another political field; the story, we, they, before, what, and I wish he had tried to say that Mrs. Micic did not counter-constitutionally introduce an emergency. That's where it says, Article 83. The Constitution - the state of emergency can be introduced into part of the territory and so on. We've seen how the state of emergency was introduced. I expected him to try to say that when an emergency is imposed, there is no provision that allows people to be shut down for more than 30 days without the court's decision. Such a provision was annulled by the Constitutional Court's decision on the proposal for Mr Batic's law. Of course, the Constitutional Court should not strike V.D. The president of Serbia. I expected Mr Popovic to try to deny that it was not legalisation, i.e. stealing parliamentary mandates, seven parliamentary mandates of the SPS, a year before the Constitutional Court decided. He also tried to deny that there was a theft during the vote. Tell me, there was Mrs. Neda Arneric here, confirm that Mr. Rafaelovic was there, and here we have our two MPs and their cards have been misused. No, you don't have anything to say, because these are notorious truths, and then it's easier to transfer the story to the political field. About the election; the election will be, yesterday was Turkey, the day before was Priboj, a few months ago it was in 33 municipalities, there were additional elections in December 2001, in fact in November they were in 18 municipalities, the results are simple and famous, and everyone knows it, just you don't know it. You stick your head in the sand like a noose, but for nothing, the line is underline and you can't pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33832	The word has a People's MP Bojan Pajtic, a replica of the presentation of MP Dragan Marsican, the People's MPs of Vjerica Radeta and MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33833	And the folk emissaries of Gordana Pop-Lazic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the DSS who, yesterday we pointed out behind the pay phone, remained in March 2001 in an absolute minority within the DOS and nothing has changed lately. So 16 parties were on one side, on the other side was the DSS. What has been the political interest of the DSS since March 2001 is to exploit what all DOS parties have invested in, in Mr Kostunica and his party, which was the presidential party and which has suddenly had a much greater rating than it deserves, and that is the whole story. Now, of course, we have some parties that are in the interest of political profiling, whether they distance themselves or not, that's another question, but that's the pre-election atmosphere again, and that's logical. As far as the coalition is concerned, there is no coalition on technical issues. Of course, we, as a group, have suggested that yesterday be done until the previous agenda point, again DSS, radicals, G-17 did not support it, and therefore today we have one day longer debate and so much about those in the interest of extending the debate or not in the interest of extending it. The coalition is shown in the vote on system laws. Why is the law on energy, railways, ecology torn down, why is the law on changes and additions to the Law on Broadcasting, which is why you voted against these laws with radicals, with G17 plus, is that a political stance and that is the political stance of gentlemen, not whether we will work until 18:30 or 19:00. The political stance is the definition between the SPS and the GSS, the political stance is between whether Natasa Micic will chair this session or Mr Ljubisa Maravic, and that is a political stance and it is a political coalition. As for the relationship with the SRS, gentlemen, dear, we did not enter politics to be the backup parties of the SPS like you, and we did not enter politics, none of these people entered politics to be power and to have privileges. And thank you very much for these privileges, if what was raised by the Democratic Party's MP in a year 37,000 dinars a month, and the MP has been doing 70,000 dinars a month, so twice as much, so what are you eating, gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, which are the expenses, for God's sake? When we talk about culture, you know what, we're constantly attacking Natasa Micic, yesterday the speaker put out for this pay phone who he referred to as "storms," who referred to the people's messengers from the garbage, crowds, marches, dogs, horrible, scary and catastrophic expressions, the dates are listed, the days are mentioned, the hours when it's spoken for this pay phone, and if it's not an unculture, then I don't know what unculture is. Gentlemen of the SPS, after the debacles you had in the presidential election, in the previous election, and remember how much Mr. Bata Zivojinovic received as a presidential candidate, of course you are afraid to go to the presidential elections. Mr. Zivojinovic would get ten times as many votes, because first it's about the great acting size, it's about the gentleman, it's about a man who's very acceptable and from a civilizational point of view and many parties that don't belong to your political option, but you've destroyed him with your support, gentlemen, and that's why you can't go to the presidential elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33834	There's a word, I ask the MPs to die so we can hear who has the right to speak. The word has the People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, a replica of the presentation of MP Srdja Popovic, later? You have applied for a replica of the presentation of MP Srdja Popovic, and now you want to respond to the presentation of MP Bojan Pajtic. So, replica by two basics. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, right of proposing, MP Zarko Obradovic, right to replica and MP Sredoje Mihajlov, right to replication, and the basis for the replica is the direct mention of the parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33835	I would like first of all to point out that Gordana Komic is far better led by the session of the Assembly in this hot situation than was done by the president of the Assembly that we are discussing and that this is how, when the most difficult words are presented, a session can be held without notice and it may be one quality when everyone comes out of the agenda. I can only say that as a member of the DSS, I am pleased that in March 2001, the DSS remained a minority in the DOS. It's just saying that we've already seen who we're dealing with, with those whose government is corrupt, where it's already started to steal and abuse positions, so we're glad that we've already asked for extraordinary elections, because we've seen who we brought to power and who came to power over our backs. It's been a pleasure and now our request for a concentration government is getting more and more right, and we're even more convinced of what we've been doing for the last three years, so the DSS doesn't have a dilemma for it. When you talk about laws, the law on energy has since March of last year been in the assembly procedure, which you did not put on the agenda, how many regular sessions have passed; further, the law on the system, or on environmental protection, was on your request taken off the agenda on 29 November last year; further, the energy law was on the agenda of June this year, so it was removed on your request, at the request of the Government, and is now returned in the same text. If we're talking about laws, it's your responsibility that your laws aren't on the agenda, as well as the promotion agency and all the other agencies you mentioned. These laws are in procedure for at least seven or eight months, so it's your responsibility that these laws are not on the agenda. What you were saying, Mr. Pajtić, you gave more arguments for the resolution of Natasha Micic, which so key laws did not put the system laws on the agenda. Mr. Pajtic, thank you for these arguments, and I would like you to defend Natasa Micic in that way. You did not give an argument for the establishment of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, why it is founded, how it is founded, who breaks the state, why the constitutional order is broken, why the constitutional order is not protected, why you did not give an answer, but therefore you know very well that you are welcoming the unions protesting in the way that Milosevic did not welcome them, dozens of marches are parked in the Federal Assembly and in the area of the Federal Assembly, water cannons have been observed to patrol the streets of Belgrade, thus welcoming trade unions, stamps and water cannons. Unfortunately, both these marines and those cops are far better dressed, dressed and equipped than they were on October 5th. I wouldn't have bullied Mladjan Dinkucci in the field to discuss how the equipment was obtained or not obtained, but it's obvious. The democratic government does not defend itself with the police and does not guard with water cannons. (President: 3.20 minutes. We could see this many times in our short multiparty political history. The Democratic Authority defends itself and guards itself in the Assembly and in the elections. Since you do not have a majority in the Assembly, please go to the elections, but not these presidential, pointless ones, but the right parliamentary elections, as your candidate Micunovic also says he will disband you if he is elected president. Well, he doesn't trust you either. And he with such a assembly and with you sees that he cannot build normal democratic Serbia. At least in that, Mr. Micunovic remained consistent, when he supported Kostunica against you, and now he says, when you support him, he will disband you immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33836	Because of the citizens and citizens of Serbia and because of the frequent arguments about the snap parliamentary elections, and under Article 84(2), I am obliged to repeat the way in which the extraordinary parliamentary elections in our country are discussed. People's MPs get to know that. This is better, because the MPs in their speeches do not show that they know, so it is best to share this information with each other, which I am obliged to do for the public of Serbia. Extraordinary parliamentary elections are called by the President of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the National Assembly, i.e. now v.d. The President of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the National Assembly, on a reasoned proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. (Doljub Stamenkovic: Can the shadow government call the elections?) National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic adds: "Can the government in the shadows?" He can't. Therefore, extraordinary parliamentary elections, which shorten the mandate of MPs of the National Assembly, are prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. A political request made for a pay phone, each MP has a duty to supplement it with facts. The word has a national MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the right to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33837	Dear fellow MPs, for what Mr. Pajtic said about this pay phone, accusing us of getting something we shouldn't have gotten, that it's a huge sum and that I'm receiving 70,000 a month from the Assembly, if I have any family problems when I get home, so my husband asks me where my money is, and I know I didn't bring it, I'll be forced to sue you. You've made one great lie. You think that's affirmative right now to talk. I'm reading today in "The Voice" that you accused us of some kind of fabulous sum of money, whether about eight million a month to take, I don't know how much. It's not the kind of dirty campaign you're running. It doesn't do any good. You may be putting problems into our private life, but fortunately, we get that copy at the end of the year of our total income, because we have to report it to the IRS and none of us have to pay taxes, which means that everything you've said is not true. But that doesn't interest the citizens of Serbia very much. There's 250 of us here. All that stuff you said, if it's not legal, believe me, it's only going to the president of the assembly because she's responsible for it. Please don't defend her that way anymore, it's more and more accusing her. The people are much more interested in those new "pejoi" in which you ride, the blinded "bmv" in which Mrs. Micic and all those escorts, as a composition, go behind her. People are much more interested in those jeeps that are parked from the yard side of this building, because many of you are entering through the boiler room into this building. Believe me, man, whatever function he's in, if he can't walk the streets freely, through his people, he doesn't deserve to live or do the work he does. One day it all goes by, it collapses like a map tower and you have to go out on the street. How? Then comes those psychotic, neurotic states and all the problems that follow. That's why it's advice to everyone in power -- let them think about their behavior, because one day they'll definitely be an opposition. As you can see, we who were once in power are now in opposition very popular, we go free, walk the cities and talk to people. Some probably don't think too well of us. Maybe they're not our supporters. They're not our sympathies. He walks past me, looks, recognizes or doesn't recognize. Those who have affection for us, approach and ask, ask for help - tell them this, tell them, it is hard to live, until you destroy them. I'm just saying one thing-- we're gonna take them down, but with your help, we can't do it without you. It's best if we take them down in the election, just with a pen. We're just asking you out to the polls, to dress up nicely, because it's a solemn moment, when you influence your destiny, you go out nicely in the elections, round up the candidate you trust most. I am convinced, in these elections it will be Tomislav Nikolic. After that victory, you will have parliamentary elections, which is promised by Tomislav Nikolic, the SRS promises you. That will of the people will no longer be destroyed, and believe me, Western democracies will not undo any will of the people. Western democracies are able to respect the will of the people and will respect any power democratically elected in the elections. So, everything you've done, Mrs. Micic, and today you've had an appointment with Mr. Cvetanovic, for compensation worth 300,000 dinars for bodily injuries, and you've got with Mr. Kesjejic soon, and that's 500,000 dinars, you'll have to pay it all off, with interest, and what you took from us by punishing us from this place.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33838	The right to reply, MP Zarko Obradovic, and the MP of the people, Sredoje Mihajlov, a replica to the presentation of the People's MP Bojan Pajtic, then the MP Bojan Pajtic, the replica, to the presentation of the folk's message Gordana Pop-Lazic. The appointed MP, Bratislava Đuric, will have to wait because the replicas have a championship.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33839	Let me say a few words to Mr. Pitiæ. The SPS does not participate in these presidential elections, because these elections are a waste of dust in the eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a big scam, a nice way, formally, to postpone parliamentary elections, because Serbia looms in the poverty and in this misery, which you have led it to. Mr. Zivojinovic's result is the SPS's result, but it is also the result of the SPS's re-election in November 2001 in 18 municipalities of Serbia when the SPS won over 21% of the vote. In December 2002, around 17% of the vote was won in the re-election of five municipalities and more additional elections for the SPS councils. In an additional election for 66 council members in the 33 municipalities of June this year, the SPS received over 18% of the votes. We had an additional election in Priboj and we won 16% of the vote. DOS wasn't supposed to run in Priboy under his name, but he came up with a coalition, I don't know his name. The day before yesterday were the new elections in Turkey, where DOS has been ruling since 2000. The DOS has passed 11%, and of course the SPS is the first, and then the SSJ, for the parliamentary list and for the mayoral candidates. I want to say one more thing, this is interesting when you listen to DS representatives drill into their chests like this and all talk about election, election, and everything works to keep the election from happening. Why didn't you have candidates for the presidential election in the last election? Why you formally supported this former member of yours, and you were essentially working against him. Why your choices failed when you were so successful. Why did your election fail? Is the candidate bad? He was your candidate. How can such a good candidate not pass, and you are a winning game. Why do you now in these elections, when you are so subtle and when everything goes as you imagine, when Serbia sings out of happiness that you exercise power, why don't you have your candidates. Why didn't you take as a candidate this lady you've been praising so much as a common candidate? Why isn't the Prime Minister running for president of Serbia? Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Jovanovic? Why don't you take one of your leaders, go to the polls nice, finish the job, and Serbia gets the president. No, you're doing the same thing just so the elections don't work out so they can buy time so there won't be parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33840	The People's Messenger Sredoje Mihajlov has the word, a replica of the presentation of the People's Messenger Bojan Pajtic. The basis for the replica, the direct mention of the party G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33841	The Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs, say to us in Banat, when two start fighting and there's no end to that argument, then usually the third reasonable one says, let's go to the pretty one, let's stop it. I would warn the current party that is in power to try to behave nicely, it's been very generous, because it's obvious that the path we've been going together and we've signed together for two years, suddenly our paths are falling apart. The way you're doing it right now is not the way we agreed and there's no betrayal at all, but just some social criticism, some objections. So let's hear it, like this. You're saying we're going to bring the socialists to power. And you won't bring him with your behavior and your attitude. So you're not ready to make a deal, you're ready to do it exactly as you think. Imagine that's the right thing to do and that's how it's supposed to be done. So you just won't, you'll bring him in with you, and we could have made a deal. Why couldn't you choose the new president of the assembly? What's the issue here now is that we agree to do it and it's for the common pleasure, together. You're doing it. Secondly, let me tell you gentlemen and remind you again, you've kicked us out of the party and out of the government, and you've received some that didn't belong to us. We didn't take you in. We've been expelled from DOS parties, excluded from DOS, so Mr Dinkic, Mr Labus, Sredoje Mihajlov, DSS, and I don't want all those who went out, etc. So you've declared them out, believing that you can do everything as one party. Now you see that you can't do it alone and now it's hard for you. Let's make a nice deal, I think it's time and I hope there's an emergency election to be called, and we'll agree that it's nice and it'll be a pleasure. You just don't have that power anymore. You had it while we were together, now you don't have it. And those are facts, no offense, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33842	The word has been made by MP Bojan Pajtic, a replica to the presentation of Gordana Pop-Lazic's folk message.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33843	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Mrs. Pop-Lazic is not here because I did not want to discuss something that is exact. Simply, there is information that is official and is published today and in the daily press. So in a year, the expenses of the MPs from the Democratic Party in the head of 450,000, and the SRS 839,947, and that's the only thing I've been talking about. So that's twice as much. Members of the SRS don't work on assembly committees, which is 60% or 70% of the work, and that's all I've ever talked about. I was talking about it because from the ranks of the SRS thesis that we enjoy privileges, we receive twice as much as those who do not enjoy privileges. I don't see what these privileges are about. Another thing, the more difficult that we are in the minority. It is for the first time in history that 16 parties are in the minority compared to two parties. For the first time, someone says it's normal that he's right if he's on one side, and 16 parties on the other side, that he's satisfied in a situation where he's in an absolute minority and he's right, that he's normal. If you are in the majority and have all left us, why did Mr. Rankovic leave you, who is your Minister of Agriculture in the Shadow Government. So that's what this is about. It seems to me that no one is leaving us, but is leaving you. The Socialists are talking about the election and about the election being a dust drop ahead of the people. The election is a constitutional category. Politically, it is not responsible to claim that the elections throw dust in the eyes of the people, elections are something that must be held, it is the constitutional category of the president and, in accordance with the Constitution, it called. Do not tell us about the elections in Ćuprija, tell us about the elections in Svilajnc, in Ćiæevec, in Priboj, in Smederjevo, in Smederjevska Palanca, in Šid, in Stari Pazova, in all elections so far we have won, and in Ćupri we are well placed third and in all subsequent elections we will win and we will win the presidential elections that will be held on 16 November. What is likely, your problem is that according to the statistics, 30% of voters support DOS candidate Dr Dragoljub Micunovic, and probably this brings you into panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33844	The right to a replica, MP Dragan Marsican, was mentioned as the president of the shadow government, not directly mentioned by his name. People's MP, I give you or I don't give you my word, not People's Messenger Bojan Pajtic. After MP Dragan Marsican, MP Zoran Angelkovic, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, whether she is seeking as the right to propose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33845	Just for a little while. Since it has already been mentioned twice and is not responsible, Mr. Rankovic has deceived the Democratic Party. If he said he was a member of the government in the shadows, then he lied to you. He's long gone. Unfortunately, I must tell you that this is the case, and perhaps this is the reason for his dissatisfaction and the transition to the Democratic Party. We don't have a problem with them leaving, so feel free to do whatever you think you can with it. As far as the majority are concerned, there is obviously one problem in seeing and discussing the majority. Most of it, of course, should not be repeated, and I guess it's not controversial, it determines in the elections. Most when it comes to citizens' support. There's no other way. It can't be helped either by "Strategkink Marketing", or by any other firm. We'll determine most of it in the election. When, therefore, we talk about the number of citizens who support certain political options, if you talk about the number of parties and the majority in DOS, then there really is a big problem. You said who's normal then, if you had 16 parties on one side and only two on the other. And not to mention now how hard it would be for everyone to remember the name of all those 16 parties. When you say who's normal, then I'll give you one completely, I think a clear picture. Who's normal at the clinic if you have 16 mental patients on one side and two doctors on the other? You can't talk about normality. You can't vote for individual parties, I'm sorry, but these are your topics. Of course, it's an honor. So you can't talk about most of it that way. Most of them are determined by the election. You cannot talk at least about normality, because you are practically accusing Serbian citizens that, voting for individual political parties, they are not in good conscience. You must respect, and this is a subject which is also related to the president of this assembly, all parties as much as the citizens of that party respect, expressing their views on them in the elections and no other way. You can disagree with someone's policy, you can think of someone's policy as wrong, you can argue with it, you can't talk about it, but you can't talk about that some party isn't normal or you can't talk about some parties supporting some abnormal people. It is simply something that is completely contrary to all the principles on which the democratic order rests. Until you realize that, you will have a problem with your own political position, you will have a problem in future with the fact that citizens of Serbia such a party, non-democratic parties, parties that, despite the will of the citizens, are trying to survive in power, to those who jury, as the trade unions do today, perform police cordones... (President: three minutes and 12 seconds. )......................................................................................................... such parties Serbia's citizens simply won't. That's a fact. Let these things end in the only possible democratic way -- putting before citizens and determining the will of citizens in relation to parties representing different political options. Nothing else is asked of you but that you respect the will of the citizens, and that means that for you to get off the force, that's something that's your problem, but it can't become a problem of the state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33846	The fact works, and because of the repeated relationship between anyone today announced and probably already during the Union of Independent Unions protest, I am obliged to give the following notice to all peoples and the public of Serbia. Yesterday I held a meeting with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, of all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, because of the public demand of the Independent Unions to be accepted by the president of the parliamentary groups. In agreement, the proposal I had was to receive them all and listen to their demands, because I believe it is the obligation of this institution, so it is an agreement that the Independent Unions, with their representatives, will speak to each other individually with the MP groups in the National Assembly. It's the rule of institutions. So, if we mention the protests that unions are entitled to, we should also mention the response of the National Assembly's institution to the union's announced protests. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic - the right to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33847	Allow me, Madam Chairman, to say something about what you just said, and then I will return to the subject of our agenda. That's why I went out for a pay phone, to get all the MPs back on the agenda. Now you've said you've spoken to the presidents of all the parliamentary groups. The president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group did not talk to you on this issue, because he was expelled from the assembly session, could not participate in the work of the Assembly and could not come to talk to you, which does not mean that we will not talk to representatives of the union if Tomislav Nikolic is in Belgrade today, since we have a rally in Bora tomorrow, again at 1700 hours, in Kragujevac, the day after tomorrow in Zajecar. But if you've made a schedule and if that schedule can fit into the time planned in advance, we'll be happy to talk to the union representatives. However, I have come to the floor for the word that the respected colleagues have returned to the agenda, which is a proposal to dismiss the president of the National Assembly and to call on those who accuse Serbian radicals of doing something or that they have obtained for themselves something that, by law, regulation or by the approval of the National Assembly president, does not belong to them, let all that they have to give to the deputy public prosecutors, and the government appoints deputy public prosecutors, according to that law that you have passed, so let them do their job. No one gets involved in their business. We are ready to answer for anything we have done or obtained against the law. But this is a violation of the Constitution by the president of the National Assembly. I'd like to put you back on that. If you can defend that thesis, please step out, DOS representatives, defend that the thesis that Natasha Micic could have imposed an emergency on the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and that it is in accordance with the Constitution. I don't want to go back to that moment that we didn't even have a government that could have suggested it, but if you agree that we had a government, the state of emergency could have been introduced only to the part of the territory. That part of the territory that was threatened and perhaps on which an emergency was to be introduced is the space around the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the space around Schiller, or the space around the Democratic Party, or the space around some dosmania. A state of emergency could be introduced there, and in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, without entering federal laws that treat it, Natasa Micic could not impose an emergency. This is one of the very important arguments, which is why we're asking for the President's discharge. None of you have touched that topic, nor has he tried to defend the thesis that, possibly, Natasa Micic has not broken the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33848	The word has the People's MP Zoran Adjelkovic - a replica to the presentation of MP Bojan Pajtic. Right to replication directly mentioning the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33849	First, I'd like to congratulate the new socialists because they've become members of the Socialist International. I hope you'll finally start implementing the social justice program, because then there won't be any workers on the street. [[Applause]] So far, you've been running a right-wing program, and you want to be part of a socialist. I, of course, wish you success in that. Mr. Sredoje spoke of who would bring the Socialists to power. Now they're accusing each other of G-17 plus and DS of who will lead us to power. Believe me, we have no idea, nor would we love, nor would we want you to bring us to power in any way. We will be brought to power by the people and citizens of Serbia. They're the only ones we take care of. When it comes to elections, it is true that two-thirds of Serbian citizens want elections. [[Applause]] It's like when someone's looking for food, asking for something to eat because they're hungry, and you say the man's hungry, let's give him something to eat and give him water. That's how you gave the presidential election. Serbian citizens want elections, they just don't want presidential elections, they want parliamentary elections. It's not about the election wanting the Socialists. The elections will be made by the citizens of Serbia. Look at any research, you can see it there. If you care so much about the presidential election, why'd you wait nine months? Why are you waiting nine months to call the election? This is one of the reasons why Natasha should be replaced - because she did not call the election in accordance with the law, in time, but waited nine months, so now she gives the water to Serbian citizens instead of food. Citizens want food, elections, parliamentary elections, not presidential elections. Where did you find Micunovic for the presidential candidate? Don't let me remind you of what your party leaders were saying about Micunovic's candidacy just a few months ago, as well as his desire to be a presidential candidate. I won't talk about it anymore, because of some people who can't answer now, what they thought of Micunovic as a presidential candidate. Finally, as far as these costs are concerned, I would like to say to the public, that there would be no convincing of how much the parliamentary group has spent, made the expenses in the Assembly, we would do a listing and to assign the Assembly secretariat to do for each MP what the cost of this state is, on all grounds: how many foreign exchanges he has taken, on the basis of which he goes abroad, whether he is going abroad to make a decision on how much he has charged travel expenses and fuel, official cars, in the municipality, the city, the province, the Republic and the Government, and not only in this assembly, what are the costs for using bodyguards, what is the number of cars they use. When we get that, for every MP, we'll see what the cost of the state is, not the Parliament. Of course, opposition MPs are mainly the cost of the Assembly, because they are not in the government advisers, they do not have cars, etc. The costs of you, MPs of power, are the costs of government, municipalities, cities, etc. That thing's completely clear. So, make that list of expenses and let's stop bidding as much as it costs this assembly. You will see that MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia are the cheapest in economic terms, cost the lowest. But that's your reverse proportion. The most valuable, the most expensive are on the market, the most citizens want them, and in fact the least cost the Serbian Parliament. So, please, let's see that, and when we see that, then we'll figure out where who is who.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33850	Have any of the people's messengers reported for replication? The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić, right on the line. Basically, mentioning by name in the presentations of several MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33851	Dear fellow Members, as you have heard today, I have been mentioned twice in the presentations of honourable fellow Members. Since yesterday in my presentation I've made some clear and some things about my name on this agenda point, I'd just like to say today in this replica not so much about the replica, as I'd like to clarify some facts and some things again. Today and these days, there's a lot of talk about socialists. The mention of the Socialists in a negative sense really doesn't make sense anymore, because the Socialists you're talking about left the SPS on October 6th. Here are those who have remained in continuity since 1990, attached to the SPS policy, and those who left the SPS have crossed, among other things, into some DOS members and now would be publicly or out of the way to re-determine our fates. Secondly, here today from this pay phone, today and yesterday, they mention travel expenses and mention certain things that are not related to this topic of the agenda. Yesterday, Mrs Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly, presented in her presentation that over 600 sessions were held in the past period, if I am not mistaken, the Assembly, committees, parliamentary clubs and so on. I am therefore convinced that no MP sitting in this House has taken any of what belongs to him according to the decision of the Administrative Committee that has been made. Many pains the fact that MPs from Kosovo and Metohija are taking their travel expenses. Why doesn't everyone wonder how MPs from Kosovo and Metohija live in conditions in Kosovo and Metohija? I must say that distinguished colleagues Ljubomir Kragovic, Dragisa Djokovic, Vuko Antonijevic, Marko Jaksic and I must cross, when we come to these assembly sessions, 15km of territory that is ethnically clean on the right side of the road and where there is no Serbian head to Albania, and that a respected colleague, Sreten Mitrovic, must cross a whole 50km of ethnically pure territory, in which there is lawlessness and the main word of terrorists and criminals released from prison in Serbia. Each one of us would trade for comforts in which many of you live here in Belgrade or nearby, but that doesn't occur to us, because in our heart, a breast is more important than anything and so don't let us discuss it much, because it's really pointless. I forgot to mention an MP from Kosovo and Metohija to Mrs. Jelena Maslovar, who certainly wants to return to Pec, but it is a question of whether they will have conditions for such a thing. That's what we need to discuss because it's a national and state interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33852	The president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33853	Madam Chairman, I am using the right of replica to present the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic and to introduce a state of emergency. Yes, it is true that I have imposed a state of emergency and I think it was the only possible and only correct solution in a situation where the prime minister was killed in one country. Certainly much better than the proposal to make a concentration government with you and with the Socialists. That's the first one. Secondly, the Constitutional Court has never disputed such a decision. Furthermore, that state of emergency, you say that according to the Constitution, and you are right, could be introduced to the part of Serbia's territory. That's right. It was not introduced in Kosovo, or you may think Kosovo is not part of Serbia. Third, that decision was welcomed by the whole of Europe, because to remind you gentlemen, on 3 April, during the duration of the emergency, we were admitted to the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33854	The word has a folk MP, Bratislav Đuric. Replica. National MP Dejan Mihajlov is looking for a replica based on the mention of the concentration government. It is now a very broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, you will have opportunities for replicas. National MP Bratislava Djuric, the name of the MP mentioned an hour and 15 minutes ago. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33855	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you who talk about the union have never worked in your life and you don't know what the union is. I'll try, unlike the others, to be exclusively on the agenda. So today is the agenda of a group of Members of Parliament's resolution initiatives, namely the shift of Parliament Speaker Mrs Natasa Micic. Of course, the Labour Party of Serbia and I, as its representative in this House, are against such initiatives and will vote against such an initiative. Why? I'll be very brief, because you want the debate to end as quickly as possible, and I'm waiting an hour and a half as a second speaker to come to order. Why? Here are only four important points of view from the proposal. It is said that Mrs. Micic worked against the constitution and violated the Constitution. Who's to say that? Constitutional court? Never. Completely flat and completely unfounded. Those who wish to have a legal state and to resolve system institutions in their own domain shall be entitled to decide whether or not the Constitution is violated on behalf of the Constitutional Court. That also applies to the law. The third essential item in the motion for resolution is the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You see, in part, I agree that the President of the Assembly has not always fully respected the Rules of Procedure. I can agree there, because if she had respected the Rules of Procedure, as it says in the Rules of Procedure, I doubt any session could go any further than the establishment of the agenda, how MPs, one part of the MPs, what they were doing, what they were doing in this assembly. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: When? When? Well, let's just say when you were watering, when Mr. Toma Nikolic slapped an MP, when you were unconscious, when you were insulting, cursing, and I don't know what else you were doing. Therefore, if she had respected the Rules of Procedure as it says in the Rules of Procedure, I don't think we would have, I don't know, what, 200 or 300 days of the session, but I believe it would be more than two or three days. I can agree with that, but, of course, Madam President was more tolerant than it says in the Rules of Procedure. The fourth allegation, which is also potential, is that there have been voice thefts, that some votes have seen votes stolen. Well, gentlemen, did Mrs. Natasa Micic steal votes? If that's what it was, then one of us did it. So he's not a thief, Mrs. Natasa Micic, but a thief, if someone was stealing votes, one of us. Is she a cop? You know, a group of MPs tried to make this home a total circus. In part, she managed to make the people disgusted, and in part she succeeded when a famous Nishlia, a politician, said a few days ago that they were transferring congregations not to listen but to observe, because one part of the MPs was only to observe; he was absolutely right. In the end, Mrs. Micic, the Labour Party and I as its MP give you full support. Let this go. The dog barks, the wind carries.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33856	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, a replica of the presentation of the National MP Bratislava Đuric, the basis for the replica - mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this Blair representative of your laborers, Đuric, as it is called, again one Nis character who appears behind the pay phone, and mostly three years after he doesn't talk about the agenda points, and what he would most have to account for before the National Assembly and when his favorite, Natasa Micic, is chaired, and when he is behind the presidency of Gordan Komic or anyone else. Mr. Đurić, if you had a little cheek and consideration, you would not have particularly dared today to go out for a pay phone, because today these people who come to caravans from Kragujevac, from all over Serbia, are protesting against such economic and social policies by the Government of Serbia, among other things, are protesting against you personally and Dragan Milovanovic, your mentor, minister, your trade unionman, who has never worked in the field, and the minister is for work and employment. Mr. Milovanovic, by the way, made a three-story villa during his ministerial term, as the newspapers write, and read the entire Serbian public. During the assembly debate, when we talk about how to hire people who got his, Djelic and Vlahovic's will to cancel from the flag and all other factories, he here as a ficfir is smiling, using a new mobile phone, photographing MPs, and when MPs finish the speech, which was in my case, he says - look how beautiful the pictures are. Who cares? People are interested in how they're going to survive and how they're going to get you out of power. You, as probably another one of the failed trade unions, just like your Minister Milovanovic, are not only not going to have more opportunities to go out for this pay phone, but I am telling you the same thing, as Mrs. Micic, your laborist, phantom party of course does not exist, as well as its Civilian Union, on paper alone, you will no longer be able to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And today you take care of where you are going and how you will walk in the streets of Belgrade, the road to Nis is far away, the unions everywhere along the road, so what my Sumadinians say - to whom the two of whom are captives, to Milovanovic and to you. You know, when Milovanovic came to Kragujevac there were little of his two poles, but now they've been working rods all over Serbia, it's hard for you and your thief Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33858	I ask the MPs that in an argument, no matter how broad, they avoid challenging any MP's right to speak for a pay phone. This means that everything can be disputed in parliament, except for the right of the MP elected on the list, coalition or having a personal mandate to speak. It wasn't once used as an argument, and I can only ask you not to use that argument. National MP Verica Radeta, a replica of the presentation of MP Bratislava Đuric, the authorised representative, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33859	I think that the conditions have just come into play, Mrs. Komic, that after this debate, you should put a motion to vote for a vote of no confidence, namely Mrs. Natasa Micic's resolution, given that he had just said that the Labour Party supports it, I guess most are no longer disputed. As for the gentleman from the Labour Party representing Minister Milovanovic here, it would be nice to go to the National Assembly alone, I suppose, there are representatives of the basic unions, it would be very interesting to explain to them which mortgage bank Mr. Milovanovic was credited with, and in what way, to build a house on the carlovacka street in Zemun. When I saw her the other day, I couldn't believe that there was such a building, and Mr. Milovanovic said he wouldn't say which bank it was so he wouldn't advertise it. I am telling you, Mr. and the public of Serbia, that Mr. Milovanovic, or any Serbian citizen, cannot get a mortgage on a building facility. So there's another facility he pawned as a mortgage to get this mortgage loan. When the debate on the government comes, you will see here, behind this speaker, gentlemen, a lot of evidence about what we read about Mr. Milovanovic in the below daily reading about Mr. Milovanovic. You will also see a photocopy of the solution to the establishment of a private company, co-ownership of a private company signed by Mr. Goran Kljajevic, the president of the Trade Court by the choice of Mr. Vladan Batic. A lot will be heard here, but since it is not the topic of the Serbian government's agenda, but the president of the assembly, here's another opportunity to call on Mrs. Comic to put this vote after this debate, respecting the Rules of Procedure, and now she has security because the laborers are against resolution. I propose that after the debate, which is obviously near the end, a motion to resolve Natasha Micic's role as Parliament's president is put on the agenda, because if this is not done, it will really not be possible to work in this parliament. It is against the logic of common sense that someone whose function has been discussed here for four or five days and who has been said all that has been said, that someone can calmly testify that he sits behind a pay phone, or the chair of the president of the National Assembly, and that he probably looks at the opportunity when some MP, who talked about it, will talk about what she didn't want to hear, but the public of Serbia is, when he's going to... (President: Three minutes and 20 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Eliminates from work, one warning, another warning, exclusion, in order to ensure that it is transitory in this National Assembly, because it is the only way to ensure transitivity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33860	People's MPs, without doubting that this is a speech slip, can't put it to the vote to put the debate on the agenda, because it's on the agenda. Please consult a stenogram before passing. So the MP said to put on the agenda a debate on the resolution of the president of the National Assembly. I guess it's a speech slip, that's what I said in the introduction. But until you say the words they are yours, when you say them, they rule over you. The People's MP, Dejan Michael, is looking for a replica. The basis for the replica, the mention of the concentration government. The widest possible interpretation of the right to replica, but okay. People's MP, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33861	The truth is, the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed to form a concentration government, to preserve the state and deal with organised crime, but not selectively, as it was during Sablje. The results will be seen during the trial of charges of assassination of Zoran Djindjic, but will be dealt with with with with all organised crime and will also be seen in those statements. But when we talk only about the concentration government, I would remind the MPs here that the government's proposal was first mentioned in a press statement after 15.00 hours on March 12th just one high-ranking official, one of the main ideologists of the GSS, Vojin Dimitrijevic, and it seems to me that was in the statement for RT B92. I have that statement upstairs at my office, and if necessary, I'll bring it in, so he mentioned the concentration government first, and during the evening it was suggested by the Democratic Party of Serbia, so if anyone else has to make a comment, you can refer it to Voija Dimitrijevic, but if you don't, I'll be happy to deliver it to you, so obviously you may not be in any good communication with him, but that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33862	Replication rights, MP Mirko Rosic, the GSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33863	It is possible that Mr Dimitrijevic, as a highly experienced political analyst, included such an opportunity in a statement he made, as you said, for B92. What's the point, it's that you obviously listened to one of the opportunities stated by Mr Dimitrijevic, and then suggested it as your proposal and as your political position. That may be good, and it is bad that you did not listen to the GSS proposal when it comes to other political attitudes, and I call on you to continue to listen well to what the GSS people say and to accept their proposals more often, I think it would be better for both you and the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33864	The word has the last registered speaker, MP Milos Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before any claim arises that we may not have met at this pay phone often enough, so let me tell you, we haven't met at this pay phone often enough because we wanted to work, not to spend time on salads of words that are endlessly repeated in circles these days. But I must tell you that, by reading the remarks on the so far work of Madam President Natasa Micic, I am now even more strongly convinced that these remarks do not have any basis in reality. Mrs. Micic is not only resented that she violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, but also the law and finally the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not strange to me, first of all, because it comes from a group of proposings who, for example, remember in their long parliamentary practice as presidents of the assembly, I mean Bakocevic, Lilić, Tomic, Unkovic and the like. Do you have them in mind when you attack Natasa Micic, now, gentlemen of the promoters, for no reason? You remember how they ran the congregation and you remember how they kicked out the MPs and ended the sessions before they practically even started. If you regret them, I'm not surprised either. However, according to them, Natasa Micic did not violate the Constitution or the laws or the Rules of Procedure. This, in the end, confirms the current course of this groundless debate quite clearly. As for the trade charges, ladies and gentlemen, here's a fine example. Today's Dnevnik, a New Sad daily, publishes a public call G17 plus for the GSS crossing to G17 plus. Ladies and gentlemen, the G17 plus directs a public call to members of the newly-soldic GSS organization to collectively move to G17 plus. One notice for all of you, Mr. Merchants, don't look forward to it. GSS members in Novi Sad are persons whose quality and human and civic values define as more than desirable in any democratically defined party, yet they are members of the GSS and are not for sale. So I ask you, gentlemen traders, to save yourself time and money and not to announce tenders, not to call tenders for members of the GSS, especially in Novi Sad, we are not for sale. Let's look at one of the essential problems that bothers the promoter, and that's a warning statement. I don't know why I remembered my health by looking at the whole situation, probably because Zarko Obradovic of the Socialist Party of Serbia reminded me that for more than 15 years this country has not invested a single dinar in the ongoing maintenance of health institutions facilities. Of course, that you humiliated health care and that you humiliated healthcare workers during all these 25 years, even more, with small wages, with inadequate working conditions and with inability, or with lack of equipment, that's your problem. I'll tell you something, incompetent Minister Obren Joksimovic, who came after the five-octobaric changes in this government, and then, fortunately, left, did nothing to change it, continued the tradition of your ministers Leposava Milicevic and Mr. Bojic. As for Tomica Milosavljevic, he did not have a chance to take any other step in the short time period, but still, to a patient who has been suffering from a severe illness for 20 years, and health care in this country is suffering, it takes time and can't get better overnight. The same situation is with Serbia today. Now to return, again to health, to the definition of the World Health Organization, which defines health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being; the violation of any of these categories, therefore, physical, mental or social, leads to a health disorder, or disease. I'm sure you won't mind if I pull the parallel between breaking the standards of conduct in the Assembly and disrupting your health, don't smile, I didn't say which category you're disrupting by your behavior. Surely you can't argue that we MPs and citizens who follow the broadcast have seen different cultural manifestations in this assembly, beginning with unequivocal hate speech and yesterday you have had the opportunity to hear from other MPs, and even today, taxed from the stenographic notes, and then through water sports in small vessels, to a practical demonstration of wrestling skills. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you need in such a situation? Of course, a cure. And the cure for what hasn't been taken from home, which hasn't come from small legs, and not even later in school, is, you know what it is -- it's a civil education; it's, at least now that you're in Parliament's benches, it's nothing but an adequate punishment. Then who will prescribe your prescription, if not the President of Parliament. Recently, one acquaintance reminded me of something that I had long forgotten, which is the fact that conditions must be ensured that every person has and has his human rights, even those who do wrong. But those who do wrong must have at least one right, gentlemen, and that is the right to punishment. Then why do you object to giving the reminders to Natasa Micic, whose endless patience and well-meaning you finally gain the knowledge of parliamentary behaviour in line with the Rules of Procedure. I'm sure Natasa Micic, if he didn't strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure, would have to punish you both more severely and more often, but she doesn't. And why isn't it working? Because he respects the Rules of Procedure and adheres to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, excuse me, what an association, the Serbian Radical Party, Mrs Pop-Lazic, said yesterday that voters at their meetings are shouting when they hear the name Natasa Micicic. The esteemed Mrs. Pop-Lazic, they don't scream, animals scream, people can scream at the mitts, but they don't scream. Don't insult your voters and don't let me correct such a mistake. I remind you that on the first day of this debate, which was long ago, Mrs. Micic said in her address that she was clearly convinced that the voters who voted for you, thanks to which you are sitting in these benches, gentlemen of the promoters, were normal and ordinary people. Like all other ordinary and normal people, they want prosperity, economic prosperity, security for their family and for themselves, as we finally do. I'm sure it's true. But the fact that you, gentlemen, have confused with the mind of this fundamental value of civil society, you can together hand in hand with your coalition partners in the past ten years, who have led you hand in hand, so in the last decade, in all wars, in isolation, in hatred, which you will have to explain again in the elections, there will be elections, you will have to explain to your voters again, and with you and those who later joined you in that round. It's your common face in parliament, you can't argue. As far as the GSS is concerned, it is perfectly natural for us that you Serbian radicals against the president of the Natasa Micic Assembly. I'd be very worried if you'd be praising her by any chance. God forbid, that would be a very serious warning for the GSS and a very serious sign. Why? Because it resembles that other Serbia: modern, smart, beautiful, fair, European worldly. As far as you gentlemen are concerned, I am increasingly inclined to trust citizens who think you are part of a part of a historic incident, one aberration in the chromosomal chain of history, who was defeated on October 5th. But in the future, I am sure already in the presidential elections, I vote for presidential candidate Dragoljub Micunovic, and because Serbian citizens and citizens clearly recognise what they want: modern, democratic and advanced Serbia, Serbia in Europe, and the face of that Serbia is not you, Mrs Jovanovic, the face of Serbia and Mrs Pop-Lazic, and your new uninformed coalition-programme partners, the face of that Serbia is Natasa Micic, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33866	Replica, MP Zarko Obradovic, and national MP Natasa Jovanovic. The basis for the replica: the mention of the party and the direct mention of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33867	This is very interesting. If these big parolees were to be set to go to the polls and get citizens' trust, then Serbia would sing instead of crying or screaming, thanks to DOS and their coalition partners. One bus, and it's wristy, it's enough for them, but that's why they have a function, don't ask. It is not true that it was not invested in healthcare during the time the Socialists exercised power at the republican level. All you have to do is count and look at hospitals that are arranged, health homes that have been built or medical devices that have been purchased. All were able to be treated in the conditions that existed, and these conditions were: sanctions since 1992, refugees, almost a million people in Serbia, bombing 78 days and nights, and that, unfortunately, by your employers and patrons from abroad. But now in 2003, DOS has been in power for three years and now accounts are being submitted. Bills are submitted for what has not been done, which you would like elegantly to transfer to some time before. The situation in all areas of health care and health insurance has been drastically deteriorated, although according to official statistics, healthcare funds have been increased four times over the past three years, from 265 million to a billion zero-five euros, and a legitimate question has been raised in whose pockets the money has ended. Voices from the hall: The Boyics. ) Boyic is not now, but DOS and their small partners who like to breast-feed. The basic free medical care, the introduction of participation, payment of health services has been abolished. Investments in equipment and personnel in health care are almost gone, and therefore neither treatment, so citizens are forced to allocate large amounts of money to provide health services by private offices. The prices of drugs are enormously increased, especially for critical and severe diseases. In the drug trade and equipment, corruption is growing, and in some areas crime is at work and organised. Health care is becoming a luxury for most Serbian citizens. Health reform, which is announced, implies the dismissal of two-thirds of employees and privatisation, which will make the health situation worse and even more devastating for the citizens. Contrary to the Company Act, members of DOS - Government officials, they are members of many boards of directors of health institutions and pharmaceutical companies, for which they receive large financial fees. All the reforms of the DOS's health have been reduced to people's layoffs, not by SPS members, but by people who have also had a profession, a calling and knowledge to bring in DOS listeners. I expected that someone, having been so keenly defending Ms. Micic, would answer one simple question: why would Mrs. Micic hide the theft in Parliament for two months and not allow us to get the ballot from the vote, and we submitted a request? Why don't two months he let the Secretary of the Assembly deliver the list, and then we can open the story of whether or not there was a theft? (President: three minutes. () When a person prevents the official document from obtaining a parliamentary group, what he has the right to do by the Rules of Procedure, he is an accomplice in theft.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33868	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, a replica to the presentation of the National MP Milos Lučić. The basis for the replica: direct mention by name.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33869	Mrs. Komic, thank you for giving me the opportunity to find out what the gentleman is called, because that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a well-known quiz "Do you want to become a millionaire" for three million dinars no citizen in Serbia could remember, not even to know what the gentleman's name is, even though you'll tell me it's a parliamentary right, but come on, at the end of the term of all the members, how many of them there are from that van - the GSS, let the gentleman come out once. Sir, the face of a more beautiful Serbia is seen every day on mythinses all over Serbia. When I turn to my Kragujevci tomorrow at 17.00 p.m., in the Square of the Cross, at the pre-election rally of the SRS, people will not praise Mrs. Micic. You heard wrong. I told you a few days ago, speaking to her personally, that the politeness, fine conduct and culture that every Serbian radical has does not allow me to speak what people in the performance of their anger and anger towards DOS speak about Mrs. Micicic. In addition, citizens will say this on November 16th, by going out to the elections, when they will finally have the opportunity to win the DOS and to know that from 17th morning, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as president of Serbia, will be on Andric's wedding, across the street, in the presidency building, in a decent, dignified and homely manner to represent the Republic of Serbia, because it could not have been Mrs Micic all these months, abused the role of acting as president of the Republic. As for you, sir, you try at the local level, within that organization of yours that has more sectarian character - GSS, to act in your New Sad. I don't think success is guaranteed to you despite such pronounced anti-Serbs, as Mr Dimitrijevic and all those representing your Civilian Union, who are not only prominent analysts, as has been said here earlier, but are the worst that has appeared on the Serbian political scene. More could promote their views in one of the neighbouring former Yugoslav republics and would accept them better than the entire Serbian people would do here. What citizens think of you, what they think of your Natasa Micic, will show in the 16th elections, will show in the extraordinary parliamentary elections. Regardless of what you, sir, are probably one of Broz's communist students' representatives, you throw so rudely at me, you've done this before when Mrs Pop-Lazic was, I'm sorry that you won't be an MP in the future, when she'll probably be chaired by a Serbian radical or a radical, to learn good manners and to see what parliamentary democracy is, what MPs are and what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should look like.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33870	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Dejan Mihajlov, a replica of the party's mention, indirectly, through Minister and member Obren Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33871	Obren Joksimovic served as minister for six months. What he's been doing, we'll see when you're gone and there's a report on the minister who did what. I wouldn't go into it, no matter what, when he resigned, you tried to set him up with things. You didn't make it, like any other DSS member. It speaks more about you and your relationship to the state and institutions. What I'm saying is that at this point, water cannons and police cordons are blocking unionists walking the streets of this city and preventing them from coming. It's no lie, I'm inviting citizens to come out on the street and see if there's any police on the street or who's right. Are we right about who we say that or are you saying it's not true? Officers with shields, in black uniforms, under full equipment, with water cannons, block and guard your "democratic" authority, elected by citizens, who has full support and full legitimacy to exercise that authority. That's not how power is kept. We know how those who were in power did so. We'll all go out, and we'll see, or we'll see from the window, and we'll see who's guarding the government and whether or not there's police and water cannons. It is a real picture and an opportunity to defend not only the government in this assembly, but also in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33872	Replica. National MP Bojan Pajtic, a replica of the presentation of MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33873	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unions and their representatives, of course, always have an open invitation to come to Parliament and talk to us. Mr. Michael knows it well. He attended yesterday's meeting, which was called by Mrs Comic and where, as head of Parliament clubs, we agreed on when we would receive representatives of the union. My colleague Michael had an idea for the DSS to do it alone. I don't mind, though the trade unions claim that they are much more tied to the left parties than to the right parties, but it is certain that they should be able to talk to any MP or head of the parliamentary club and the official they want to talk to. As for Mr Joksimovic, the consequences of his work in health and the consequences of his refusal to remove immunity to Mr Bojic, the previous health minister, speak very well in favour of what Mr Obren Joksimovic was in the role of and in the period when he was minister and also in relation to the period that preceded him. A similar role is played by Mr. Kostunica in the military and police. We're not going back to that. Let's go back to what the local elections are, and we've heard on several occasions what statistics are and what the results of the local elections are. The DS also won in Svilajnc, Cicevic, Priboj, Palanca, Šid, Stari Pazova, and the DSS results in Priboj were 9.08%, and in Ćicevec 5%, in Ćuprija 4.28%, etc. It speaks very well of who the elections are and who they don't, it says very well in favour of our assessment that our presidential candidate is going to be professor. Dragoljub Micunovic won the presidential election.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33874	The mention of New Serbia's party, New Serbia's president, Zoran Cirkovic, was mentioned in the presentation of MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33875	In fact, ma'am, you've promoted a fundamental principle of law on replication, so using this principle of origin, and often withdrawing the name of Priboja and the last election, I give full information: the DS in Priboj won three seats in the assembly, in the local assembly there are three mandates, the DSS has five mandates, New Serbia has two mandates, the SPO has four mandates, the Civil Union has three mandates, but you are in the Democratic Party. Therefore, you have not won power. In total, of the 41 terms, you have four mandates, with a total of 41 mandates, you have nine mandates. The number of votes you won is about 17%. Thus, at 17% in Serbia, 18% cannot be ruled. However, it seems to you that it can, but I assure you that this is not enough to rule Serbia. I don't know what methods you're going to use yet, but about this one, there's no way through. By the way, I failed to say, it must be admitted, the SPS won eight terms. Therefore, it is a fact and it cannot be challenged. Everything can be challenged, except for the number, and the number is the fact, that's what's true. On the other hand, we hear it's on its way to forming some local coalition, but these things go pretty stupid. As things stand for now, temporary measures are being reintroduced. I know it suits the yellow alliance, because they're used to ruling without a choice, because before that, they had a fair rule. So far, it has not been a constituent session of the local congregation. It has not yet been established and the mandates of the committee have not yet been verified, and as things stand, you will rule without parliamentary support, or you will have a kind of local cohabitation, if possible. Well, truth be told, that's a fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33876	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Do you want the closing word? National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, right to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, allow me, on behalf of the promoter, a group of 54 MPs of the SRS, the SPS and the SNS, to briefly recapitulate what is the result of this debate, which was led several days in connection with an initiative to resolve the president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, took place during which he was undesirable to us promoters. Many MPs have dealt with a subject that is not on the agenda. Probably, warming up for this next topic and waiting for Zoran Zivkovic to return from his official visit to Brazil's Lul da Silva, who has only a primary school, but was voted for by 38 million citizens, so he has to respect it and he needs to talk to him. For Zoran Zivkovic, who finished that correspondence school somewhere in Veles, I don't know if 300,000 citizens would vote right now. So, as the claims and attempts of some DOS MPs who, in order to defend the character and work of Natasha Micic, went out for this pay phone, I only remembered a few of her merits, which is that she is responsible for the gasification of Novi Sad, cleaning the Danube at Novi Sad, transferring congregation via the Internet, for environmental waste in Nis, and that's what I could positively record. As for her GSS colleagues, who have tried to explain that she has used her powers under the Constitution and the law, this party that is otherwise known as the party's van, and I hear these days, is selling vans because it has lost its passengers, it is unsuitable for parliamentary democracy and for participation in parliamentary life, because the party has proposed a lustration law. So much for the political party that the president of the National Assembly belongs to. In the debate, we have proved that, unfortunately, the President of the Assembly does not have those qualities that should be adorned, which is that it is impartial, objective and just and, of course, is bound to respect the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. Although there are several hundred officers standing outside the National Assembly under full military equipment, and for that someone from the National Assembly had to give orders, and these water cannons, we, the MPs, feel very uncomfortable about what someone thinks we need the police to protect us from the unions. Indeed, I strongly protest in the name of, I suppose, all the MPs, because if we invited them to the negotiations, I guess we invited them as good hosts to come in and talk to them, and imagine what the press is for the guest to come, and you let the wolf on it at the gate. That's not welcome. So please, if anyone still has any authority here, I see that Mrs. Comic is already negotiating on behalf of Mrs. Natasha Micic, although she is still in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that a warrant is issued for these officers to move ahead of the National Assembly, we can go to the union without any defence. It was just a little dyspression. So, a large number of discussions proved and showed that the debate on Natasa Micic was necessary, that she was late and that it was not our whim, but rather forced us, that this esteemed home would not be in a position to demonstrate non-democratic forms of outcast behaviour, supported by vulgar voting in an unethical and immoral, unconstitutional and illegal form of fighting for the parliamentary majority and some MPs. The National Assembly would never become the mere pendant of the uncontrollable rule of the government in parliament. This assembly would not be the scene of ministers' self-gratification and "cooperation measures" by Natasha Micic. At her sessions, those citizens who are not MPs would never vote. The Assembly would, most of all, preserve its dignity, work in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure and would remain, of course, the highest form of legislative authority. Now, at the very end of the debate, this is otherwise the opinion of the applicant, it became more than clear that the executive authority pushed the Assembly to the periphery of social events and reduced it to the Parliament on paper, which was pierced by the Burgians from the rest of the DOS. Since the word assassination has been mentioned very often in this debate, may I also be allowed to say that the executive authority has executed the assassination of the assembly system and democratic forms of congregation work. A large number of MPs have argued the senselessness of this interaction, but also the consequences that almost all Serbian citizens feel, of course, except for those who, by government or by means of it, have become rich overnight robbing anything that can be robbed. The debate has developed almost an endless grudge against Natasa Micic. The promoter of this point accepts all the arguments of that content that he proved and proved that Natasa Micic did not exercise the role of Parliament president in accordance with the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure, that she demonstrated unauthorized affections, destruction and emotional equilibration. Natasa Micic, with her behaviour, failed to turn the regular work of the Assembly into unacceptable behaviours of mediocrity and fools. We must agree that it was not just a woman's cap, but -- and we heard it from the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Zivkovic -- and the folklore of the political task of destruction of the multi-party and democratic system. At the end of this debate, we cannot absorb those emotional and political excursions of individual debates, which were aimed at, above all, showing a false picture of the work and effect of this distinguished home, measuring it by working hours and the number of laws they call reform, comparing them with the practice of "work before 5 October", forgetting or not seeing the failure of imposed reforms and calling for change in favour of individuals from the rest of DOS. Then, that our debate on the resolution of Natasa Micic postpones, nothing more, further reform, reform laws and necessary changes. (The chairman warns the present MPs not to speak to each other but to listen to the speaker. ) Madam President, I don't mind my fellow MPs yelling, because I speak this on behalf of the promoter, addressing first and foremost the citizens of Serbia. Mrs. Comic, you don't have to calm them down. The debate showed that there was an attempt to put pressure on the emotions of arguments that it was the first woman president of the assembly in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism, that the function of Parliament President Natasa Micic was brought even in connection with the woman, her photogenicity, individual sympathys on this basis, etc., as if it were a measure of doing a very significant presidential function. We promoters, and those who supported the proposal, have not brought anything personal against Natasa Micic. We only stuck to those arguments that affect the preservation of parliamentaryism in Serbia. Discussions by Natasa Micic have demonstrated that she is the one who is extremely concerned about staying in the post of president. We are free to interpret the content of her discussion as a cry for privileges she used, and not appropriate to this function, that she herself understands that it is irreplaceable, that morals and social ethics are unacceptable to her and that democracy lives with her and dies with her and that her resignation would be a general and universal disaster. Natasa Micic has proved that she does not see from her function herself the consequences of her non-democracy, act or indemnity, that she cannot reach ordinary people and how they survive and fail in Serbia. For proposers of this agenda, most of the discussion did not have a negative connotation, it was not destructive or negative, personal or dominant political colour, nor contained messages with political content, but pointed out arguments and pointed to most of the weak sides in the performance of Serbian Parliament president Natasa Micic. This, in our opinion, proved to be an exact inevitability for Natasa Micic to resolve the functions on which he is located. But to be specific about the proposal we made, point by point, I'm going to give evidence that we were absolutely right when we asked for its resolution. The result of the debate, in my opinion and in the proposing opinion, has indicated that the necessity has forced us to seek the resolution of Natasha Micic, and for this proposal we obviously have the support of a large number of MPs, much greater than the number the proposal has submitted. Secondly, the reason for the initiative, above all, is that the protection of parliament as an institution and parliamentarianism in general, because parliamentary democracy is under DOS and with such a president of the National Assembly is seriously at stake. Third, that she was not supported even by the Prime Minister, who blamed some of the bill's proposals so much to be put on the agenda, and she is the one who proposes the agenda, and not us, the MPs. Three initiatives to replace ministers: Gase Knezevic, Minister of Education, Nebojsa Covic, Deputy Prime Minister and Mihajlovic, Police Minister, have never been put on the agenda. The Prime Minister claimed that the democratic fluid that DOS is responsible for is that we can even discuss the President of the Assembly and the Government. That, of course, is not true. You forgot that radicals shot down Nikola Sainovic's government, so Milosevic had to call those extraordinary parliamentary elections on December 19th 1993. You forgot how Bozovic went in 1994, when he thought the same thing that you did, Mrs Micic, that he was the Assembly and that he was parliament. And that is the role of Parliament, to warn you in an adequate way, and that is constitutional law, according to the Rules of Procedure, every MP, and no one can boast that he has made something possible or has not, because we are asking that we be given only what is regulated by the Constitution as the authority of the MPs. Natasa Micic, as Parliament's president, has brought the Assembly and MPs in her position to play vulgarly with them, and that means democracy, which she has seen as the president's dictatorship towards equals. The assembly should be a democratic form of regulation of fundamental social relations, that it has great responsibility, especially at the moment in which Serbia is located, in difficult economic conditions, because the Assembly, together with the government, is the most responsible for the negative flows, tendencies and consequences that are at stake. Ms. Micic is a person against whom several criminal proceedings are being conducted, which is likely to be additionally burdensome, due to a reasonable suspicion that she has committed crimes related to the abuse or exaggeration of official powers, which are claims by MP Stevan Kesejić, MP Goran Cvetanovic, Bozidar Vukurovic, Steve Dragisic, Tomislav Nikolic, and I assume there are more. The president of the Assembly, who proposed to the Lustration Commission people who had never asked if they were willing to accept the work at all, did not deserve to be the president of the National Assembly. You all remember what it looked like. Natasa Micic suggested some people, we prepared for the debate, and then these same people sent to the MPs a notice that the dirty work was not accepted. Ms. Micic has also introduced the Assembly into a state of emergency by introducing a state of emergency, starting with the appointment of sessions, the termination of TV transmissions, because you can explain to anyone in Serbia today that it was not the one who banned the TV transmission, and that it was not the one who allowed those television broadcasts. But after the state of emergency has ceased in the Assembly, the state of emergency continues to apply. The president of the National Assembly, who has threatened human rights, will believe that if this lustration law survives or if someone considers it necessary to apply it, will be the first victim of the Lustration Commission for the threat of human rights and, above all, the rights of MPs in Parliament. We have proved with numerous arguments and examples that she was biased, unbiased and unfair, using her discretionary authority, and that it led the government to control Parliament rather than be the other way around. It allowed the abuse of identification cards, which is absolutely proven and what every citizen of Serbia believes, thus allowing forging votes to cement the election will of 2000, which is absolutely impossible for ladies and gentlemen, because what is only certain is that the election will change from day to day and that citizens from election to election suminate the results of each government. Furthermore, the debate showed that she failed to coordinate the work of the board and never demonstrated her position or called anyone to account. None of the decisions of the Constitutional Court were carried out in view of the disputed parliamentary mandates, so this assembly lost all legitimacy thanks to it. In addition, Natasa Micic also usurped the role of the president of the Republic, which the Constitutional Court has made in its decision and proved. And in her answers to the accusations that the MPs have made her mean and vindictive, threatening even when she needs to defend herself. Zoran Zivkovic, who, on the basis of which he was given the word to speak about something exclusively of our house, accused an additional president of the National Assembly of not putting reform laws on the agenda. However, he confused some, listed some that we had long ago, but he put it on her soul, which turned the Assembly into a market and the greatest success, I think you'll agree with me, is that Natasa Micic moved from Užica to Užičko and that these privileges are severely denied. We were in a position for her security to remove the MPs at the door of the Serbian Parliament so that she could enter her blinded BMW in one step from the National Assembly building. From whom it is hidden is the President of the Assembly, the President of Parliament, in which the MPs elected by the people, who should not hide from anyone, but be constantly in front of the people. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, for us, the vote that we have to do will be a measure of "the capacity of Members to be independent of party membership", because this is not about any coalition, this is about defending parliamentaryism, accepting the fact and the truth about, as one MP said, a complete failure to perform a very significant function. This is what I managed to isolate by following the discussions and MPs who supported the proposal, they were inexcusably trying to defend Natasu Micic, and what she had presented for herself behind this speaker again, proved and demonstrated, which is in favour of the fact that we have come from extreme urgency, although a little late, with this initiative we have begun. But it is never too late for the MPs to pass their judgment on the President of the National Assembly and agree that such individuals who are scramblingly fighting for the post, realize that only they benefit from it, and all other damages should be put to the vote as soon as possible; that would be good. Unfortunately, there is no way to convince Mrs. Comic that according to the Rules of Procedure she is mandatory; we will wait, let it be about Christmas. It remains for history to record everything that the MPs of Natasa Micic said, so who one day deals with parliamentaryism in Serbia, who has a 200-year tradition, will be able to compare it with everyone who previously participated and worked in parliament in any way, and it was good for Mrs Micic, as a representative of such a large political party, decorated only in high-ranking state officials, to come out for this speaker and to express some political attitude, not only to act as a gendarm who stands behind our backs and does not allow us to convey just what the voice of the peoples is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33878	Before I conclude the search, and on the basis of Article 84(2) and Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the President of the Committee on the Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to schedule a session to discuss what has been heard of the pay phone in four waves, on the functioning of police on the streets of Belgrade and on protests, and on the tasks and obligations of police, when the arrivals of senior state officials, such as the arrival of Chancellor Shreder in Belgrade today, are at stake Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Gerhard Schroeder. [[Throwing it out of the bench.]] People's MPs earn money, not knowing who it's about. Therefore, the performances behind the pay phone undoubtedly raise doubts that something illegal or illegal is happening by the Home Office, and I think the Security Committee is the right place to submit a report and that representatives of all parliamentary groups, participating in the debate, show that the National Assembly and how it knows what it is doing. A proposal by the Rules of Procedure, president of the DSS parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33879	I have two suggestions per Rules of Procedure. One is in accordance with Article 81. Rules of Procedure, let's continue our work by 6:30 today, as well as yesterday. That's the first proposal. The second proposal is, given that it is the chairman's responsibility to set a day for the vote, that the National Assembly decide to recommend the National Assembly president to set a date for tomorrow at 10.00 in the morning for the vote on the resolution of Parliament President Natasa Micic, and thus avoid any delays that exist and that there are. Since there is no quorum to decide in the hall now, as 113 MPs and cameras are present, they do well to show which MPs are missing, and these are not DSS MPs or some other opposition parties, but MPs of a position that fears such a decision, which would recommend that a decision be made to vote tomorrow on the resolution of the president of the assembly. I will insist that you put these proposals to the vote when the conditions are met, when 126 MPs are present in the hall and thus allow MPs who want to discuss it, make decisions and discuss the resolution of Natasha Micic. There are probably no DOS MPs here, in the same way that they were not on that famous committee in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Assembly when Momcilu Perisic's mandate was to be removed for spying or some other things, but in this way he cannot defend what is undefenseable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-10-29-0.u33880	I also conclude the search on the basis of Articles 1, 28 and 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 94, Section 2 and Section 4, shall set a working break until tomorrow at 10.00 hours. A reason for a break, the working bodies of the Assembly. So six Assembly committees today to consider government work reports and to have government work reports delivered to MPs of the National Assembly. The rights of MPs at the point of debate on the government's trust is for the government to be present in full composition at the National Assembly Hall. It is the responsibility of the chairman to provide this to the MPs and we will continue work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., and the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on a motion to resolve the president of the National Assembly. Thank you.
