ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34228	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, yesterday, at the end of the debate, you brutally violated the Rules of Procedure, Rule 89, and Article 91, under which MPs are alternately given a word by written notice. You have previously read that Mr. Petar Petrovic is the next member of the Serbian Unity Party, and then you gave the order to Mr. Zahari Trnavčević, in violation of Article 89 and Article 91. Rules of Procedure. It's easy to determine by consulting a stenogram. Mr. Petar Petrovic was called, and you gave the word to the DOS MP outside the rules. It is just another proof that you are a permanent violation of the Rules of Procedure and that that is why you are on the agenda for the shift as Parliament's president. Thank you for your attention and please respond to this observation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34229	I have my argument that MP Petar Petrovic was not in the O.R. He wasn't in the O.R., I called him, I saw that he wasn't; and secondly, I had a written request from the oldest MP, that's Mr. Zechariah Trnavcevic, saying yesterday, since he's gone today. I went out on a date, as I am coming out to meet you to replace once a order of MPs. Then you don't mind, it just bothers you when someone else comes out. The word is given by MP Golub Rajic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34230	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, at the session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, where a report on the work and results of the Ministry for the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment was discussed, I gave my opinion, using the right to take part in the debate on the mistrust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and only today I got my word, and we were able to see that MPs very hard to come up with words from the prime minister and ministers in the government. The work of this ministry, since it was formed on 23 May 2002, and Mrs Angelka Mihajlov's work is undeniable, has certain results, but the fact that it takes time to solve problems in this area, needs resources, very often changing certain habits, primarily human but also normative regulation. Even though it was good co-operation between the Committee and the Ministry, including parliamentary groups, and the law on the environmental protection system is one system law, through the need of everyone, regardless of political conviction, we still haven't adopted it. He's been in procedure for over a year, though. He came to the agenda, so he was withdrawn, and because he's not on the agenda or what hasn't been adopted can't be the opposition's fault. Government, i.e. government or DOS, is responsible for this. The proposals for some of the system laws were not found in the initial draft agenda for the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly, but were proposed by the Government as a complement by an emergency procedure and more important was the law on bankruptcy and the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers than the law on the environmental protection system. Normally, what happened, this government doesn't have a majority in parliament and protection law, and others aren't included in this session on the agenda. Nevertheless, I believe that this is an extremely important law and that it should be adopted as soon as possible. Whether we're going to see this government or anyone else, but if we want to go to Europe, it's inevitable. The government is a continuation of DOS policy, which is devastating for the basic national, political, economic and social interests of the people. It continues to spread false promises that the possible stronger link between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro is within the existing state union, and we see that it is not, and it is increasingly a looser link, and we are all further away. For Kosovo and Metohija, the government still does not have a programme to protect Serbian interests, and now Resolution 1244, which has been criticised so far, is inaccessible. The government will be remembered for continuing to deliver Serbs to the UN tribunal and is one of the most expensive and profitable export operations. There's no other export. The government is the Continuity of DOS policy, whose ultimate reach is to safeguard the positions of government, and that is only a naked and brutal drive to provide and preserve, at all costs and all means, the parliamentary majority to vote everything and everything in the National Assembly. It is absurd for the National Assembly to account for the government rather than for the government to settle daily accounts for the citizens and the Assembly. News and affairs are being invented in the media, and thus tries to distract attention from the growing and unresolved problems that burden every citizen of Serbia's daily life. The government is a gravestone of the Serbian economy and economy. A million are unemployed, and almost all companies are under bankruptcy. It's a huge external trade deficit, and production continues to fall. It's a one-time job abroad. There's a robbery privatisation going on. Today, across Serbia, strikes, demonstrations, and roadblocks are under way. DOS promised Serbian citizens respect for the Constitution and law, rule of law, building democratic institutions, economic development, prosperity and a better life with generous financial assistance from abroad. It has also been promised to build a democratic, fair and responsible state, which will protect poor workers and creators. It's all the opposite today. In the past three years, DOS has shown that there is no, and it had no intention of resolving vital state interests, economic and social problems of society and citizens. From instruments in the hands of financial and political and often criminalised elites, the government has been involved in the robbery and destruction of its own country. Today, Serbia is in the sunflower despite all the good words of the ministers for this pay phone and the tendency to speak alone, blaming all previous regimes. Living hard, and it's gonna be harder, because business activities are dead. That is why this government needs to be voted out of confidence as soon as possible, because every new day brings Serbia and its citizens to a new decline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34231	The word has a minister of religion, Mr Vojislav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34232	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will address you with a few words. After decades of opposition from the state and the churches, or religious communities, it was necessary to put as a priority the Ministry of Faith to create an environment for co-operation between the state and the churches. Then, secondly, after one decade of manipulation of national and religious feelings, it was necessary to also create an environment for mutual co-operation between churches and religious communities. Of course, if we look at the last census, there we can see that only 0.5% has been declared as atheists, 4.5% has not been declared, and 95% of the population has been explicitly declared as believers. If we add to this that churches and religious communities do not belong to any party and that believers belong to all parties, then it is obvious that churches and religious communities are the only integration factor in this party and in all other ways divided by society in Serbia. After this said, I think it would be counterproductive if I were to discuss the results of the ministry alone; I should praise them, and someone to challenge them, especially considering that most of the parties contributed to this work and in these results. I was also impressed by the fact that all churches and religious communities had given the National Assembly an opinion on the work of the Ministry. That's why I think it's much more useful to read how service users see it, to call them that, the work of the Ministry of Faith. A letter came to the National Assembly from the Holy Archaeological Synod, and I will be free to read it to you. "To the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Belgrade. We are honored to inform the National Assembly that, at this contemporary moment, both for the Serbian Orthodox people and for all citizens of the Serbian country, I feel the need to take a brief look at the work of the Ministry of Faith in the Government of the Republic of Serbia from January 2001 to today. First of all, we do not forget the favor of the first prime minister of the Serbian government, by the hand of the criminal who killed Dr Zoran Djindjic, who made his authority that there was an institution in his government of the Ministry of Faith, and led by Dr Vojislav Milovanovic, the protoneimara of the Holy Sava Temple at Vračar. The ministry, as such, not only justified his trust, but also invested and made great efforts to solve all the problems found by the Serbian Orthodox Church and other churches in Serbia, as well as all traditional religious communities within its borders. All the meetings in the period we're talking about were an appropriate time when and why they're being held, and of course, the results aren't missing. However, we do not feel that it is necessary to go into detail. With respect, the president of the Holy Archaeological Synod and Patriarch of the Serbian Paul. "The second opinion was sent to the National Custity of the Republic of Serbia by the Catholic Church in Serbia. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Belgrade, Opinion on the work of the Ministry of Faith: At the beginning of the third millennium, where humanity should finally seek authentic unity and co-operation, there has been a change in our country's society. Comparing now with other countries on the continent, we could clearly identify ourselves in front of which and how many challenges we have faced. I was positively surprised when the Ministry of Faith of the Republic of Serbia immediately began with quality work in the spirit of the best European standards; between churches and religious communities and the ministry, there was an open, full and meaningful dialogue. The dialogue immediately led to works, from the preparation of new laws which, unfortunately, were not adopted in competent institutions (meaning federal institutions), to all other initiatives, such as cooperation between churches, or religious communities and states, the introduction of religion into schools, thinking and a seminar on the role of the church in society and the state, then the question of denationalisation and regulation of sacral buildings. Knowing the other post-Communist countries well, I can say that the Serbian Ministry of Faith has gone the longest way and has taken the most important approach to solving the problem. We would like to highlight in particular the outstanding historical significance of the current activity of the Ministry of Faith which leads to the promotion of peace, reconciliation and co-operation among believers of different nations and confessions, which is crucial for this region. The threat of the process could re-emerge him to chaos and the unsuspecting moves of negative forces. The responsibility for the future of this country, especially young people, who often lose hope, requires that continuity be ensured and the increasing intensity of all those who have already shown that they know what they want and that they love what is good. Wishing everyone a lot of God's inspiration, I respectfully welcome Stanislav Hočevar, the Belgrade Archbishop and the Metropolitan, president of the Bishop's Conference of Serbia-Montenegro. "The next opinion was sent to the Republic Assembly by the Islamic Community. "To the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Education Committee. Dear gentlemen, the Islamic community headed by the Mufti Belgrade Hadji-Hamdija eendija Jusufspahic is expressing its respect and wishes to inform you with this letter of our impressions of the work of the Republic Ministry of Faith, headed by the respected Dr. Vojislav Milovanovic, for the period from January 2001 to October 2003. Right at the beginning, and this way we want to thank Mr Milovanovic, as well as his hardworking associates for their hard work. Because of his great engagement in the exercise of the rights of religious communities, we gave Mr. Minister and his ministry a special thank-you note at the end of September 2003. The Islamic community of Serbia participated in a large number of meetings, along with other churches and religious communities, organised by the Republic Ministry of Faith, which we call our ministry, which is best for you and tells you what our mutual relationship is. At these meetings, very important decisions were made that were subsequently forwarded to the Serbian government, which mainly adopted them. Surely, the greatest success and contribution of the Ministry of Faith and our Minister Milovanovic is that finally, after half a century of waiting, religious return to school, which is indeed a great success for which we are all very proud together. I also want to praise this government of the Republic of Serbia, which has accelerated this process. In this term, faith has not only entered schools, but also other major state institutions that we separate the army from, where the priests entered, and we hope that the representatives of our religious community will soon begin working in the military. We are also grateful to the Ministry of Faith for the support and recognition we received at the construction of the first Belgrade Islamic-theological high school, located in the Street of Master Jevremovo, as well as because of a large number of assistances in other institutions. For example, the emergency at the competent departments of our guests' entrance visas, the intervention on our community's registration number. We are particularly grateful to the Ministry for its efforts to regain our foreign savings and to understand our necessary needs that are still awaiting a solution. It is a prayer space, a cemetery, a residence and an upcoming denationalisation. In the end, or perhaps it would be more relevant at the beginning, which is precisely the confirmation of the second priority that we realized it, mutual co-operation between churches and religious communities. “ It is a common letter signed by all church leaders, or religious communities. I'd like to ask your attention, I'll be free to read it to you. "As the authorised representatives of churches and religious communities, which we have most co-operated with the Ministry of Faith of the Republic of Serbia in the past period, since January 2001, we feel invited to contribute to the work of the National Assembly and to the work of the Ministry of Religion. In order for each of us to express our views individually, we agreed to deliver together to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We note that in no way do we participate in the debate on the confidence of the current government. For such a thing, we do not have the mandate of the churches and religious communities that we represent, and it would not be appropriate for churches and religious communities to plead as arbitration in the name of their religious authority, apart from the legal institutions of the system, the parliament of the party, the organizations of citizens, through which our believers as citizens also have the right and the duty to freely express their political will. They won't speak for the government here, nor against her. The subject of our humble, honest and well-intentioned observations is exclusively the Ministry of Faith. This constitution of the Ministry of Faith has proved to be very effective and meaningful, first of all because the absolute majority of the citizens of our country have declared themselves believers, we feel our responsibility to both the believers and the legal representatives of the state authorities. The Ministry of Faith as a state government institution is the best mediator and carrier in the service that is very demanding, delicate and important. That is why all of us representatives of churches and religious communities have found in the Ministry of Faith of our true self-saphemist on all issues that are specific to religious activity and the general well-being of all citizens. In the Ministry, we had a talker and an interpreter of everything that is expected of the churches and religious communities of this time by the state authorities. So the Ministry of Faith is actually a meeting and intermediation precisely in all those jobs and tasks that are for the general good and consistent functioning of the legal system in society. The ministry is not only nominal, as it used to be, but really a working body to the general well-being that connects, conveys and directs work to itself, knowing and respecting the personalities and autonomy of each church and religious community. Therefore, our assessment and conclusion is that the existence and work of the Ministry of Such a profile is necessary and in further work on general good, which should be the aim of the Government and all its bodies, as is the aim of churches and religious communities, given the citizens of believers and all people of goodwill. We also want to support this claim with several important facts. In the Ministry of Faith and his way of working, we recognized a legitimate state institution, which we could address at any time and with any problem, certain that our intentions would be properly interpreted, the application properly supported and done everything possible to resolve possible disputes fairly. In the process of returning religious teaching to the state school, the Ministry of Faith was in a personal way an inevitable addressee of meetings and bridges of co-operation with the Ministry of Education and Sports, as well as with other state institutions. The plan created one of the most valuable institutions of the newer date, which is the Commission of the Serbian Government for the organisation and monitoring of religious teaching, established by representatives of all churches and religious communities, representatives of the Ministry of Religion and the Ministry of Education and Sports. At that time, a huge job of co-operation and dialogue was launched, which, according to a general assessment, even for some other European countries, became an example of how inter-confissional and inter-religious cooperation in the dialogue of tolerance and respect for diversity and in achieving the single objective of the common good. With the most effective help of the Ministry of Faith, the commission has become recognizable in all churches and religious communities, as well as in the structures of state authorities. Thus, a model of the most effective co-operation was found between churches and religious communities and state authorities. It's the best model possible. In co-operation with the Ministry of Faith, several international meetings were held with a professional topic that is important for our and international relations, such as tolerance, reconciliation, identity, etc. The ministry has also been on several occasions an intermediary of the participation of members of different churches and religious communities at international meetings abroad. Our contribution to presenting true values and our testimony to democratic change in our society has also been a major contribution to our country's representation. The ministry also organised many gatherings of similar character at or at the level of the Republic of Serbia. So counselling, seminars, stands, exhibitions and the like were held. All of this indicates how great the area of co-operation is, and that this kind of quality co-operation is of even greater importance to our future. In achieving the rights of churches and religious communities in various domains, the Ministry of Faith was the first and fair mediator. So we have achieved good co-operation with several ministries, and in a special way we need to highlight the problem of religious officials and military service, where both the ministry and the other have come into contact with the legitimate demands of church and religious communities. A special chapter of the Ministry of Religion's work is the presence of the minister and his associates at all significant religious gatherings. In his speeches and performances, Mr. Minister was always the best interpreter of what was expected of churches and religious communities, at this time, very important and his clear views regarding the general good, tolerance and co-operation, which were expected of churches and religious communities, and every member of the church or religious community could contribute. We responsibly argue that the presence of the Minister and Ministry of Faith in the public especially at religious gatherings where a large number of people appear has contributed to the safer stabilisation and improvement of our society. It is our opinion that this very profile of the Ministry for this society is very important and that the spiritual dimension that can be further expanded through the Ministry and in collaboration with the Ministry in our society opens up new pages of a better perspective, progress of the overall social community. We are grateful to the Ministry, Mr. Minister and all his associates that the churches and religious communities have found their place in this way of working their responsible representatives and have felt their mission of respect and appreciation, as an extremely positive component of this society. In the hope that this memo, even in the shortest lines, has expressed a wide range of work by the Ministry of Faith, we remain in the hope of further co-operation. In Belgrade, 31.10.2003. "They're in signature, and that's what made me particularly happy and gives me a satisfaction for everything I've done, on a list of representatives of all churches and religious communities. These are: the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Authorised President of the Episcope Backi Irinej; the Islamic Religious Community, Deputy President Mešihata Mevlud Dudic; the Catholic Church, President of the Commission for Serbia-Montenegro Master Andrija Kopilović; the Slovak Evangelical Church - Bishop Samuel Vrbovski; the Evangelical Christian Church - the Superintendant Arpad Dolininski; the Reforman Christian Church - Bishop of Istvan Chete Semeshi; the Jewish community, the President of the Religious Commission, Mr Davor Salom. I am very grateful to them in these opinions that have been addressed to the National Assembly and all this work I've done for the past three years, and believe me, it wasn't small, this one has been compensated. This is a very big satisfaction for me. It would be ugly, after what I said as an introduction, if I were to add something. I am happy that the users of the Ministry's services are satisfied and I am grateful to all the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament for making a contribution to everything mentioned here. Of course, I am also grateful to most parties, because in this work, as has not happened elsewhere, representatives of almost all parties participated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34233	The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a proposing representative, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34234	Ladies and gentlemen, this presentation of the current minister of religion has shown that the Serbian government is also responding to what we do not accuse it of, or that they have imagined that they are submitting reports on their work, not to respond to the accusations the SRS is insisting on here, to convince the other MPs, and we believe that we have already received the majority to vote on a proposal that should be resolved by this government, or to vote for mistrust and for the public of Serbia not to speak. So we didn't mention the Ministry of Faith at all in the proposal. As far as we're concerned, this statement of yours, Mr. Minister, is quite degutant, given that the church is in charge of the spiritual state of the citizens and should not interfere at all, when it comes to a state body such as the Ministry of Faith and to leaving it to us, to the MPs and to the Serbian Parliament, to assess whether you've been doing well or not. Of course, we didn't mention you at all, but that doesn't mean we don't have any objections to your work. For example, we can blame you for missing and not engaging enough with your friends in the world, or with the European Union, or with the Holy Synod of the Serbian Orthodox Church, to allow the joint forces of the Episcopal of Filaret, Bishop Milesevski, to travel to the countries of the European Union, because he expressed his desire to go to the Netherlands, go to The Hague Tribunal and visit all Serbs in prison and give them spiritual support. That was your assignment. Why don't the Bishop of Mileshevsky, Mr. Filaret, let him go to Holland and The Hague? Because he's known as a patriot, an anti-globalist, an anti-hegemonist. That is the reason, and it was yours to help the Serbian Orthodox Church and Bishop Filaret himself, as well as the Serbs in The Hague, so that they can meet with Prime Minister Filaret. That's what we can blame you for and possibly that, although it's not of little importance, that you failed in three full years to pass us a proposal for a law on religious communities, and we think it's necessary. If you go out to tell me -- what you didn't do while you were in power, I have to tell you that we had a final proposal, a final law on religious communities, and we still have it, but we didn't get there, because of that "storm" in 2000, to put it in the assembly procedure. I hope since the new year we can do that and it'll mean a lot. Don't be afraid that both you and the church were satisfied with the fact that religious science was introduced to schools, because it was the sole merit of Gaša Knezevic, who, in order to put in civil education, had to have some pandan, so it was a religious one, and then it was, you remember, undefined, which were not just the ones that now, as traditional churches, supported you, but many others. Thanks to the amendment of the SRS MPs, it is clear that it can only be the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Community, the Catholic Church, the Slovak Church, the Evangelical Christian Church and the Reformian Christian Church, as well as the Jewish community. It was our contribution, at least to define it and to protect children from possible sects in schools. I'm not going to say anything about the thanks the church has given you. As far as I could record here, you are, as you were saying, the protoneimar of the Church of St. Sava. But you did not say that you appeared in a triple role, as a contractor, a subcontractor and an investor. So you should explain that, as minister, how you allowed yourself to find yourself in three roles and abuse your position when it comes to building the temple of the Holy Sava.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34235	The word has a minister of religion, Mr Vojislav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34236	I'll try to answer you in a row. When it comes to His reawareness to Ruler Filaret, I've known him a lot longer than I suppose everyone here knows and don't doubt his good intentions. Secondly, if we are talking about this ban on exits, the ban on exits has not been imposed either by the government, especially by the Ministry of Faith. That's something that came from the outside. Do not doubt it at all, and there is no place to mention here the Holy Archaeological Synod, that both the Synod and the Church and all the institutions are not making every effort to get our citizens into other countries and the residents of our citizens in other countries under the same conditions. I wouldn't give you an example right now. I'm sure you're familiar with the examples, and these pledges are known to church dignitaries, starting with the Foreign Ministry, to this, some small ministry. For the law of religious freedom, I fully agree with you. There is only one little misunderstanding for now: the law on religious freedom is still in federal jurisdiction, it was in the jurisdiction of the federal government, and now still in the jurisdiction of the assembly. You know that the law was made, of course, not by the Republic Ministry of Faith, but submitted by the Federal Secretariat of Faith, and that at the last session, it was interrupted, it was not passed. I could tell you about the temple for hours, but I don't think this is the place to talk about the temple, because it's the building of the Serbian Orthodox Church, not the building of the state. I've only been showing up there in one role for 18 years. So I'm the one who translates into this modern language, the coordinator of it, and far from being any performer, even less that I'm an investor. It might have been so impromptu for me, but unfortunately, I'm not all of it. There I am a little servant of God who has been helping to build it for 18 years. I would not go further, because it is a private building of the Serbian Orthodox Church and is not a topic for this speaker. I thank you both for your remarks and your questions, I think that's always useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34237	The word has a minister for labour and employment, Mr Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34238	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, the Ministry of Labour and Employment has been a newly formed ministry and has emerged from the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. With its creation, it outlined its basic labour objectives: preparing new labour and employment reform laws, the social balance between employers' interests and employees, the new concept of employment-based earnings and labour outcomes, the provision of minimum existential and social security to employees through the establishment of minimum earnings in the Republic, the development and improvement of social dialogue, the preparation and completion of general employment contracts, the adoption of a national employment strategy, the fundamental reform of the labour market and the transition from passive to active measures, the ultimate aim of which is to increase employment, the adoption and implementation of social programmes to ensure the social security of employees who have lost their jobs in the process of restructuring and the privatisation process, the support of self-employment programmes, the legality and efficiency of business enterprises for the employment and employment of disabled persons, the promotion of active employment programmes, the work of employment, the security and the security of the security of the security system, the security of the security and security of the environment, the security of the environment, the security of the environment, the security of the environment and the security of the environment, the security of the environment, the environment, the security of the environment and the environment, security of the environment and the security of the environment, security of the environment, security of the environment, security of the environment, security and the environment, security and security of the environment, security and security and security and security and security and security, security of the environment, security and security and security and security of the environment, security and security of the environment, security of the environment, security of the environment, security of the environment, security of the environment, security of the environment, and security of the environment, security of the environment, and the environment. These were our goals when we started, and we started in very bad conditions of every kind. At the Ministry, when we started working, there were only two computers and it was broken. Now the Ministry can say it's trained technically, that it works successfully. The ministry has been trained to make it work successfully, because you will see from these results what we have achieved so far. To me, the most important thing is, when it comes to legislative activity, the Ministry has proposed, and you have adopted two very important reform laws. The first is, of course, the Labour Act, which was passed in December 2001. The second is the Employment Act, which was brought in July this year. The labour law was done in a new way, with the cooperation of all social partners, primarily trade unions and employers. It's a modern, reform law that has helped make working relations in our country much better than they have been. But most importantly, it is that a flexible labour market has been created that has helped to increase the number of those employed by providing themselves with jobs. During the drafting of this law, we have had a large number of presentations, a great co-operation with everyone in our society and we have received good criticism for this law. All experts say it's one of the better laws in the field of work. During the implementation of the law, the ministry visited all Serbia, held a large number of seminars, presentations, and we issued two publications related to the law. It is a guide for the creation of an individual collective contract and contract on work and application of flexible forms of work. These publications enabled all those who wanted to get directly acquainted with the possibilities of this law to use it and enter their own business through it. The employment law was passed recently, but it immediately gave effect. I have to say, for this short time, there's been a slower rise in unemployment. As for Belgrade, it may be the best result right now, because for the first time we have less unemployment growth by 1.6% compared to last year's month, which is an indication that the law is good and that it has started to produce results. One of the most important tasks of the Ministry of Labour and Employment was, above all, the development of social dialogue. Social dialogue before 2001 did not exist in Serbia. The trade unions were not set up as organisations treated equally in this society. This ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia, in these thousand days, have given great importance primarily to the development of social dialogue and co-operation with the unions. The first Social-Economic Council was established in August 2001. The Social-Economic Council aimed at bringing relations between employers, trade unions and governments into line and leading to certain relations, which aim to improve our country's standards, and that workers through the Social-Economic Council above all can make their views known. The Social-Economic Council includes the three strongest and strongest union organisations, the Alliance of Independent Unions, the United Border Union "Independence" and the Association of Free and Independent Unions. There are representatives of the Union of employers of Serbia and, normally, representatives of the government. There are nine members in the Social-Economic Council and now there are union presidents, representatives of the Union and three ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia. What is important is to say that we have developed the Social-Economic Council at local level, there are 14 local socio-economic councils that function successfully and I think they have justified their goal. The Social and Economic Council discussed very important laws and I would mention this Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the Employment Act, the Safety and Health Protection Act at Work and the strategy on poverty reduction and the like. Normally, there have been some disagreements when it comes to the Social-Economic Council, but that's something that needs to get over when it comes to something new being introduced to us. In any case, the Social-Economic Council has taken its place in Serbia, it will be further developed, as a law on the socio-economic council will be made very quickly, and then it will be placed as an institution where it belongs. Otherwise, in addition to the Social-Economic Council, the Employment Council and the Safety and Safety Council were formed, which are also on a tripartite level. The Employment Council has been actively working on the draft Employment Act. The Safety and Safety Council is working together on the safety and health protection law at work. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has been resolutely in charge and monitors profits in this country. I'm happy to say that the profits in this country have been growing in the past. Normally, they are still not at that level that everyone would like to be, but I will only mention that the average net profit in October 2000 was 2,925 dinars, that already in December 2001 it was 8,456 dinars, in December 2002, 11,555 dinars, and in September 2003 it was 11,953 dinars, I'm talking about net earnings, the one the worker is carrying home. When it comes to the relationship between the consumer basket and the profit, let me say that the consumer basket in October 2000 was 6,764 dinars, and now in September the consumer basket is 10,691 dinar. This says that in October, for example, it was necessary, or in 2000, that it took 2.31 earnings to buy that consumer basket, and now it only takes 0.89% of that profit. When it comes to the relationship of guaranteed and minimum profit, there's only one fantastic leap ahead. In October 2000, the guaranteed profits amounted to only 280 dinars, now at 4,698 dinars. This says that there has been a certain growth in living standards and what needs to be pointed out here, because there have been several poles on the subject, a consumer basket now taken as a rapper is much bigger than it was in 2000. In 2000, the consumer basket had as its content only expenditure on food products, meaning drink. This basket that is now accounted for also includes hygiene, medicines, school supplies, city transport, municipal services, PTT services, electricity and one part of clothing, which says that this consumer basket is currently a real display of what is needed for a household. When it comes to employment and unemployment, I must say that unemployment is our country's biggest problem right now. In the period from 1991 to 2001, the total number of employees fell by more than half a million, with social sector employment reduced by 32.3%, while private sector employment doubled. In 2002. A positive trend in employment growth has been recorded, though 11.6% in the private sector. A total of 954,794 unemployed persons were registered in September 2003. That rate is 30% and that's a big percentage, but at the same time we have somewhere between 600,000 and 800,000 workers working on black. Each third person shall register for the exercise of the right, and his work engagement shall be carried out in the gray economy. It is a very worrying fact, but we expect that by the end of next year, the new employment law, which has been set up so that the unemployed become active search engines for various jobs, will lead to the reduction of the number of unabsorbed ones. We already have, and I said that, a certain increase in employment, which is good, and interesting that this employment has jumped the most in some districts that are ranked as municipalities with a large number of unemployed. Here, above all, I mean Braničevsky County, where there was an increase of 57.4%, there is the Borski County 44%, Zajecarski 33.7% and in Belgrade 26.5%. An unconformed offer structure and job-seeking structure has been observed, up to 380,905 vacancys were offered. In the first nine months of this year, 310.830 persons were employed, which is 11.3% higher than last year's period. There has been a rise in employment in persons with high professional training by 16.5% and in the fifth degree of professional training by 21.3%. Compared to last year, private sector participation in the total number of new jobs increased by 6.3%, while the social sector registered a 5.9% reduction. Continued reform processes can be expected to intensify this trend. The government of the Republic of Serbia is taking great care first of all of the workers who are left out of work in the restructuring process. In 2003, the working relationship stopped for 26,693 persons due to bankruptcy, liquidation, termination of employers' work or termination of labour needs due to technological and organisational changes. In July 2003, the right to cash compensation was granted by 87,493 people, which is 31.8% higher than last July. What I still want to point out, what we need to say, is that we have provided a certain social programme for all those enterprises that are going into restructuring. Over the past two years, about ten billion dinars have been spent in the restructuring process. The social programme foresees the possibility for workers to choose one of the most suitable options for them. Here, first of all, I mean the 6,000 dinars offered per year of work. If it is more suitable for a worker to select ten average salaries in the Republic or to go to the National Employment Service for severance and normally receive a certain remuneration there. The government of the Republic of Serbia has thus resolved surplus employees in large businesses and banks. The social programme solved 11069 employees in banks who lost their jobs. The total number in 2002 and 2003 was 73,933 employees who received some compensation through the social programme. I would mention that the Zastava solution and restructuring formed the Employment and Education Flag, which included 11,768 workers, and now number 6,778, which means there was a reduction of 4,990 employees, who resolved their issue. Otherwise, the government of the Republic of Serbia settles the obligations it has made with this agreement every month for workers in the Employment Flag. Under the Ministry of Labour and Employment's supervision is both work training and employment of disabled people. In 2001, we inherited an enormous debt to these protective workshops and these companies. The debt was 70,796,265 dinars. In 2002, the total commitments of 2001 and a large part of the 2002 commitments were met for 61 companies that submitted requests for a refund of funds. In 2003, 238,000,426 dinars were paid for 59 companies. Now we are in a position to pay off the funds neatly month after month without delay. Otherwise, in addition to paying off these funds, the Ministry of Labour is providing assistance to businesses in designing business audits, providing new jobs, making business plans. When it comes to the Ministry's activities, I would also mention the prevention of disability. The Social-Economic Council has proposed to allocate funds to prevent disability, and the government has accepted the proposal, singled out 60 million dinars to prevent disability. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has been resolutely in charge of the programme and is currently working on collecting instructions from union and business representatives to the ministry. So far, 8,754 instructions have been requested and 44,000,055 dinars have been provided for. In this way we expect that a large number of workers working under difficult conditions will go to spas, be treated and be allowed to continue their work normally. For the first time when it comes to the prevention of disability, a scale has been created on which those workers who have very low salaries, because so far it has been a practice to pay 50% for the state, and 50% for employers, so it was an example that companies that do bad business can't send their workers to the spa because they didn't have that 50% to pay. We have now projected a new programme and made a scale that depends on the salary paid by the company, so there are companies that will not pay anything to prevent their workers, but the government will pay all 100% for their treatment. The Ministry of Labour and Employment succeeded in returning the solidarity daily of 4,407,000,000 dinars during this period. These diaries were recovered under the Law on the Termination of the Law on Solidarity of Employees, which are temporarily out of work due to war acts. The funds were used to realise adopted socio-economic programmes. The remaining funds after the implementation of the socio-economic programmes were used to lend small and medium-sized enterprises via the Republic Development Fund. In 2002 investment loans amounted to 484,000.364 dinars, resulting in over 900 jobs and contracts with 54 companies were concluded. When it comes to solidarity logs, I must say that we are the only one who has managed to recover funds from the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia for the time being. The Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia has received 6.5m to help workers from Kosovo. Unfortunately, the budget inspection found that these funds were not used on purpose. Out of the first four million, as paid to the Union of Samostlen Trade Unions, 1,240,000 were spent on employees' salaries: the Solidarity Fund was paid to 605,000, the Greater Union of Yugoslavia was paid 100,000, and they spent 1,537,000 for sponsorships; yes, Mika Smiljanic. It is interesting that out of the solidarity logs, gifts were bought for March 8th, that it was the least dedicated, so out of four million dinars, as required for the help of workers for Kosovo, only 50,000 dinars were given to workers from Kosovo, and this shows the relationship that the union has shown according to these solidarity logs. The ministry launched the procedure and the budget inspection found that the funds were used. We asked for those funds back. The Alliance of Independent Trade Unions does not repay those funds and we have initiated proceedings before the court to collect those funds. When it comes to self-employment, the Ministry has given little help through the social program. I have to say small, because the amount is 30,000 dinars, but that's welcome to those who go into business. Those 30,000 dinars are grants. In 2002, there were only 19 such contracts, but I have to say that 193 contracts of 5,790,000 dinars have already been signed for the first 10 months, which says that a certain number of workers have gone into private business and that they provide employment for themselves and for others who hire. Otherwise, the Ministry's jurisdiction is also inspection. The total number of inspectors is currently 538, and of which 286 inspectors are exclusively engaged in curbing the appearance of work on black. The ministry, and I'm proud to say, has managed to get the inspection, which has been completely abandoned, reorganized and able to cope successfully with the work on black. We provided something that was unimaginable before, which is that all our inspectors now have their jobs, or have offices, have their own desk, their own computer, that every inspection service and office has a certain number of cars, which was not the case before. This resulted in a large number of increases in the number of controls carried out by the inspection. It's an indication that it's one of the successful parts of the Ministry of Labour. I'll just say this information, which seems to me to be the most important, which is the number of persons that the inspection directly hired. In 2000, this amounted to 5,932 people, and in 2001 6,531 people, in 2002, were already 12,695 people, and from January 1, this year to 15,10 this year, 26,110 persons were employed. It shows that labour inspection, I think, is at this point one of the most successful organizations in employment. We, of course, are moving forward with inspection reforms and we will continue in that direction, so that we can get a modern, modern inspection, which will be integrated and bound to other inspections, which will increase its efficiency. The Ministry of Labour and Employment had major international co-operation. I will mention that we are the first Ministry of Labour to return our country to the International Labour Organization. This ministry took part in the International Conference and Labour Organization in Geneva, where it was commended for its work by the general director, Mr Samovia. As far as the projects are concerned, I'm happy to say that we are currently working on several very important projects at the Ministry. It is, above all, the promotion of employment, learning and innovation, which is done in collaboration with the World Bank and the Department for International Development of the Government of Great Britain, so-called difit. It's almost five million dollars, which will be used for employment, learning and innovation. It is a pilot project that develops into four municipalities, which are Nis, Kraljevo, Pančevo and Lazarec. Why are these municipalities chosen? Because these are municipalities that are related to exactly one industry, and if these companies, which were shut down in those municipalities or if they were to go down, a large number of employees would not have the opportunity to work. We expect this programme to develop to other Serbian cities and to employ a large number of people with the help of the World Bank. The second project is to support measures to develop human resources in addressing the problem of unemployment and surplus employees in Serbia. The project aims to create best practice for the development of human resources policy and professional training for citizens. The overall goal is to contribute to the development of the national system of human resources, based on the principle of learning throughout life, as well as to assist in the employment and adaptation of unemployed and excess workers. The pilot phase will cover the Shumadia region. The project is worth 2m euros and is financed by the European Agency for Reconstruction and will primarily include Kragujevac and the environment in the pilot phase. The duration of the project is two years. A very important project is also "Beautiful Serbia". The project is significant because it contains three objectives. The first goal, normally, is to hire the unemployed. In addition, we provide education precisely for those staff who seek employment and ultimately, what I think is good for all of us, we get better streets and squares in Belgrade and Serbia. The project started in Belgrade, and so far we've provided about two million dollars. The sponsors are the Netherlands and Canada, and we expect that soon, as the negotiations are under way, this sponsorship will also be extended to Austria and Greece, and the project has already entered the realisation phase in the town of Nis. We expect that this project will be in Novi Sad very soon. It is our desire to extend it to all cities in Serbia. I expect we'll get a lot of funding here, because foreign donors are interested in seeing their help, which they're giving us, in particular. This will be seen because certain buildings, streets and squares will be arranged and that will allow a certain number of workers to find a job. I must mention that we have a project to reform the integration of inspection and that we have received $500,000 for this project to help the US government. Normally, that money will just be used to train the inspection service. I also have to mention the $40,000 aid we got from the Dutch government to finance and develop social dialogue. It is necessary to mention a project done with the International Labour Organisation, which was just heading towards the development of social dialogue. The social partners, or representatives of the Union of Employers, visited several countries that have highly developed social dialogue. Here, first of all, I mean the Czech Republic, Portugal, Ireland, which showed the greatest results on that segment and field. And finally, let me say a few words about planned activities and what is currently being done at the Ministry of Labour and Employment. Right now, it is the preparation of the implementation of 11 laws: the union law, the law on employers' associations, the law on socio-economic council, the law on peaceful settlement of collective and individual labour disputes, the strike law, the law on the employment of foreign citizens in the Republic of Serbia, the law on labour records, the law on employment of persons with disabilities, the law on safety and health at work, the law on insurance based on labour injuries and occupational diseases, the law on employment and protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia abroad. We are about to adopt a national employment strategy. Otherwise, it will be the first national employment strategy ever brought into this country. The preparation of a platform for the establishment of a National Centre for Labour Training and Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Investment, the Fund for the Employment of Persons, the promotion and development of social dialogue, the incentive and association of employees and the Association of Employers. What I think is most importantly done is a programme to encourage the creation of new jobs, which will be credited by the government of the Republic of Serbia, as a project of an active employment measure. The programme aims to enable those involved in private business to borrow up to 600,000 dinars, which will be very fast and accessible to all. The goal is for all those who want to deal with certain production to be stimulated by the state and thus to open up new 130,000 small and medium-sized enterprises over 500,000 workers over the next four years. This was briefly about the activities of the Ministry of Labour and Employment. I thank you for listening to me very carefully, and I am at your disposal for all questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34239	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the right to propose, and Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr Dragoslav Šumavac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34240	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the SRS' proposal to vote for mistrust will begin in just a few days. Only after ministers present their reports, which is obvious, is stalled by the debate, and as a representative of the Serbian Radical Party's proposing, I use this right to break the monotony between a minister's report and another minister's report. I don't know how many of them are left, but we'll hold on to their reports, and then you'll all get a chance to get rid of the government, so we'll see how it ends. I was expecting, Mr. Milovanovic, that you will also go out for this pay phone with numerous telegrams of support for workers across Serbia, but it seems that your telegrams are coming in badly, but that's why we're getting various faxes, telegrams, letters, and this morning a man in front of the Assembly gave me this one bill, a table, about your finding that you're satisfied with the increase in earnings, which is now on average 11.953 dinars, and the claim that the consumer basket is 0.89%. That's what your statistic says, and here's one citizen says -- bread, December 2000, the price was three dinars, January 2003, 20 dinars, 666 percent of the man's bill, I guess he calculated well. Oil 11, now 70, that's 636%. Sugar 8 dinars, 45 now, 563 percent. The meat was 325%, a bottle of beer, says 525%, a ticket to the city transport of 500%. The classic cigarettes in 2000 were six dinars, now 30, that's 500 percent. Daily print 400%. The utility, he says, for a 50-square apartment there used to be 500 dinars, and now 1,600 dinars. The milk was seven dinars, and now 24. Phone, minimum consumption, if it was 100 dinars in 2000, now it's 600 dinars. Fuel from eight to 45 now, so 563 percent higher. They're some bills, and I haven't really checked them out, but I feel good about them every morning when I come to the store to buy what I need most. Yesterday, a little depression, the science minister was saying, I don't know in what context exactly, I can't remember, but the remote heating he was talking about was how big progress it was. I come home, and there's 10 metres of wood outside my house, which we ordered for heating. However, it passes the pipeline near my house, but it takes 2,500 euros for the connection. I don't know how, Mr. Minister, to pay, we know what's good and what's more effective, but we can't out of these 11,000, I can't out of these 26,000, which I get, to pay, let alone that army of unemployed or those who live on disability or social contributions. Minister, you should read the morning newspaper, here you are Maria Raseta-Vukosavljevic qualified everyone here as I would not want for this pay phone, not to risk a warning, but that there is a conflict of interest with you, obviously there is, because you can't be a union leader at the same time, or you were, and now the president of a party, as you called it, "the Labour Party". We expect other answers from you. How are we going to hire these 970,000 people who are currently out of a job and how are we going to hire those or how are we going to keep those who are yet to lose their jobs, which is a huge number, given the number of enterprises that are under bankruptcy or already bankrupt? Employees receive extremely small salaries, not in a small number of cases. About 250,000 employees a month don't even have this charity you mention here as something we should be proud of. You're forcing us into transition misery. The total number of employees is 1.282,049, in a country with eight million inhabitants and a million unemployed. Which state can stand and what workers can expect. Over 70% of the population lives in poverty. That's what you'd have to bring out here after this pay phone, how you think you're going to get past it and why you led to what you've led to. I don't think I should convince the citizens of Serbia at all that what you've been saying makes any sense. They know very well what is true, and what is not, but I am obliged to inform you that the unions are announcing a strike here in Belgrade tomorrow, that today "Mitros" is strikein' you at a crossroads, on the so-called "Mitros". "Malti", and strike for what they say -- "Krmivoproduct" offers for the company Mitros three euros and a social programme, and Mr. Vlahovic is guessing and saying -- he will get a million euros and a social programme. They're dissatisfied with each other, and it's obvious that Mitros is selling the same as Carnex was selling to the Cromivoproduct, but it started a long time ago, even if you remember when Carnex pastures were declared medically invalid, even though they didn't miss anything, but the price of Carnex fell slowly. Today, the "Bird Product" has "Carnex," and I'm sure this Mitros will make it, too, to win. This morning these 12 IMT workers, who I mentioned to you the other day, tried a letter to all the MPs to deliver here at the National Assembly, to come to the application in the National Assembly building. They were stopped by cops. 12 people, six cops, who told them to stay away from this Terrano store. He passed through Tomislav Nikolic and took 15 of those copies we shared with journalists, so I am obliged that since it is up to you to see what these 12 workers who represent in fact these 970,000 unemployed think about your impact in the Ministry of Labour. "We 12 workers of the Industry of Machines and Tractors are addressed to respected MPs, so it refers to everything, for no apparent reason or cause, by the will and order of the chairman of the Management Board of IMT, Dragan Milovanovic, and the current Minister of Labour and Employment, we have been expelled from work as the last criminals and we are prohibited from entering IMT. The job-outs were carried out, under the orders of Dragan Milovanovic, IMT director Vidan Djokovic and IMT General Sector Director Radomir Belosevic, making up reasons for his resignation. Since then, on 8 December 2002, it takes our fight to prove that we have done nothing that is burdened us and that the only reason for us to get kicked out of work is to disagree with the methods and methods carried out by Dragan Milovanovic in IMT. We spoke to the government. The late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was also introduced. Labour inspection, with Minister Dragan Milovanovic, the Ministry of Labour, the court, but also after a year, although the law and arguments are on our side, we are still on the street. Our efforts to achieve our right to work are not based on the mere return to work but on the removal of shame and humiliation that we were exposed to when we were expelled from work and banned from IMT, in which we all worked for more than 25 years, out of which, by his boast and non-civilization, we were expelled by Dragan Milovanovic, a man full of the mouth of workers and their rights. Unfortunately, reality is much more cruel. By evicting for no reason or cause, we 12 IMT workers, a former colleague, and now Minister and Government Dragan Milovanovic, have broken off every link and every right to call for workers' interests, and by preventing us from returning to the factory abuses the position of minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear MPs, we ask you to pledge your influence and the powers you have, so that 12 IMT workers can return to work and so send a clear message to all those who, by coming to power, thought that the gods who can no matter decide the fates of the people and the existence of their families. In the hope that you will react, with respect, to the 12 expelled workers of the Machine Industry and the New Belgrade tractors." I have been obliged, since we have come to possess this, to convey it to all of you, because it applies to all the MPs, and Mr. Minister can answer them or not respond to them. Minister, there are a number of faxes arriving as an additional argument that your ministry has done nothing to protect workers and to do something in favour of workers, but on the contrary only to their harm. A much greater disappointment is that you were once the leader of a union, and then translated that union into a political party. When you talk about politicizing the union, I believe you're thinking of yourself. If someone's never politicized the union or interfered in a union fight, it's the SRS. We have always given support to workers, as part of what unions should advocate, which is improving the position of workers, the height of wages, etc., and when it comes to political struggle, then we have always asked workers to leave it to us, politicians, to solve within the framework of the institutions. All of what I'm saying here will be spoken by presidential candidate Tomislav Nikolic today in Panchev at a rally at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34241	The river has Minister Dragan Milovanovic, so Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, and Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, and Minister Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34242	I see that this is where the election campaign began much earlier than it was supposed to or expected. Your Honor, you must know one simple thing, that the chairman of the board of directors never quits, that the chairman of the board of directors takes care of the business policy of the company, and that he's not the one who quits to someone. On the other hand, the Labour Act is very clear and very precise. The labour law takes care of workers. Twelve people you mention were fired in a perfectly legitimate way. These workers complained about the labour inspection. The labour inspection was there, determined the situation and delivered it to the workers. Workers have the opportunity to exercise their right through the court. If these court workers had exercised that right, you'd probably have that memo saying what they're saying. But that's not the point. The goal is to disabling what is successful in some way. You know IMT is one successful collective, you know it's one of the rare metal factories that regularly pays the salary. You know it's a factory that exports its products, which is rare for our market. Normally, you know that IMT is a company that has shown envious results throughout the world over the past 50 years. Everyone expected IMT to fail. He didn't fail. Unfortunately, he threw out a new tractor at the Novosad Fair, fully in line with European standards, a tractor that can be sold immediately on the European market. Normally, it should now be seen as one failure. My dear lady, IMT will be a successful factory and will be successfully privatized because it is working with the world's largest tractor manufacturers, such as John Dir, for example. That's not the point. The point is that Dragan Milovanovic appears, now as president of the Labour Party, as a man who does not care about workers. But you're wrong, ma'am. In order for you to know what the workers think, you have to spend with the workers in the factory and the machine, like me, for 20 years, eating bread with them, seeing what it means to do there, and you'll see what the workers think. Workers always think well of those who work with them. The ones you're talking about weren't workers. If they were workers, they'd be working at IMT now. It's a fact and it's true, dear lady. Your presidential candidate can go after Serbia and talk about what he wants, but trust me, there will be no success.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34243	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34244	Dear Mrs. Comic, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Pop-Lazic, regarding the first part of your presentation today on what is the standard of living, what are the prices and what are the average salaries, I will try to give you the right information, since you have said a few things that are absolutely not. First, you brought into suspected republican statistics, based on which we make regular monthly price information, on average earnings, on the level of coverage of minimum and average consumer baskets, on profits, and by showing you a table which, as you said, was given to you by an employee who recorded prices. You said yourself you weren't checking those prices, but that's what it says. Here, I'll give you the exact information. First, the average net earnings in Serbia in September 2000, which was the last month before democratic changes, amounted to 2.576 dinars, and the monthly consumer basket, minimum, was at that time 5,403 dinars, and it took 2,09 average net earnings to cover the consumer basket at that price. In September 2003, the average net earnings were 11.953 dinars and were 4.6 times the average earnings of September 2000, while covering a minimum consumer basket of food, drinks and services, identical to that which was in September 2000, required 0.9 average earnings and amounted to over 10,400 dinars. Practically, it is more than a duplicate real-life standard in Serbia measured by the average monthly net earnings and the value of the minimum consumer basket. An even better coverage of the average consumer basket, since its coverage in September 2000 required to allocate 3.45 of the average net earnings then, at those prices, and in September of this year it was necessary to allocate 1.46 average net earnings to cover the average consumer basket. Another indicative, but very clear indication that the standard of living is increased, this is measured worldwide, at least for those who monitor official statistics, this is the percentage share of food and drinks in the consumer basket. What's first seen, that's September 2000. However, where 78.6% of earnings were needed to cover the cost of food and drink in the consumer basket or 74.5% in the average consumer basket. Now, in September 2003, it takes 63% to settle food and drink costs in the consumer basket, minimally, or 58.5% to cover food and drink costs in the average consumer basket. I'll give you this information, since every month, we share every month with every journalist at a regular monthly press conference. This information includes the content of a minimum consumer basket, with all prices and quantities, so when you have time to go to the market, go to the supermarket, check these prices, as all people and journalists do every month, so if you find that any price does not match these values, then go out for a pay phone and deny it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34245	National MP Dejan Mihajlov, proposed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34246	In a decision that determines the responsibilities of the president or the chairman of the National Assembly, just to warn you or to ask you to protect the National Assembly from attack by ministers. Here, four ministers will speak in a row, at least to allow one MP to speak after each minister. As for the MPs in this assembly, the right to debate has been abolished in the first place. In this way, you make it impossible for MPs to participate in the debate on confidence in the government. It is a fundamental and essential right to raise the government's trust issue and that ministers, who have not even come to this hall to report, who have not been able to push themselves into this room in the last three years, have now spoken more in one day than for the past three years. Give MPs the right to speak, for in this way you are completely marginalizing the MPs themselves and jeopardizing the integrity of the National Assembly. Of course, when the Democratic Party of Serbia initiative comes, we will present everything we have and you will get a headache from it, but as things stand, we probably won't be expecting it, since the snap elections will be called before it comes to this, but let the MPs take part in the debate, because this is beginning to lose their sense. The ministers here are scrambling us with their praises. One of the ministers read love letters to him, or something else. I don't think the Serbian Parliament is the place for such inappropriate outflows of emotion and tenderness, but we should deal with the work report.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34247	The MP must, because of the content and call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, be warned, because I know very well that under Article 89, which regulates the course of the debate at the session of the Assembly, the Prime Minister and the members of the Government receive a word whenever requested and do not refer to restrictions on the duration of the hearing. So either you want me to break the Rules of Procedure and then, according to the new rules, reduce the rights of the members of the Government, or you think that by making a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to violate it. Simply, the debate is under Article 89, and I will repeat it four times. The moment they report for the word, a member of the government, a minister, a vice president or a prime minister, a proponent and an MP seeking a replica, has all three applicants for the word fully equal status. The only thing I said when it was such a situation for the first time was that it was natural for the motionor to, as someone who applied, in that case give the championship. You are asking me to reduce the rights of members of the government and the Prime Minister and I believe that you should be warned, as a People's MP, that it is inadmissible to seek a violation of the act by which the Assembly is working. What the ministers will talk about, as long as they are in respect of the Rules of Procedure, they have the right to speak. The moment they come out of the Rules of Procedure, I have a duty to warn them, to give them a warning, because in the debate they have the same rights as all the MPs. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, first reported for the replica, then MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been my duty to conduct a discussion here on your behalf with the Serbian Government ministers. This can be resolved, of course, in a different way, in view of democratic principles and the sense of demands for a vote of mistrust to the government. The government should listen to all the MPs, then come out and answer their arguments. That would be the right parliamentary democracy and respect for parliament. Now, we've come to the situation that we're being instrumentsized again by the government. In any case, I agree to represent all the other 250 MPs, while you endure, but other MPs will come in turn to say what they have. As regards these data, statistics, of course, which Mr Milosavljevic spoke of, as Minister of Trade and Tourism, Mr Milosavljevic, that is statistics. Why don't you guys talk about life for a minute? Don't tell me, which housewife, among other things, what the market is and what the store is, because this morning I got up at six o'clock, went to the butcher shop to buy meat, went to the store to buy the kids breakfast, went to the market to buy greenery, put on a cabbage to cook, left the kids just to fry it, and I know very well how much it costs. You tell me, since it's bread, because it's oil, because it's sugar, because it's coffee, because it's potatoes, because it's meat? You're talking about these topics and whether it's something you can live on. Can our citizens stand it? Let's say so, let's see this consumer basket, let's see these average 11 grand, see what's missing, the 970,000 unemployed, let's see these pensioners who, by the way, have reduced pensions, because now you have that half-and-a-half, half the cost of living, half the salary growth, and then their pensions are getting smaller, and then we talk and we cross the arguments. Please, statistics are no science, statistics are one liar. It's one methodology, it could be like this or something. Statistics and papers can't show us how we live, but only what we feel and know, is Mr. Bogdanovic, fighting every day to survive from first to first, believe me, it's hard for me and this delay of our salary for a week, because I don't know how to make up for that minus that I'm going to have on my current account when I get this first piece of this salary. If that's the way it is for us who live on pay, you might not live on wages, but there are us who live on this salary alone, so hard. I can't just put myself in the role of these 970,000 people who are jobless, who I just don't know how they survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34249	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic. National MP Nenad Bogdanovic, you have no right to a replica. Please take your parliamentary benches. At the same time, I have six announcements for the word, and by the Rules of Procedure, there will be word returns. So, according to the order previously said, Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, then MP Bojan Pajtic, MP Stevan Z. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two companies have been mentioned in the privatisation process, and therefore the public deserves a precise answer, what is the situation in Carnex and what is happening with the privatisation of Mitrovica from Sremska Mitrovica. As for Karnexa, it is an enterprise privatised by the previous model, the action fund did not sell the shares held by the action fund, but the small shareholders joined their actions and sold not "Small product", not to anyone else, but to a certain company called "Middlend", but what is very important, the sale of small shareholders was done on the Belgrade Stock Exchange and everyone had the opportunity and the right to participate in the competition, and the one who gave the best price, he also won. Therefore, Carnex has absolutely nothing to do with the ministry, the agency, or this privatisation model, but it is about the free right of shareholders to join their actions and sell via the Belgrade Stock Exchange. It's about Carnex, so it's true. As for the Mitros company in Sremska Mitrovica, I want to give full information to the public. On 8 October 2001, the Ministry launched an initiative to sell companies, i.e. the capital of Mitros. A decision on the privatisation method was made on November 20th 2001. The first tender was announced on July 3, 2002, a tender documentation was purchased by Kras from Slovenia. The potential investor didn't make the offer. The 13th of December 2002 held a session of the tender commission, which concluded that no bids had reached the prescribed deadline. Based on that, the tender committee has declared the tender a failure. The reasons for the failure of the first tender were - the excess employees, according to the financial advisor's assessment, three times more employed than necessary, a very poor financial situation, and later I will tell you what financial situation Mitros is in today, and then reduced market participation and very low productivity. The second tender was launched on June 13th 2003, a public call was issued. At a public call within the scheduled deadline, the tender documentation purchased the company "Probeko" from Zrenjanin and on July 25, 2003, when the final date for the submission of tenders was, only one bid arrived, bids from the consortium. Therefore, once again I confirm, nothing secret, everything is public, this data is on the site, after noon I will read to you every company that is in the privatisation, I will read to you who are the customers in the privatisation, how much is the offer, at which the price, so you will finally have full information, since it is evident that you are not reading the daily press, that you are not reading who the customers are, you are not reading the Internet, you are not looking at who the buyer is, you are not visiting the Privatisation Committee, which is regularly considering the reports of the Ministry and the Agency, and that is, of course, your right. But it's not the right to go out and tell a lie about this pay phone. So, the consortium is made up of "Probekom" from Zrenjanin, "Small product" D.o.o. from Surcin and C Market A.D. from Belgrade; the second session of the tender commission was held on 4 September 2003, presenting the offer to the "Probekom", "Krimo Product" and "C Market". The offered capital price is three euros, the investment programme is 5,400,000 euros in the first year and the minimum conditions of the social programme defined by the company Mitros have been accepted. A decision has been taken to start negotiations with individual bidders, i.e. with the sole bidder, afterwards the Minister for Economy and Privatisation formed in accordance with the law of the Commission for Negotiations with the sole bidder. Negotiations are currently under way with the sole bidder, within which the Commission is seeking to improve the parts of the bid itself. You'll be pleasantly surprised to see what transaction price will be achieved, compared to the number offered. Let me just tell you about your information, given that there were articles in the paper -- it's sold for a handful of Mitros, and we at the warehouse don't know how much we have, my office has received a memo from all unions, management, and by the municipality signed, where it's required to speed up the conclusion of the contract, regardless of the sale price, because the company is in an extremely difficult situation. For days and months, it has been blocked, and unfortunately, since there are intubulations on objects, there is also a commission that has been sent to assess the facilities, for sale of property, which means shutting down businesses, shutting down jobs, and not privatisation and the continuation of the company's work. On the course, as well as on the results of the negotiations, a contract has been signed, you will all have the opportunity to receive information at the regular sessions of the Privatisation Committee of this assembly, which once a month discusses the reports of the Ministry and the Agency. If you don't want to listen, it's not the Ministry and the Agency's problem, it's your right, as is your right to have full information. Now that you have it, take it out in public. As Minister of Industry and Privatisation, I'm not going to go out for this pay phone to tell empty stories, I'll always go out and react, tell the public what the truth is. So it's up to you how many times you're gonna look at me for this pay phone, not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34251	National MPs Nenad Bogdanovic and Branislav Grubaski sought a replica of the presentation of the National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, noting that they consider it an insult to say they do not live on their salary and that it speaks for them. This is not the basis for a re-police, with the fact that the MP has no right, except for his MP group to stand out as a protector of interest and I ask one and the other MPs to understand all of this, so that this interpretation of the right to replica once again would make it impossible for the MPs to participate in the principle debate, because it would seem to be a precedent that everything is interpreted as right of replication, and the MP, I really ask for attention when he says that he does not live here on salary and that he protects the interests of all 250, she is a representative of the SRS's proposing group, and there is her right as a proposing. National MP Bojan Pajtic, MP Stevan Z. Guduric, and Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34252	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that the opposition's representatives would be most responsible if the ministers did not respond, because at that time, a flat-rate assessment of the work of each ministry could be done and we could hear again about this pay phone that statistics are a liar. It is acceptable for us that Mrs Pop-Lazic, I am sorry that it is not true, lover, and that statistics is a liar, but the problem with statistics is that she does not deal with the general impression, that she does not deal with personal, individual impressions, but that she deals with numbers, that she deals with exact data. The problem with statistics is that statistics in September 2000 were the same as now, so even when you were in power, the same data, the same criteria, are the same criteria, and the same criteria are today. It's a problem with statistics and statistics unfortunately shows a real state of affairs. What anyone would like or what his personal impression is, it's a personal perception, and I believe that you gentlemen lived better while you were in power, and we don't have the habit of misusing power. Here you can speak individually with MPs, so you will see that their material position has not improved, even private life is certainly much worse than they have so far, because they are forced to listen to you for days, and that what you say is not the most appropriate thing to the truth. I signed up for the replica of my colleague, Dean Michael. Namely, counterpart Mihajlov presented to Minister Milovanovic, and the only minister of Milovanovic read the letters here, it is sad that Mr. Mihajlov is coming back for the word, I would never again appear in the room that I said what he said, that the love letters to Mr. Milovanovic are being written by the following signatories -- the President of the Holy Archaeological Synod, the patriarch of Serbian Mr. Pavle, the president of the Islamic Community of Mufti Belgrade-Hamdija Jusufspahic and Stanislav Hochevar, Belgrade Archbishop and Mitrovica, president of the Bishopial Conference of Serbia-Montenegro. I believe that it is not my personal position as a priest's son to feel that I would easily say this contempt for such a thesis and I believe that it is the impression of every decent man in this country and every decent MP in this House of Nationals. Letters sent by senior dignitaries of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Community and the Catholic Church in Serbia-Montenegro are the natural result of what this government has done and it is natural for the SRS to rebel when it talks about religion, to find excuses that the religion was introduced because of Mr. Gaše Knezevic, so that he could introduce civil education, and that the DSS is scrupulously talking about the highest church dignitaries in this country. And why is that? Because late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic insisted that religious science be introduced to Serbia and that, gentlemen of God, after 60 years has been introduced into this country. The DSS's position at the time was that it was not in accordance with the law and the Constitution, because, that was the only explanation, it was quite legal. Many archaeologists of the Serbian Orthodox Church have called it a Pharisee relationship and said -- see, it was very useful for them to appear in the monasterys and that their entire campaign of presidential candidates takes place in the convents, and it is not in line with the Constitution and the law for religious introduction. The SRS was in power, so when it was in power, there was no talk of the introduction of religion, nor were they at that time in favour of religious science, or they advocated in principle, and the religious science was, of course, not introduced because it was not the right time. Please don't abuse at least the churches. Churches are the institutions that are implanted deepest in the beings of the people who live in this space, and this is not the place, neither the time nor the writing of the patriarch, archbishop and muffija love letters to anyone, and I ask that we no longer hear these things about this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34253	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Mihailov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34254	First, Mr Pajtic had no basis for replica, because I did not mention the DOS, nor him, but the government and the minister, and in front of the government, according to Mr. Zivkovic, can speak as Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zarko Korac. That's the first thing. The second thing, I am surprised that the Rules of Procedure has been re-injured, that Mr Pajtic - who is betrayed as a priestly child, and which is true, has allowed himself so much, and you have not warned him from this pay phone - insults the religious community and the Serbian Orthodox Church, that he is to this extent banalizing what is being said behind this assembly, that he distorts what other MPs say and puts into the mouth of the MPs what they did not say. It can be looked at in a stenogram. Love letters to ministers are letters of unions being read here, and those are love letters to be received and those are the ministers who kicked the workers out of work. The letters of religious dignitaries, and in a way that perhaps some corrupt imagination wants to interpret, is something that is totally inadmissible. Next time, please protect all religious communities from these low insinuations that we can hear. I think it's your duty as chairman. Secondly, your obligation, as chairman, is to return Mr. Pitiæ to primary school and learn what the word irony means.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34255	People's MP, this is the second time you've broken the Rules of Procedure by pointing out a violation of the Rules of Procedure without a basis and using it for a replica you have no right to. Let's consult a stenogram, that's where I agree. The only letters read today in this room are letters read by the minister of religion in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vojislav Milovanovic, who was sent to him by churches and religious communities. It's in the stenogram today, November 5th in the morning part of the work. Please, in addition to having given you a warning for the use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure, do not do so anymore, because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and requires a reaction from the chair. A violation of the Rules of Procedure? Very carefully, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34256	You very carefully should respect the Rules of Procedure and when you want to replicate to come down for a pay phone, not from there. That's one.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34257	People's messenger, I give you a warning. After being warned by the chairman of these congregations, I refer you to the reading of the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 84(2), the obligation to give all the necessary instructions to the MPs. No one can interrupt the speaker except for the chairman and chair of the obligation, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the MP utters an injury to the Rules of Procedure, to explain whether there has been a breach or not. Otherwise, Article 97 regulates the right to the replica of the MPs and Article 96(2) says: "In breach of the Rules of Procedure, no decisions of the National Assembly and of the President of the National Assembly are considered to be made on the basis of the discretionary powers provided for in this Rules of Procedure." Except we're in the name of tolerance... I'd like you to continue when I'm done. People's MP, you've finished this exhibit. I'm giving you a second warning and I'm asking you to take the envoy's bench. National MP Dragan Shormaz throws himself out of the bench and I give him a warning, because the discarding of MPs from the bench is forbidden to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has the People's MP Stevan Ž. Gudurić, and the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic. After him, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Slobodan Milosavljevic. National MP Dragan Todorovic also asked for a replica of MP Bojan Pajtic's presentation, as he finds it offensive that Bojan Pajtic has previously used them in power. Since such a kind of insult is not tolerated in the presentation of the Parliament of the people Gordana Pop-Lazic, I ask that, apart from not being according to the Rules of Procedure, we do not consider it a basis for replication, and Dragan Todorovic does not have the right to replication. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34258	You broke the Rules of Procedure because I asked the Rules of Procedure for a word before Mr. Dejan Mihajlov and you read that after Mr. Pitiæ, Stevan G. Gudurić will speak. You've also violated the Rules of Procedure relating to Article 28 and Article 89 because these days, since we've been discussing the Government, I've been mostly here in the O.R. I'm not saying I'm 100%, because some people are really hard to listen to at the length of the exposure. I'm not talking about quality, only in length, but the practice for these three years has been here to say that it's the MP and that one, after him, that one and that one, or the minister's talking, and that one's talking. We have not heard in these days that neither you nor Mrs Micic, after some name, have said that the MP is speaking, and he who is next, so he can wait three days if, meanwhile, all the ministers and the heads of the parliamentary groups are being worked out. You have never read or perhaps read once when I wasn't in the O.R., you read that and that MP, because of all those who are on the list in some order whether one has spoken or not, thanks to the way you and Mrs. Micic are conducting the session. It certainly doesn't comply with the practice of this three years here, because I guess something and practice means, not just a naked word written in this Rules of Procedure. It says here in article 89, in which order it goes, but you have not read any of the fellow Members of Parliament who have applied or who, according to this famous Rules of Procedure, have been obliged by the bosses to report to come to some sort of order to talk. So there's a violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part, and it's certainly because there's been some practice here for three years, which you now have to say for five, seven or nine ministers to tell us the story, you don't respect, so we're not even, because if we were equal, then we would very easily determine that what Mr. Minister is saying is probably true. We would also say that in Beocino of 1,100 workers, who no longer work, of those 900 and change in the Beocinian cement factory, they have 15% higher salary than they have no salary, so it's very easy to make something this big. If I get 50 workers fired from 100 at my firm, when I raise my salary by 30%, they're pounding their feet on how well they are, but those 50 have nothing to live on. That's what we're talking about here, and that's what we need to compare it to. It's very simple to add up grandmothers and frogs, but they can't add up. You did, ma'am, violate the Rules of Procedure and President Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34259	National MP, the second part of your presentation is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but since it is called, I will repeat that they are under Article 89. The Rules of Procedure, even in the debate of the government members and the Prime Minister, the Proposer, an MP who seeks the right to replication and an MP who utters a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Equal, no order. The order can only be compared to when the chairman, the secretary or vice-president who helps the chairman, ahead of the order of hand-lifting. I request a meeting of the Administrative Board which will determine whether, in the event of a word being given, there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you that when you express a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you remain consistent without using it as a replica of any MP or minister. The debate began on Monday at 17.40 p.m. and the MPs who received the word were National MP Branko Pavlovic, MP Zivko Selakovic, were in turn MP Petar Petrovic and MP Miroslav Christodulo, but since they were not in the hall the word was received, according to the president, the MP of the people, Zaharija Trnavcevic. When we're done, and please, you've said a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so let's listen to the explanations and that's an obligation under the Rules of Procedure. When we have finished our word, those who have already applied will then be given the word of MPs Petar Petrovic, MP Miroslav Christodulo, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, MP Vladimir Garčević, MP Zoran Angelkovic, MP Milan Radulovic, and this is the first seven reported. That's the order in the principle debate. The moment neither the minister, nor the promoter, nor anyone seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure, comes the order of the MP in principle. National MP Petar Petrovic People's MPs, you have to decide whether we respect the Rules of Procedure or not... [[elevator in the O.R.]] You will come to the order of the People's Messenger, you will receive a word in the debate in principle. The word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You'll get a word in principle, most normal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34260	Thank you. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that is precisely this article 89, because the chair of these sessions, and Mrs Comic and Mrs Micic, are absolutely abused by this Rules of Procedure. Not only do the government representatives speak, it is one story, but they consciously ignore the fact that the MPs who are on the list in this room and do not want to call them when they should, in order to speak, be able to state their parliamentary group's position in relation to this debate. Here, yesterday, fellow Popovic has been waiting two days to speak, not giving him a word. A colleague, Angelkovic, was before Mr Trnavčević yesterday, was skipped, as well as other colleagues, we have a list. Why does it take the chairman to explain or punish himself for violating the Rules of Procedure? We have been in this congregation for three years and we know well enough to interpret the Rules of Procedure. If a colleague of Trnavcevic had something to do, then that's one thing. It happens that a colleague asks the chairman and gets approval if other colleagues don't mind. That's not bad practice. There is no rational reason for people to skip the list, and for others who are not in line to get a word and wrap it up in one respect of the Rules of Procedure. Not true, counterpart Zoran Angelkovic didn't get his word yesterday, and if it was supposed to be the championship, he should have got the word. counterpart Petar Petrovic of the Serbian Unity Party did not get the word, and if it was in the order of the championship, he should have received the word. You explain to us why you do not want to allow MPs of the National Assembly to speak about this item on the agenda, why you do not respect the list that was set out on Friday afternoon. That's what you explain to us. Why are you breaking the Rules of Procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34261	Article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly reads: "After the opening of the search of each item of the agenda of the National Assembly, they have the right to speak in accordance with the following order and time period: the acting representative, or the authorised representative of the group of motionaries, who gets the word when requested and does not refer to the restrictions on the duration of the hearing; the rapporteur of the committee responsible, who has the right to speak for up to 10 minutes, and during the search, has the right to get one more word over a five-minute period, if this requires a search warrant, which is decided by the President of the National Assembly; the MP who has taken an opinion at the session of the Committee, who has the right to speak once for five minutes; the president, or representative of the Members of the group, who has the right to speak for up to 20 minutes, with which he can share this time in two parts of the 10 minutes - for the opening and final statement; the MPs, in exchange, according to what they are to the motion, to the motion, to which they are to which they are to the motion. The Prime Minister and members of the government get the word when they ask for it and do not refer to it as a restriction on the duration of the exposure." Not once in giving for a word, except in a case pointed out by Mr. Stevan G. Gudurić, and that is why I am requesting a meeting of the Administrative Committee, because his name is mentioned, no Rules of Procedure has been broken. The fact that I repeat is that the MPs who have been reported, following reports of a search warrant for the government of the Republic of Serbia's resolution, receive a word in order, when none of the others who have the right to participate in the search does not report a word. I assume that at the meeting of the Administrative Board and your objection will be discussed. The word has been given by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34262	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Comic, with all due respect, I don't think you're really right about this case. At no time during yesterday's debate, it was called out for an SS MP's address, Mr. Petar Petrovic. You have harshly violated Article 91(2). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, because you did not allow him to speak, were called yesterday, to his request, and without consulting the previous MPs who were in line, Mr. Zahari Trnavcevic. Mr. Petar Petrovic was just announced that he would speak, but he was not renamed. He was here in the O.R. the whole time. So, please, I want to believe there's no bad intentions with you. You've probably made a mistake, but it's human admission to error. Also, Mr. Zoran Angelkovic was all the time and he was before Zechariah Trnavcevic, but he was not called. So if you're wrong, admit the mistake, it's human, because nothing's scary. Please don't say that someone wasn't in the O.R. when he was in the O.R. and all the time he and I were discussing before Mr. Trnavčević and during his debate, commenting that you were wrong when you were giving someone the word beyond the order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34263	People's MP, I agree with you that human admission is a mistake and I have no problem with that at all. There are no mistakes. The MP was in the O.R. when MP Zechariah Trnavcevic spoke, but he was not in the O.R. when I called him to speak in order. Let me, listen, be parliamentary, I listened to you as you spoke. [[Sagar.]] Wait a minute, I'm talking, I have a word. Another thing, then, article 89 says: People's MPs get the word alternately, as to whether they support or dispute the proposal. The MP of the people, Zechariah Trnavcevic, was the first MP who was against, was because there were several who pleaded not to trust the government. The third thing, the right service list, let me tell you, the right service list, but I'm keeping an eye on whether the service did it right or not. She did according to that article. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one more thing to tell you, from today I will not respect your requests, as you had yesterday to speak first Dragan Todorovic from the SPS, then Zoran R. Angelkovic, because the first time I let DOS get in your way, and you don't mind when I make a concession. So you're absolutely not parliamentary and you're wrong. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, what? Based on what replica? (Zoran R. Angelkovic: I was in the O.R. You mentioned I wasn't in the O.R. But it's just an explanation, I didn't insult you, you didn't get the word. No, I didn't say you weren't in the O.R., you asked to change the order. Mr. Ljubisa Maravic asked for a change in order between you and Dragan Todorovic. It's no offense. You didn't get the word. Please leave the pay phone, you didn't get the word. (Zoran R. Angelkovic: You can steal whenever you want, that's your right. I'll take the Rules of Procedure now. ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic; for your information, Mr Obradovic, Parliament has not worked for three years, but in two months it will be two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34264	How the judiciary and the investigative judge will determine the theft in the vote. That's how you did it, and that's what the Serbian citizens are going to grade in the election the other day. Don't be afraid. I went out to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 97th and this 89th. Mrs. Micic, Branko Pavlovic, Zivko Selakovic, Petar Petrovic, Tomica Kitanovic, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Vladimir Garčević, Zoran Angelkovic, then Zaharija Trnavcevic, sorted by order for or against. First in, second in, third in, fourth in, fifth in, sixth in, seventh in, eighth out. Don't explain something to us that can't be explained. You didn't let your colleagues speak. On the other hand, you gave Mr. Trnavčević the right to the championship. We're not contesting that. You don't have to lie to this congregation and to the citizens that everything's been fine now. It wasn't right. You broke the Rules of Procedure. You should know you didn't let your colleagues speak, you gave the other one a head start. Why? That's a different story. I said it was a good practice for colleagues to ask for a word to speak, and that's not controversial, but don't tell the truth to the people of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34265	First of all, I'm not telling the truth, and second of all, you asked for a change of order yourself, and thirdly, this is the list that makes the service, and I have the authority to call to determine the order in Article 89 and Article 28, the authority of the President of the Assembly. (Zarko Obradovic, from the place: It is not true. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) It is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the Administrative Board will declare itself. There is absolutely no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Stevan G. Guduric, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34266	You hurt Article 28, because you need to lead this congregation properly. Just to determine what was true today, read your statement today when the session began, why Zaharija Trnavčević spoke and what you had just justified, so you will see that you have carefully visited the truth. If it's any different, I deserve to be punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34267	You're going to determine who deserved the punishment? Gentlemen, I think it should take us almost three years to learn what they are and to learn to respect the Rules of Procedure. I repeat, article 89 says MPs are getting an alternate word, as they support or dispute the proposal. So the MPs said they were for not trusting the government. First MP and that's gentlemen, there should be some respect, the oldest MP among us, who has given me a written request to speak because he is absent today. I went out to meet all the parliamentary groups when they talked about it. From now on, I won't. Replication rights are issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34268	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, came forward with a replica of counterpart Mihajlov who did not unfortunately have enough dignity to admit that he had made a mistake at one time, that he had taken out a scrawny assessment of the letters sent by the patriarch, Serbian Mr. Pavle, the archbishop of Belgrade, Mr. Hochevar and the mufti of Belgrade Mr. Hamdija Jusufspahic, when he called them love letters. Mr. Mihajlov later said in his injury to the Rules of Procedure that love letters to ministers, letters of unions being read here, and that they were love letters to be received, and those ministers who kicked workers out of work. It's a terrible lie, because Mr. Michael said in his presentation that ministers read love letters. The lady who read the union letters is not a minister, Mr. Milovanovic is the only minister who has read the letters. The second thing, on the basis of Mr. Mihajlov's beginning, "I'm surprised that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, that Mr. Pajtic, who is being betrayed, is a priestly child etc." I am not betraying myself as a priestly child and what is a deep problem and I am deeply sorry, is that I have allowed myself to mention my origin, I have allowed the situation of Mr. Michael taking my father into his mouth, I will apologize to my father, and that is probably the biggest mistake since I've been here in Parliament, and I will never call on my origin again. Mr. Mihajlov said that the patriarch of Serbia, the mufti of Belgrade and the archbishop of Belgrade wrote love letters to Mr. Milovanovic. The letters of the union that were read were read after Mr. Michael said that about this pay phone in the first place. So, first it was all read, only Minister Milovanovic read those letters, and then Mr. Mihajlov addressed and only afterwards were the union letters read. So, sometimes I'm really embarrassed by some of our colleagues, and if Mr. Michaels isn't ashamed, I'll be embarrassed in his name.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34269	The right to replicate MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34270	You've confused the order a little bit, and Mr. Pajtic had one line with Mr. Mihajlov, so I picked up Mr. Pajtic's line, but since you've determined this order, this line also refers to what Mr. Pajtic said earlier. In Michael's replica, he brought out something about the SRS. He talked about some natural law and something that was expected of the SRS as a promoter, and on the subject of religious and civic education. He carried out a dangerous insinuation and deeply hurt the religious feelings of more than 36,000 people in this Serbia, members of the Serbian Radical Party, who are independent in their religious commitment. They can be religious, choose their own church and do not allow Mr. Pajtic to interpret what Mrs. Pop-Lazic said from this booth for the first time in her address today. She said and confirmed what the minister had previously said, that no party had made any problem when it comes to the work of the religion ministry. She gave recognition to all parties in the understanding of some of the actions led by the Ministry of Religion. Mrs Pop-Lazic only pointed out that it is degutant that the payphones and letters are read from this pay phone and were fenced that in this way she did not want to offend any religious community and allegorically interpreted what the Prime Minister said at the beginning of this debate was the greatest credit to Gaša Knezevic for introducing the religious science. He's so introduced to the religious science that we've received a civil challenge. It's Mr. Gaše Knezevic's Lightmotive. A citizen's education was thrown in like a coward's egg. That's the criticism. (National MP Dragisa Marinkovic throws out of place. I'd like you to listen a little bit. If synnervous, share the flyers outside. I don't throw anyone away and I didn't deserve you to throw it at me. Hold on a second. I know, you're leaving, it's hard, it's not easy, believe me, everything opens up after that, anything can happen and I understand that anxiety. What we, as a party, have in terms of religion and religion, does not deserve Mr Pajtic to belittled and criticized, according to his programme, the statutes and feelings of members of the SRS. Besides, it's a very bad scenario for you to read telegrams here. God forgive me for making a parallel: how about the Minister of Labour comes out and reads telegrams of workers who support him, and then you make an analogy - how about the Home Secretary reads telegrams about how he's supported by criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34271	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34272	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, having returned us to the debate on the effect of the Ministry of Faith, I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Faith, given the fact that it seems to me, since 1972, when the Episcopal of Žički Vasilija was arrested, no church dignitary has been arrested, nor has a court dispute been conducted against him. Now several episcopes are being prosecuted. So much for this "new democracy", which has some relation to church dignitaries and churches. To remind the minister of his merits, the merits of this government and the respect of the Serbian Orthodox Church, that on February 1st of this year, police forces searched Patriarchia, that on February 3rd, the patriarch, Serbian Mr Paule, sent a protest letter to the government and some ministers, and that none of them came forward. So the public doesn't know about this fact at all. The question is, what were they looking for there? Also on March 24th, police, armed to the teeth, entered the altar in the seat of the Mileshev eparchy. What were the police doing there? It is the relationship of this, you say, "first democratic government" to the church, to the Serbian Orthodox Church and to church dignitaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34273	We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. I apologize, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac, the minister of construction and urbanism has come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34274	Dear Madam President, Mrs Micic, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to you who supported and voted in favour of the Law on Planning and Construction, on 22 April this year, the results of this ministry's work are clearly visible. In fact, it's been less than five months, but it's enough to see that the law has come to life. He took effect, as you know, on March 13th. We wanted this system and reform law to change everything you've left us in the legacy, those who are now critical of the government's work. If the law was passed by citizens, it is best seen these days in order, where citizens apply for legalisation, so what you did not allow them in the earlier period; that it was accepted by all municipalities. As you know, we introduced the first time punishments for administration and bureaucracy to eliminate corruption in this area. This is also seen by the adopted general plans in the largest cities, according to the revised plans, and this means the possibility of faster construction in the coming period and the inflow of larger investments in our country. In addition, I can say concrete numbers, or what the Ministry has done, or where and for which capital facilities have issued building approvals. I'll just mention some. These are the "Horgosh" border crossing, Nis Airport, the parish house of St. Sava's Temple, the Belgrade Highway - Novi Sad. In only eight major cities: Sudotica, Sombor, Zrenjanin, Pančevo, Smederevo, Jagodina, Čačak and Kruševac, 2,000 acts were issued on urban conditions and 1,500 approvals for construction. At the same time, around 300 building approvals were issued in Belgrade. So, in less than five months, it's obvious this law has come to life. As the opposition here is one of the main issues of legalization, in the part in which it is discussed in the Law on Planning and Construction, I will look back a little on that and answer some of the questions that have been asked. Obviously, we have an apparent problem with illegal construction. This is the dowry of the previous government, whose radicals were coalition partners and accomplices, which by its actions, by its laws and hastened this problem. If we seek to enter the European Union, we must legally list all the assets we have, so that we know what we are entering the European Union and what is ours. Why isn't radicals responding to legalization? Because they're going to come out of sight with all their machinations that they've done. The solutions set out in the previous request did not produce almost any results in the legalisation process, just because the old legalisation law was designed only for facilities that were illegally built, or reconstructed by 4 November 1995. After this deadline, according to the law, although it was passed in 1997, it was not possible to legalise. This puts them in an unequal position, first of all, of lawless builders. This has also led to a wide range of abuses by the state towards its citizens. Furthermore, the old law provided for the possibility of issuing only temporary construction permits, to bring land to the intended purpose, with the owner of the facility, in the event of its destruction, having no right to compensation. Also, the old law, in addition to not predicting the possibility of granting land on which these lawless buildings were built by direct contract, did not prescribe deadlines in which a list of illegally built buildings, as well as deadlines for the adoption of municipal legalisation programmes, thus making the legalisation process infinite and extremely inefficient. These are the reasons that in the Republic, according to some estimates, according to this law, there is a legalized 3 percent of the illegally built objects. The new Law on Planning and Construction provides for the possibility of legalisation in an efficient and legally valid manner. Mr. Prime Minister here has already said that legalization, under the new Law on Planning and Construction, is designed for the sake of the citizens themselves. So it's not a robbery. Conversely, citizens will achieve multiple benefits by legalisation: 1) will increase the value of their facilities; 2) legally booked facilities can be legally inherited; 3) legal facilities can be sold legally - validly; 4) for a registered facility a mortgage loan can be obtained. So the multiple benefit, first of all, is for the citizens. Once again, our goal is not to tear down objects. Conversely, our goal is in the book. Only in communism was property social, that means everyone's and nobody's. Now we see that this principle is also supported by radicals. Private property is uncircumcised and society is as rich as rich individuals. That's why we're fighting to get everyone who has those facilities and books. The citizens understood our messages well, and I can tell what the latest data is today. For example, 2,100 illegally built objects have been reported in Sombor, estimated to have about 3,000, so 70%. 1,082 was reported in Sombor. It was supposed to be about 700, so 154%, and there's Mrs. Pop-Lazic right. There's a higher percentage reported than the ones we thought existed in certain cities. This means that citizens are more zealous, even than inspection. So far, 12,410 has been reported in Novi Sad, supposed to have about 20,000, so 62%. In total, in the 20 largest cities in Serbia, it is approximately 38,000 illegally built buildings, and up to now, around 90,000 illegally built buildings have been reported in Belgrade, compared to 97,000 per inspection list, so more than 90% of citizens have applied to Belgrade for legalisation. We also have examples, let's say, that the Vracar reported 674, and we thought that there were about 400 illegally erected objects. I'm just saying that in two days, October 30 and 31, about 1,000 illegally built buildings were reported in Palillula. So, this process will certainly end successfully as citizens are, and then the municipalities are in order and we will monitor it, not only as a ministry, but also as representatives of all major cities, so we will certainly be successful. Once again, I advise those who listen to the Radical Party and the DSS not to do so. As I said, their MPs applied for legalisation, and now they're hiding me, fearing Mr. Mihajlov, the Martian and Mrs. Pop-Lazic, asking what to do next with those applications. So, only by applying for legalisation is it enters the process and avoids getting a solution to the collapse. It's in the interest of the citizens themselves to apply. There are eight days left, quite enough to hand over the application. We said it was only enough to apply, and that further legalisation process would provide other papers, which are geodetic footage and evidence of resolved property-legislative relations. Therefore, it is not true that there is no need for proof of ownership of the plot. It is known that many judicial proceedings are ongoing, so it is not necessary to wait for their completion to apply for legalisation. When this trial is over, the legal process will continue. Legalisation funds don't go into the Republic budget. The funds are being poured into the municipal registers. It will be invested in land management, i.e. infrastructure. It means building streets, waterways, sewers, schools, kindergartens. So they're coming back to the citizens again. It should be pointed out, since there are some MPs here who are criticising the law who are not clear, or the SRS is spreading false news, that all costs paid by citizens in the legalisation process are minimised. The Republic tax is 100 dinars. The municipalities also have their own fees. I could say, say, in Zemun, there's this 75-dollar tax. There's also 75 dinars on Chukarica. There are also those who charge 1,500 dinars, let's say Sombor, but we saw that in Sombor, no matter what the tax is, 154% are reported. In addition, the project of a executed facility contains only minimal technical data. For example, for technical documentation, for an object used and for which no project documentation exists, the cost of making the project is 1.17 euros per metre square, according to the Serbian Engineering Chamber, which is far less than the price of making a new project and that data that has been released here, that is about 500 euros. So that's about 120 euros for a 100-square house. No additional documentation is required for those owners of the facilities already at their disposal and the project will be accepted. Prices of land arrangements are in line with the moment in which our citizens and society are located, and I am pleased to find that all cities and municipalities have accepted the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to exceed 30,000 dinars for housing up to 90 m square meters for cities in Serbia, or 50,000 dinars for Belgrade, for border areas. For example, in other cities in Serbia, for example in Subotica, the lowest price in border areas is 39.5 dinars per metre square, i.e. for a 100 square-square house, one time when 3.950 dinars are paid. In Čačka there are 40 dinars, in Smederev there are 38 dinars, and in Belgrade, as we said, for the sixth zone, it is 450 dinars per metre square, or 45,000 dinars per 100 square metre. One of the more expensive cities is Sombor as well. There's 1,400 dinars per metre square, but there's a change in course and there's going to be a review, but I say once again, we've seen that it's applied for 50% more illegal builders than it's estimated to have in Somboro. That's the answer to the question that's been asked here - how come there are more registered than the number recorded here? So, citizens are safer even than inspectors, more registered than the inspectors have listed. We said that this price is minimal and that really no one can offer more favourable terms than that. As far as videos and ads are concerned, no money from the republican budget has been spent. The entire media campaign is supported by donors, the World Bank and the GTC. The leading TV houses, such as Studio B, Politics, RTS, BK, Pink and B92, as well as the daily newspaper "News", "Today" and "Politics" supported this very important project for citizens and for the state and we thank them for it. Thanks to donations, the United States provided first of all equipment and software for 64 municipalities to apply for legalization. This is proof that this law understands and supports the whole world because it is consistent with their practice and expectations. He will, above all, contribute to the inflow of foreign investment into our country, as he will be very quick to obtain approval for construction. Mrs. Pop-Lazic shared the land here in public and in secret. We have divided into public and other, with the aim of diversifying the general interest of the individual. In secret, which Mrs Pop-Lazic states, it is their patent. It's the land they sold and resold citizens against plans, contrary to the law, assigned by their own arch. Radicals do not support this law, but apparently they have violated the previous one, which clearly tells us that they are for the rule of lawlessness. In every municipality where they were in power, they carried out the will, assigned locations beyond the plan. I have to show one of the locations here, which you can see, this is a typical building from a time of radical government, built on other people's land. We also invite this owner to apply for legalisation, but he will only be able to legalize this facility once he solves property-legal relations. So when he solves property-legal relations, then he'll be able to legalize himself. Because of the relationship they had, above all in Zemun, citizens are now in an uninvited position, and they have left us to solve the problems of these citizens, which they have made. They deceived the citizens when they were selling them ice-free infrastructures, and now they're being double-crossed by calling for a boycott of legalization. Therefore, all those who miss the legal deadline on the recommendation of radicals should address radicals for all the consequences arising from the law. The law has created assumptions to address problems that have not been solved before, he has obliged municipalities to bring urban plans within a certain period. The result of the previous government's rule is uncovered by Serbia's plans. In fact, only 20% of Serbia had a useful urban plan. Some of the problems encountered are, in some cases, irreparable. That is why the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction participated in the financing of 35 general plans for the poorest municipalities, 24 in Serbia and 11 in Vojvodina at the end of last year. Plans have been drawn up and followed by their adoption procedures, thus creating a plan base for the development of these cities. Last Friday, the proponent for the government's resolution found that the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia was abolished and that there is no longer a plan for Serbia's territory. In the transitional and final provisions of the law, it is defined that until the adoption of a spatial development strategy, the Space Plan is applied. So he hasn't been abolished and he's being applied until the strategy is adopted and he will apply. At the same time, it was found that a new plan act was introduced called - a development strategy, and it is not a new document, but a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia, and such documents have and apply all European countries, including countries from our nearest environment. For all those who deal with spatial planning, apply experiences more developed than we do, such a document is not some, but is indeed new and modern. It defines the basic objectives of a country's spatial development, which will define the real frameworks of our spatial development in contrast with the valid, unrealistic and inapplicable Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. The strategy will treat Serbia as part of Europe, not as an isolated island, where those who are self-sufficient live. The law, as well as the regulation on the content and design of the planning documents, have sufficiently defined its content, while all other elements related to the production will be defined by a production programme currently being prepared at the Republic Spatial Planning Agency. Since expertise has probably run out on some arguments about spatial planning criticism, Mrs Pop-Lazic attacked the Republic spatial planning agency, although she did not know what was wrong with it. Of course, there is nothing wrong, since the Agency was created by the Institute for Physical Planning and Urbanism, it existed earlier in the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction, which has existed for six years and, by its work in 2002 and 2003, justified the need for the establishment of the Agency. The fact is that radicals, while being left out in the Republic government, were so engaged in Serbia, its interest, that they didn't even know that there was a Office for Spatial Planning and Urbanism, even though they had a deputy building minister at the time. The results of the work of such a government in the area of spatial planning cannot be mentioned because they are not present. It is noteworthy enough that only one spatial plan was adopted in Serbia between 1990 and 2000, which I have already mentioned, it is for the flow of the accumulation of "Bovljana". That is enough to say how much the previous government has done in the area of spatial planning. In the past 12 months, the government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction and the Agency, has adopted seven spatial plans, or far more than in the last ten years. It is a regional spatial plan of the Kolubar district, hit by an earthquake, a spatial plan of the Presevo border crossing area, as well as spatial plans for all five sections of Corridor 10 through Serbia. Of the seven above, five spatial plans were adopted under the new law. At the same time, it should be noted that there are eight other spatial plans to be adopted in the Agency next year. The Law on Planning and Construction restores pride to construction engineers, architects, urbanists, geodesys, spatial planners and all professions dealing with construction by establishing Serbia's Engineering Chamber for the first time in 60 years. More than 16,000 personal license engineers have registered so far and a total of 6,000 has been issued. Serbia's engineering chamber not only licenses its members, but also has an obligation to take care of the development of the profession. This introduces responsibility, and anyone who wrongs the profession has to bear the consequences. A license has already been revoked to the surveillance authority for the accident that took place in Novi Sad, when three workers died. When we talk about laws, I have to mention the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Time and Cataster and entered the right to immovableity; this law is open throughout the door to private geodetic practice and so far has been registered around 400 private geodetic companies in Serbia. The site of immovableity was built for part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. for 1,537 catastrian municipalities, which is 30% of the total number of cadastrian municipalities. A total of 5.137,940 cadastar plots were entered. A diameter was also made for 769 parts of the Catastrian municipalities, to register social enterprises in the immobility cadastre. For Kragujevac and Novi Sad, an information system has been established that enables the Internet to see the data of the real estate catastra, as well as the Institute for Construction in Novi Sad, and the Department for Urbanism and Construction and for property-legal relations in the town of Kragujevac. There is also an increase in the number of administrative cases relating to the registration of rights. It is shown that trade, first of all to real estate, is becoming legal and as regards the catastra of immovableity, and that is also the goal, not only of our ministry, but also of the Ministry of Finance. As for social enterprises, about 1,470 companies were processed in the privatisation process and around 16,000 facilities were registered in the context of the job. Let me just say a little bit what we did in other sectors. Namely, the 10,000-seat project in 2000, which began by the former government through the country's Renewal Directorate and which was only a marketing move, behind which only the foundations and debts of the construction companies remained, was the largest illegal construction. We returned the debts, restored the bombed objects from the sixth category and headed for intensive housing. Building, as a specific and very significant form of social consumption, is on the rise after stagnation, thanks to the consolidation of a number of construction firms dealing with high-building and the growing support of banks. The allocated budget for the reconstruction and construction programme was implemented through Serbia's Building Directorate. During the year 2000, they directly affected the settlement of the debt found to construction companies, which threatened to destroy this activity in Serbia. The Directorate has joined in harmonising the construction with the Construction Planning Act, because all the facilities that started without a building permit have now been approved for construction. A total of 650 apartments were completed in 2002, which is about 44,000 m2 of area at 28 locations in 26 cities of the Republic of Serbia. In 2003, 1,500 more apartments were built, so about 105,000 m2, and by the end of the year 1,000 to 1,200 apartments were completed. Currently, 600 apartments between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Building Directorate are being handed over. Plans for 2004 envision the construction of 2,300 more apartments, with around 1,450 and 1,000, respectively, being handed over to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Within the framework of a housing building for the care of families whose residential facilities were destroyed in the bombing, 32 apartments were built in Aleksinec, and a building with 12 apartments in gurpria. Bridges have also been restored, primarily on the loop in Belgrade towards Panchev. On an earthquake affected by the Kolubar district, about 251 buildings were built last year, and that is about 30,000 square meters. Rehabilitation is under way at 70 facilities under DC 90 and facilities of social and material infrastructure have also been built, with five schools, six streets, four churches, four hospitals, health homes, roads, bridges, three trafo stations, one hospital and a seismological station. At the initiative of the Ministry of Urban Affairs and Buildings, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a Regulation on addressing the housing needs of elected, appointed and employees of state-owned assets. No one has received an apartment since October 5th, as it was before, but everyone has to buy an apartment. It is based on the market principle, but it also has a social component, as it provides very favourable conditions for lending, a small interest rate of 0.5% per year, a long period of repayment up to 40 years and 10% of participation. We know that criminal proceedings are still under way today on abuse of office by the former president of the commission, former secretary of the government and others. We know that Nanny Mark Milosevic got an apartment. I guess you saw that you were supposed to get something in that grab, when college professors, I remind you, had a three-mark salary, so you got apartments of over 1.7 acres. Let's say your presidential candidate got an apartment paid for by an extra profit of 172 square feet. For the socially endangered and refugees in the final phase, making a feasibility study within the project for housing and integration of refugees with the Government of Italy. The project is worth 15m euros and 670 buildings will be built in seven cities in Serbia. What should we do next? More employment in the area of housing is expected in the next period. We expect the adoption of a law establishing a loan insurance corporation, which will include banks in the housing process and also through the adoption of a national housing strategy, but I am sure we will end up legalising. No matter when elections are held, this job ends with this government, and that is why I appeal to all the owners of the illegally built buildings, who have not yet signed up to do so immediately. Since the crowds are on the counter, they can do so in the mail, only to send their application to the recommended shipment. I am sure that in the middle of next year, Serbia will become a more urbanised country, and thus more attractive to foreign investors.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34275	I've been setting a break for an hour. You'll get straight replicas below.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert your identification cards into the MPs' voting units. Here you go. I realize we have a quorum and we continue to work. Replication rights, MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, and then the right to replicate the presentation of Minister Dragoslav Šumarca, MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34277	There's no minister. Apparently his discussion was pointless, because it was the fifth report in two days. Apparently, the government has decided to defend itself with a pointless debate, with a report no one is listening to alive, ten times the ratings of the National Assembly session have been reduced. You chose this scenario. Work, work, work, laugh, enjoy. Mr. Schumarac, with some half-truths and a large amount of untrues here, has stated that the SRS advocates the protection of social property, and whether he believes it, it's not clear to me, but that's what he said. All those who had the opportunity to watch TV broadcasts of the National Assembly once, and these years, they could notice that the SRS has a clear view of social property and it is not its protector. If I say it's against theft and privatisation, then it's not about social property, it's about fighting organized crime. It's time to start with that fight. Mr. Schumarac forgot that he and NATO are collapsing in this country. The SRS is just building. Mr. Šumarac, probably within a few days, will be in the same situation as Milan Milutinovic, Legia, Spasojevic, Bosko Buha, Gavrilović, Cume, Lukić, Goran Petrovic, Zoran Mijatovic. They all trusted DOS, so DOS rejected them. In a similar situation are your fins Labus and Dinkic. Once the creators of your economic program, and now the sharp enemies, just because they repeat what the SRS has been saying about you since 2000. Velimir Ilic, Marijan Risticevic, Aleksandar Radovic, is probably on the list; he escaped from the country at this time last year, and now he's back, and he's attacking you. Then, the economist Dragas, he attacked you a long time ago, and Janjušević began, and now Rašeta. Don't be surprised if Mr. Shumarac sleeps trees and stones like that in a few days, freneticly, according to DOS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because he just hears the voice of the people who say, not good morning, but when they will leave. That's the central question. You can stall this debate, devising it, but your flag has fallen. You understand, DOS, that's something that means the destructive opposition of Serbia, that you were and that you will be, and you cannot correct your reports with that impression.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34278	The word has been given by MP Srdjan Petrovic, the right to reply to the presentation of Minister Dragoslav Šumarac, deputy president, the DSS parliamentary group, and then by MP Jovan Todorovic, who issued an opinion at the Committee's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34279	Thank you. Minsitar Šumarac uses this pay phone to invite the people to report these facilities in the legalisation process and expects people and citizens to trust him, and here at the pay phone is false. At least one great lie he said, that the DSS urged citizens not to report their facilities. I call upon the minister to say when and who said so. The DSS is for legalisation, but the DSS voted against the Law on Planning and Construction, because it believes the law is not good. Our experts believe, and we as MPs trust them... Laugh, you laugh, you'll see the consequences your experts will have with this law. They say this law is not technically good. That's why we're against the law. We, as a legalist party, do not invite citizens not to enter this process. Citizens know best what to do. Why isn't this law good? This law is not good because it does not give a clear picture of what should be done on Serbia's territory. On the other hand, Minister Šumarac says he promises citizens that the money they give in this process will go to the construction of infrastructure in the settlements they live in. That's not possible, because if you see tariffs moving to the city center, to the periphery, to the villages, and to see the equipment of infrastructure in those areas, you'll see that it's inversely proportional and that it's not possible for the money to go towards building infrastructure. Before the question arises, did this law have a purpose to fill the budget? Minister Šumarac also shows a large number of applications as a major success. Every day makes it more and more easier to file applications, and that's good, but the application is not a legalisation request, and Minister Šumarac knows that well. From application to normal requirement takes a lot of time, it takes a lot of documents. It's quite clear, and it's the minister. Now he invites citizens to submit that request through mail. It's a simple piece of paper and it can only be used for statistics, so Minister Schumarac can get better statistics, so that there are no more objects to report than is recorded. That's the kind of thing that statistics can do. It's not a legal process. In all, Minister Šumarac has not received confidence and his exposure, his call to citizens will certainly not contribute to better relations in this important real estate market in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34280	The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic, a separate opinion. If there were no more demands for a word from the authorised participants in the debate, then the People's MP Petar Petrovic would have the word, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34281	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the Privatisation Committee, and on the review of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation's work, I have issued my opinion for the following reasons. First of all, I have to say that it is a conceptal difference that the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation should be organised to understand the SPS parliamentary group and what is currently being done. Some have already said in their statements that this ministry is essentially acting exclusively as the Ministry of Privatisation. Therefore, in this report, which is unfortunately not available to all MPs or not divided to all MPs, but only to the members of the Committee, we do not have relevant indicators of the real situation of the Serbian or Serbian economy, as you will. We have only data on how privatisation has been under way and what results have been achieved, and what industrial production we have come to, what is the real position of employees, what is the state of the economy in general, how many loans are granted by business banks, for which purposes, how many investments, etc., we do not have these data. The impression is that this ministry simply doesn't arrive, that it won't, that it's worried about the time when privatisation is under way. When it comes to privatisation, our eloquent minister, Mr. Vlahovic, often manages to make certain facts that go hand in hand of what I'm talking about the first plan, thus sometimes creating an idea that in this privatisation process everything is fine. I would still open up a few questions here, which I think as reasonable people we need to agree on, think about carefully and see what needs to be done. First of all, we never got an answer to the first question. It is said that around 1,000 companies have been sold and a total selling price of about a billion and 200m euros has been reached and that those who bought these companies have pledged investments covered by bank guarantees -- around 665m euros. It has never been said how much of these 660m euros are indeed realised in the form of investments in the economy. That's one thing. The second fundamental issue concerns the functioning of the Development Fund. Those who look at the data from the Ministry's report will see that the Fund for Development on behalf of investments over the past three years has been granted a total of 16 billion 200 million dinars, but that we permanently, year after year of DOS rule, have a decline in these funds. I'm going to illustrate to you the fact that in 2001, based on investment, the economy was approved by the Development Fund by something like a billion and 700 million dinars, in 2002, 6 billion and 900, and in 2003, only three billion and 300. The most logical conclusion from this is that there is a decline in investment activities in the economy, and we know that they are the most important factor for the launch of production and for the increase in the number of employees. Thirdly, which is important, when you look at the structure of short-term loans approved by the Development Fund, then you see that two billion and 90 million dinars are granted for this purpose, and of which a billion and 250 million for the promotion of exports. Then you don't have to wonder why we have this foreign trade deficit, this year about five or six billion, and total cumulatively for the last three years about nine billion dollars. If you encourage an export economy with an incomplete 30m euros, then you cannot expect inflows based on exports or the launch of export-oriented production. At the very end, seeing as the five minutes are coming, I have to put a big question mark on the success of the privatisation. When you look at what price companies were sold in tender and auction sales, then you see a foggy picture of it being something above book value. That was the contribution of the tender sales, primarily by the Nis industry. But when you look at auction sales, then you see that companies worth about 330m euros in accounting have been sold for less than 260m euros. We essentially sold what was worth 330 million in the largest number of privatized enterprises below book value. One more thing. We have a permanent decline in the number of employees in the Serbian economy, in all these years in which DOS rules. In 1990, 1,408,000 workers were employed in the Serbian economy, in 2000, 1,376,000 workers, in 2001, 1,345,000 and in 2002, 1,290,000 people. Somewhere around 130,000 people have lost their jobs from 1999 to today, although everyone here will agree that in 1999 it can't be a real rapper for comparison, because it's the year in which NATO bombing, in which economic capacities have not worked, in which many workers couldn't work, etc., and yet in relation to this most difficult year, we have a drastic decline in the number of employees in these companies. Accordingly, I could not accept this report as a member of the Committee, because I think this is the information that speaks of that darker side of the picture of the operation of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation and that this ministry at least does not deserve that praise, which was possible from the speech of some DOS members here, including the Minister himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34282	The word is by MP Petar Petrovic, after 72 hours of waiting and the first announcement, if it means something to my apology, but I cannot influence the course of the debate while it is under the Rules of Procedure, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34283	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers who have honored this assembly to attend this afternoon's session, finally after three days of announcement and waiting, a member of the opposition who regularly applied, neatly, to take part in this debate to say a word. We've been listening to ministers and their praises for what they've done, how they've done, and they don't say how much they've done. On the other hand, they make plans and programmes, tell us stories here what they will do in 2004, 2005 and even in 2007 or 2008, and don't realise elementically that by the end of this year they won't be sitting in those ministerial chairs, because some other people will come, as this assembly will vote their mistrust and resolve them from these functions, and the SS will give that request support and vote for the resolution of the Republic of Serbia's government. Before I talk about anything at all, we need to say what the government has been doing since she was elected, and ministers in the government since they were elected. What did they promise and what did they do? We in Serbia have a bad habit of forgetting quickly, however, we from the Soviet Union's party well remember what DOS promised Serbian citizens in electoral or other form before September 2000, especially before December 2000. I don't want to talk about it much, I'm just gonna say that they said that there would be an increase in the number of employees, that there would be growth in production, that there would be a better standard of citizens, etc. What did they do? They did this: the affair after the affair comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'll just remind you what the affairs are. As long as you sat in the ministerial chair, a sexual affair with Mr. Obradovic first broke out. Who'd stick his fingers in his mouth, rip his socks, or do what I know, it'd be heard here for this pay phone. You simply removed him from the vice president's post because he didn't suit you to sit in that seat for many reasons. You know that very well. It hasn't even quieted down yet, there's been another affair, a spy affair. Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Perisic was caught in the act of giving classified documents to American spies. And under the pressure of the public, Mr Perisic resigned, but to remind some of the DOS who spoke here about another gentleman, who called for immunity in the Federal Assembly, so apparently some Montenegrin MPs did not vote, or did not remove immunity, that the same Mr Perisic, whom you supported, called for immunity from the Federal Assembly and was supported by the MPs of the DOS not to have his immunity lifted. So much for your principle towards a proven spy in this Serbia. The question is, what's the next affair? I'm only gonna have to count a few, because it would take me at least two hours to talk about these affairs. The freshest affair is Janjušević-Kolesar. For your information, in every city in Serbia there are some small or large Kolesar or Janjusevic, normally under a different name and last name. The question arises that there was no public pressure whether people from the Serbian government, who allowed employees in the Serbian government, Mr Kolesar and Janjusevic to use the Serbian government's pay phone, to defend themselves as they did not. One Kolesar, who doesn't have two years' work experience, at least according to my information, a boy earns several hundred thousand euros, so Dad and Mom send it over to him over some islands of Marshall, Seishelski, etc. from Moscow. Imagine there are no banking transactions between Moscow and Belgrade, but must be a bit of a detour through the Seishel or the Marshall Islands. There is no need to talk about Janjusevic, but these are DOS and government gentlemen, your advisors, your associates, your clerks. On the principle of objective responsibility, if nothing further was revealed, the entire government would have to fall for this only reason, but the government is going further and new affairs are coming: Mr. Milovanovic, Mr. Mihajlovic, etc. There's an affair for the affair every day. In this government, are we asking the SS, is there someone who doesn't have an affair or will not be exposed to an affair? But let's not just talk about affairs, get back to what life does, see what the economic situation in Serbia is, what production is like in Serbia. You promised to create an economic environment, to create the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to increase production in Serbia, to improve wages, improve the standard of workers, etc. What did you do? And that little good company, which was in 2000, started to work even worse. There are more unemployed workers on the street. You said there would be a shortage of labour in Serbia, and today we have a lack of jobs, because people have nowhere to work. Our production literally stopped. You started selling the best companies. You sold cements, you sell Merima Kruševac, you sell Beopetrol. Who do you sell it to - the Russians, and you know how the Russians got that money, you know very well, when they buy Beopetrol. So you're selling the best companies. I'm asking you what bad business you've privatized if you haven't sold it? Here's just one example. Since I come from Pomoravsky County, there is a Jagodina, for your information, cable factory. Once the carrier of the cable industry, in the former Yugoslavia, when Slovenians and Croats were, today, campers. No one from the Ministry will take seriously into consideration the position of the cable factory and other metal-painted processors, such as the factory in Zajecar, the cable factory in Novi Sad, etc. What did you do to at least privatize those factories? What did you do in Serbia's metal complex? Did someone at MIN Nis do to improve production, increase employment? Did you bring someone so-called. Your strategic partner, who's going to bring in fresh capital, who's going to put in fresh technology to get a job there and make them live off their work? There is nothing to do, because you just want to sell and thus preserve social peace in Serbia. You can't do that, ladies and gentlemen. It must be made of production, because production alone creates excess values and creates new jobs. Speaking of deficits with the world, look at the economic results. It would not be worrying for us from the Soviet Union that it is achieved by importing new technologies, raw materials, repromaterials and the like, but you create a deficit by importing finished products that can be produced very well in Serbia, so you destroy domestic production. I'll just give you a few examples. Since you mainly live in Belgrade, you will not go down to the province a bit and see how you live in smaller towns, smaller towns, villages, to tell you that you can find Slovenian milk in any major store in Serbia today. Imported meat, imported by several million tonnes and thus drastically destroyed domestic meat production, is also in Serbia. Now I ask you what your interest is, should you develop domestic production or import all kinds of things: candy, chocolates, textile products, etc.? What about the domestic textile industry, what about the domestic leather industry? What about domestic agriculture and the food industry? Gentlemen of the DOS, come down a bit into the people, and ask how the people live. Don't just build an opinion on Belgrade, but Belgrade is turning its back on you, too, be sure. Give some of that money you got from abroad a little further south, so it doesn't keep being that krill "the souther, the sadder". Give some of that money to the people, divide a little into small towns, into villages, make the people feel these donations and help from abroad. As far as I can tell, however, your abroad is turning its back. How else to interpret that you have succeeded in three years of your rule to raise productivity in only one area, which is in the export of Serbian heads to The Hague tribunal. Every month, every year, from month to month, year to year, there are more Serbs that you deliver to The Hague. Is it the only export product of this Serbia that you are able to sell and get some donation or some money, so you can keep the so-called. Social peace? You will best see how the people live, how the workers live, and that is that more strikes are growing, more and more work stops, more roadblocks in Serbia, and that is the result of your three-year work. That's not what the SS invented, it's a fact, it's facts from the field. He's getting more unemployed, more dissatisfied. What's next? Gentlemen, here's one thing: your shift and new parliamentary elections, where some new forces will come that will surely pull this Serbia forward. On the other hand, what did you do with Serbian agriculture? You have brought to this place an honest man, Mr. Yevtic, who, for this short time, cannot correct everything that Mr. Vesenov has done, and those from the government who supported him have done. That man left the ministerial post under a lot of public pressure, otherwise you would never have replaced him. Did an innocent victim, a young girl, have to fall to get Mr. Vesenov out of the post of Minister of Agriculture and destroy the farm? Like it or not, it's facts. Now I'm going to tell you how you help farmers. Since you know it yourself, because you're aware of it and you've agreed on your DOS polytburo that there will be a choice, you're trying to double-cross agricultural producers, warlords or peasants, call them whatever you want, by providing them with 50 kilos of seed wheat per hectare for this fall, whoever wants to sow a hectare of wheat, and by providing him with 50 liters of diesel at a regressed price. You know what the villagers in Pomoravlje say? With these 50 kilograms of wheat, we'll only be able to sow a hectare of wheat if we take a corn-seater, at a distance of 70 centimetres, a row of order, so we can only help the government sow a hectare of wheat with those 50 kilograms. On the other hand, you help them with 50 liters of elevators of 30 dinars, and the regular price is 37-38 dinars. The villagers wonder how many of you DOS gentlemen are helping this fall? These 50 kilograms of seed wheat cost 1,000 dinars, with 50 liters of regressed diesel saving 400 dinars. So, you're helping by a hectare of 1,400 dinars, and they say -- since the average contribution in Serbia is between 3.5 and 4,000 kilograms per hectare, you help them by just paying them the same price of wheat you're paying now for imports of wheat, because we don't have enough, and you pay it between 11 and 12 dinars. With the same of our producers you paid seven to eight dinars, since Mr. Vesenov in that famous "telephone conversation with Jesus Christ" found that in Serbia, next to the drought, there was no first class of wheat, peasants were thus damaged by several thousand dinars per hectare. Give our people some of that money, don't import what can be produced in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen. There's been a lot of talk here about privatisation. I'll just say with two or three sentences, there is a Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, however, it seems that the ministry has erased the word "privileged" and has become only the Ministry of Privatisation. What did we sell now? We've been selling, but what we've done in the last few months when we've sold two tobacco factories, a tobacco factory in Nis and a tobacco factory in Vranje, and what we're doing with Beopetrol, that's going to be sold or already sold to Lukoil, or what it's called, the Russians, is really a miracle of miracles. The question arises, if you remember, I spoke from this pay phone a few months ago, when it came to the tobacco law, that this strategic partner would come and the sparrows on the branch knew who would buy DIN and DIV. Then we passed the law that in 2005 and 2006 the tax would be increased, so-called. Excise on imported pack of cigarettes, because that way we pay back the debt to those who buy these factories, because they're going to produce it here, so that the imports wouldn't be curient to domestic producers, normally, we need to do them a favor to be cheaper to get the money they invested back quickly. That's how you DOS gentlemen do it. I ask you to warn some who earn; if they have something to go out for this pay phone, let them say so. So, we from the SS have pointed out and we're suggesting that it's not good, but since you didn't listen, you know how you're going to go. That's why it would be best and most necessary, to resign, it's easier for you, not to press these buttons here and vote against you, because you will surely be replaced and some others will come after the election. The question is, what did you do in health care, in education, etc. As you worry about Serbia's health and health care, the best answer is that we don't have a health minister for six months. Either you don't have enough nerve or you don't have a obedient man to listen to everything the government tells him to do. In education they talk - no strikes like they used to. They can't, ladies and gentlemen, have educators strike because they fly from work. You know how, very soon. In the end, since I have to leave a few minutes for another MP from the Soviet Parliament Club to say a word, I can only tell you the following. Since I heard from this pay phone from Prime Minister Zivkovic, who is not here, that those who wish to vote against the government's shift, I say - ladies and gentlemen MPs and citizens of Serbia, all those who want to live in normal Serbia, who want Serbia's future to be better, will vote for the resolution of this government and thus for the extraordinary parliamentary elections. The SS will give selfless help to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34284	The word has been made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, so the minister called. National MP Dragoljub Boskovic is asking for a word. On what grounds? You have no basis for replication. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The basis for the replica, when it comes to mentioning the party, concerns either the president of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, in the event of the absence of the president, of the deputy president.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34285	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has launched a request for the resolution of the Serbian government and deputy president of the parliamentary group Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic is in an exposé, and these days, has given MPs enough arguments to decide and support the SRS request. Our MP, Zoran Krasic, explained in detail why the government failed to meet Serbia's citizens' wishes and demands and why it needs to be voted out. I am convinced that both MPs and citizens of Serbia are now fully aware that this government must place itself in another government. Of course, as a member of the SRS, I'd like that to happen in the election, if it didn't happen on the street. Serbia does not need unrest, and the best way to fix everything, not to have any unrest, to make it all legal and regular elections, and we expect you to have these elections announced as soon as possible, so that Serbia can move on. I'm looking at Professor Shumarc, Minister of Labour and Employment, who shows a picture of a house, not telling anyone about any house, nor whose house it is, and he doesn't see before him Minister Milovanovic, who, once a humble unionman, is a man who shared his concerns with the working class, with members of his union, suddenly became so rich that he can afford to build such a big house. We're wondering which money, which mortgage. He says it's Mom's house, that he's building his mom's house. You know, it's a man who brings out his beautiful wishes that he should be in Serbia, that he should be a lot of employees, that there should be a lot of new jobs, but there isn't, and the reality is the protest of members of the Independent Union, the reality is that the workers were beaten, and that's the same workers who receive 40 cents of satin from that same employer who pays $17 an hour in the United States as well. Mr. Milovanovic is an obsession of Smiljanic and the president of the union, his obsession is those workers. He believes that they are wrong and that the government has done too much for the workers and is not clear to him that they are not grateful for it. Minister Mihajlovic, one of the richest people in Serbia, reportedly bulls, sells bulls in the afternoon, and I don't know when he can make it to the ministry. Maybe that's why he was not familiar with what his Liberal Party members are saying, that Dinkic, a pest and a criminal, as they say, also said on TV, is also reported in the newspaper, in 2000 illegally entering the National Bank, masked with an automatic rifle. I'm surprised Mihajlovic finds out just now. That's what Dr Vojislav Seselj spoke of in 2000. Is it possible for the police minister to find out about it from the newspaper, from the hearsay, from the corners? Is it possible the minister didn't have time to find out in his ministry? But if Dinkic is a criminal and a pest, then what are those people who haven't done anything for two or three years to prevent the work of such a pest and a criminal, why haven't they arrested him, why haven't they launched an investigation, why hasn't he been handed over to the judicial authorities? What to say about the Ministry of Health's portfolio. Today we have a case to rob a huge railroad property. Dr. Mijatovic, a man who is almost 70 years old, 36 years of directoral training and 43 years of employment, holds a meeting of the board of directors on Friday to perform the transformation, 90% of the office will be reportedly belonging to the institution, and only 10% will be set up by railways. It's a huge robbery, ladies and gentlemen, and here Minister Djelic says the railway is constantly at a loss, that you're losing it, that there's no money left from the budget to fund it. Why in this office, which is huge, is charged by two arches, both from the Health Services Fund and from the Railways for pre-workers and other workers. I really couldn't figure out that after so many years, it still happens in that office, and some MPs here, Mr. Marko Petrovic, for example, sits down at the Democratic Party, Srecko Žeželj from the Democratic Party, but when it comes to the board of directors of the ZTP, Tahir Hasanovic, everything is clear to me. Liberal on the board of directors, it's either robbery or illegal privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen, our ministers have been raped, and that's why they have to leave. They used to be modest, share breakfast with the workers, with the people. Today, when they're hungry, they sell two or three sugars, they eat two or three sugars, and that's their breakfast. Of course, it's cheaper, because three sugars cost three euros and a burek and yogurt tepsi 3.5 euros, and it's cheaper to eat sugars for breakfast than to eat a burek. But they don't sell theirs in Chagrovec, in Matejec, in Sopot, they also keep the prices, and what is a people's sale for a bagatella. Once upon a time, these same ministers were separated from the people only by the stage. They were on stage, and the citizens were outside. And then they were hungry and humiliated. Now they're hungry again and they're even more humiliated. But they don't share them anymore, they're shared by cars with darkened windows, they're shared by fairies, they're shared by new apartments. Look only in that village, as they call it, "the settlement of thieves," which of the officials makes apartments. In two years, fairies cost a million euros, two million euros. The time has come to work, no more mangupa shouting from the rallyers, that is, my people, if you're cold, rip the bills, we won't pay the electricity, now we have to work. Eight million Serbian citizens seek electricity, seek heating, seek bread, seek life for their children. The whole of Serbia is buzzing, that's all you don't hear - elections. The election will solve everything. If that cry isn't enough for you, if you don't hear it, the pole has two ends, it's working once, it'll work again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34286	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, after him, MP Vladimir Garcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, before I access the detailed information on the work of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation for the past three years, and this is more public work, although the public is very well aware of what the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation has done, I would like to say immediately that the privatisations of DIN, DIV and Beopetrol have been mentioned and the most successful privatisations in Central Europe and measured according to all criteria. The only dissatisfied are cigarette smugglers. The only dissatisfaction is with oil and oil-derived smugglers, those who, in an easy way, made themselves rich in a quick way, in a short time, in a few years on the back of this people. By privatising the tobacco industry, the local industry in Nis received 20m euros in additional budget. The 20 million will be invested in Nis, for further infrastructure development, with the development of Nish infrastructure then becoming a significant industrial centre, much more attractive for future investment. Similarly, Vranje, also applies to Belgrade, because the privatisation of Beopetrol will be an additional incentive for truly ambitious plans realised by the city's government, i.e. an additional financial incentive for further development of infrastructure in Belgrade. With the privatisation of the tobacco industry and the other side of Beopetrol, employees in the tobacco industry and in Beopetrol profited. All employees have stable conditions for future development, have a very clear defined social programme, and what is very important, have a very clearly defined future. The future will be such that Serbia will be a centre for the production of cigarettes, and cigarettes will be exported to neighbouring countries under the name created in Serbia and made in Serbia, and instead of importing them, we will export cigarettes and that is how, among other things, how to fix the external trade deficit. With the privatisation of DIN, DIV and Beopetrol, citizens were also given. And how? Not only through the division, the free distribution of vouchers by 15% of capital, which will be carried out when the overall process of privatising social capital is completed, but also by increasing excise duties on tobacco products will lead to a more significant inflow in the case of the Serbian state. In other words, this level of budgetary inflow will also be able to be used for development projects, but also for social contributions, i.e. for social contributions that are beyond the transition period. Once again, I underline, with the privatisation of DIN and Beopetrol, as well as all other privatisations, the disgruntled cigarette smugglers, oil-derived smugglers, those who got rich in a short time, and no wonder they show up on their own. Also, you are aware of this, the process of restructuring 50 large social enterprises and the mentioned cable industry is under way. The restructuring process for the cable industry is at an end. The tender for the sale of cable factories in Zajecar has been completed, in the next few days the contract should be signed, the tender for the sale of 70% of Jagodina cable factories will be announced soon, the social programme implemented, the financial restructuring measures have been implemented. Therefore, we expect this here, and given the interest that comes from renowned multinational companies, and I will mention the freshest interest, it comes from Denmark and I expect successful privatisation. There's no need for the people to be afraid of the black perspectives, the black forecasts. As I said, the measure of political responsibility is reflected, among other things, by the willingness to tell the truth, and not by the word, that empty promises are made for this speaker that cannot be fulfilled. No one in the Serbian government has ever made a promise in a single moment, one day made a promise that had no cover. Our promise of restructuring, to privatise it was -- we need a few years, we need to realise the restructuring measures, we need to enter into restructuring, or finance clear and very difficult social programmes, but if we do, the chances of our businesses being successful again are much greater than they were before we entered the restructuring process itself. You will see through the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation report what was done on the plan to restructure large social systems. What I mean is, this is not the first time the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation has submitted a report to the National Assembly, because the Ministry has regularly submitted reports to the National Assembly, which is mandatory under the Privatisation Act, even if the privatisation process is at stake. Regular monthly reports were sent by the ministry to the Privatisation Committee. If you remember, I remember the same thing, the work of the Privatisation Committee is public and all MPs have the right to be familiar with the materials discussed on the Privatisation Committee. The Ministry of Business and Privatisation has several very important responsibilities in its work, and one is privatisation, the other is the restructuring of the economy, and it is the restructuring of large social systems. There is a development of small and medium-sized enterprises, then a definition of the legislative framework, in order to raise the conditions for implementation as much direct, foreign and domestic investment as possible by improving the legislative framework. In the end, the ministry has an obligation to monitor the enforcement of privatisation procedures under the previous Privatisation Act. I'll try to brief you on each of these parts as soon as possible, or what was done in the previous period. Since it is least mentioned behind this speaker, probably because the topic is not so popular, I will start my own report, i.e. information on what was done on the development plan of small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises are one strategy for restructuring Serbia's economy, as privatisation, attracting investors and investment will significantly improve the performance of the Serbian economy in the privatisation process. We need to open new business units in order for a large inherited army of unemployed to have quality jobs. There are two ways to address the problem of unemployment, namely, one is to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, and another is to direct large investments in new capacities. Privatisation is not a way to address the problem of unemployment, on the contrary, privatisation is a way to convert the number of unproductive jobs by investing, restructure into productive jobs. The Ministry established a Small and Medium Enterprises Development Sector in 2001 under the Ministry Law, which the assembly voted in January 2001. At the ministry's initiative, the government of the Republic of Serbia established an inter-resor working group to make recommendations for simplifying conditions and procedures for the establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and private entrepreneurs, in fact for deregulation. It was necessary to establish an inter-resor group not only to identify the obstacles that exist in the current legislative framework, but also to avoid possible obstacles that could arise from new legal solutions. The task force had the authority to co-ordinate the activities of different ministries, to initiate and consider proposed laws and other regulations affecting the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. The ministry established a entrepreneurial council, involving representatives of entrepreneurs throughout Serbia. The entrepreneurship council is actually a new national forum, in which representatives of the public sector and small and medium-sized enterprises work together to address the problems facing the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, all in order to accelerate the future development of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, Members of the public. In late 2001, the Republic Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development and Entrepreneurship was established, with the aim of identifying the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, to initiate solutions that will improve the conditions for the establishment of new and dynamic development of existing small and medium-sized enterprises. In 2001, I will remind you, this assembly passed the Law on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. Under the law, the agency was founded. In co-operation with donors, regional agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the promotion of entrepreneurship, whose primary task was to assist the establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises through the provision of non-financial support to entrepreneurs and owners of small and medium-sized enterprises. This was done in the light of providing the necessary information, then training and consulting services. The largest project by the European Agency for Reconstruction, non-financial support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia, has enabled the establishment of seven regional offices, in Zrenjanin, Zajecar, Užica, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis. The government of the Republic of Serbia, currently with the European Agency, is joining the joint establishment of an office in Sutotica and Krusevec. Along with the GTC, an office was established, which is a smiled bilateral support agent, in Novi Sad and Subotica, and a regional office in Novi Pazar was established with SDC. Also, the government of the Republic of Serbia established a special, no donor support, office in Kragujevac, Leskovac, Valjev and Sapac, and in 2003 the trend of establishing regional offices and forming a network was continued. Offices in Bujanovac, Pogorevc, Valjev and Sremska Mitrovica were established. What difference does it make between what we found and what we have today? Today, entrepreneurs do not have to wander from door to door and ask for advice, to get the right information, to be associated with similar entrepreneurs from other regions, from other countries, to get support for making a business plan, to get support for other analyses. They have their own centers. The whole of Serbia is flooded with a network of regional agencies to encourage the development of entrepreneurship. When we were criticised in time for why the Law on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development, and not the law on small and medium-sized enterprises, we made it very clear because entrepreneurs lack institutional support, one place of information exchange, not systemic solutions that would favour small and medium-sized enterprises, because obstacles for small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs and large enterprises are completely identical. In 2002, amendments to the Act on Small and Medium Enterprises, amendments to the Company Act, Proposal for a Guarantee Fund Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly in July 2002, were made to the legislative action plan. And what did we get with these changes? These changes gave us the opportunity for entrepreneurs to break the offices of the Republic government, the republican ministries, to collect all necessary documentation in the territory of their own municipality. These changes gave us the opportunity, which we gave to entrepreneurs, instead of collecting all the permits, and then to obtain all the solutions before opening up entrepreneurship, that they could do so even after opening up entrepreneurship, and that the need to collect permits before opening up entrepreneurship only applies to relevant sensitive actions, which can be dangerous to the human environment. Believe me, today if someone wants to open an independent shopping store, a catering facility, a whole series of entrepreneurial actions is enough for him one day to get temporary work status and, in that month beyond that, according to the predetermined dynamics, to collect all necessary documents. It may seem to you, gentlemen MPs, that it is irrelevant, but for most of our citizens, who have entrepreneurial potential, it is very important that they do not waste their time and their energy by turning the counter to the counter, visiting the office, that there is no whole series of administrative checkpoints to collect all the permits, but to do so in one day and in one place. It's called eliminating systemic obstacles, it's called accessing problems in a system way. It's something the Department of Economy and Privatisation did in this part. As far as the Guarantee Fund Act is concerned, I am very sorry that he has waited for a year to be adopted in this House. I am sorry that entrepreneurs, those who own small and medium-sized enterprises today, have a problem with collateral, inability to provide guarantees to business banks, which has been denied the opportunity to use additional financial resources with the support of the guarantee fund and to realise their business plans. The law, you will see something later, was adopted during 2003, along with the activities that followed in this sector. On a proposal from the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, the government adopted a strategy to develop small and medium-sized enterprises in early 2003. This strategy has been delivered to all MPs in parliament and I hope that you have had the opportunity to study in detail what the government's strategic plans are in this sector. The strategy implies that more than 400,000 businesses and businesses exist for the next five years, instead of the current 220,000 businesses and businesses. The strategy very clearly defines tasks that each government institution, the ministry, will have to do in the next five years to eliminate obstacles, to improve the economic environment and to achieve these objectives. If these objectives are realised, which are not ambitious, because they involve legalising the work of the gray economy, and I am sure, and that also analysis shows that at least 60% of today's registered unemployed actually have a job in the gray economy, if strategic objectives are realised, this should result in a million new jobs giving us and a significant contribution to resolving the problem of unemployment. And if these steps were to come true today, a little later I would give you very precise information about the number of enterprises, the number of enterprises founded in 2001, 2002 and 2003. What is very important to us, this is the establishment of a Council for Regulatory Reform of the Economic System, with broad jurisdiction and greater powers. In order to round up institutional infrastructure, support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia through a network of regional agencies, four other regional agencies have been established to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. By signing the Thessaloniki Declaration, I will remind you, on 21 June this year, the Republic of Serbia also adopted a charter on small and medium-sized enterprises. The Charter provides for a national report on small and medium-sized enterprises and for the alignment of this report with European directives. Based on the questionnaire submitted, the first report on small and medium-sized enterprises will be published very soon, as production began in July, at the First International Conference on Small and Medium Enterprises. In 2003, in addition to the said Guarantee Fund Act, which you adopted in this House, and for that I thank you ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the laws on the Agency for Business Registers have been proposed, the law on registration of business entities, the law on bankruptcy, settlement and liquidation, the licensing of bankruptcy managers and, of course, another very important law for the entire economy is in preparation, which is the law on companies. Why is the law on the Agency for Business Registers and the Law on the Registration of Business Entities important? Serbia today has a very complicated procedure for registering business entities. It takes more than 60 days for economic operators to register. What we did in entrepreneurship, unfortunately, could not be done by amending the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. That's where we needed a complete reform of the registration system. When the law is passed, when a new registration system is implemented from 1 January of the following year, expect registration to be carried out no more than 60 days, but for the longest period of seven days and that the costs of registration of economic operators will be ten times lower than today. In this way, we remove a key obstacle to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also a key obstacle to realisation as much as possible inflows of direct investment. I expect the National Assembly to adopt this law, because the law has first and foremost the defined interest of Serbian businessmen, the interest of Serbian citizens, the interest of Serbia's entrepreneurial potential, which is in the disciplines and which should be freed. Someone might ask why he hasn't been here by now. Because, gentlemen, the job of adopting the Constitutional Charter has been completed not within six months, but within two years. This law, as well as the bankruptcy law, was on a federal level, and the gentlemen who sat in the economic ministries at the federal level obviously did not consider it appropriate that these laws should have priority. In the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, these laws have priority, the proposal was prepared in April, and was delivered to the National Assembly in June. I expect you to adopt bankruptcy laws and registration laws during the current National Assembly. As for the proposal for a bankruptcy law, I would like to say that Serbia will receive one of the most modern bankruptcy laws, which will be in the function of reviving the part of the Serbian economy that is overindebted and which precisely because it is over-indebted cannot be privatised, nor is business activated in the way it defines the privatisation law. It's simple for you. There's an interest in the company, but there's no interest in taking over the old accumulated debts. The existing bankruptcy procedure is inefficient, long, although legal, is not transparent enough. The privatisation law affirmed the principles of public, openness and these same principles were incorporated into the bankruptcy law, i.e. in this very important process for further restructuring of the Serbian economy. Instead of taking ten or more years, the future bankruptcy will last no more than a year. The bankruptcy in the future will indeed be a mechanism for reviving the over-indebted part of the Serbian economy. And one more thing to say on this subject, the bankruptcy law has very clearly divided roles between, on the one hand, trade courts and, on the other hand, bankruptcy managers. I will also take this opportunity to ask you to start implementing this law, which also contains the interest of the Serbian economy, the interest of the population as soon as possible, and to allow for the start of the implementation of this mechanism for the structure of the Serbian economy. For small and medium-sized enterprises in the past period, loans were granted through the European Investment Bank, then loans were granted by the EEW Agency for Reconstruction, based on contracts signed in 2002 and 2003, and also, the Development Fund had a very intense business lending activity from this economic sector. The European Investment Bank signed a 20m-euro global loan contract on 16 June 2002. The loan has been realised, and the majority of the time limit for the realisation of the total loan is three years. The minimum amount of credit is 200,000 euros per party, and the maturity of 12 to 15 years; the interest rate is variable, the maximum interest rate, and thus I say how important this is for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, is 7.9%. The European Agency for Reconstruction approved a 15m-euro loan to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. That credit line is fully realised. Based on these two credit lines, a total of 2,500 new jobs have been opened in the new sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. Since I notice that your attention is falling, because the topic of development of small and medium-sized enterprises is not particularly interesting, and that is understandable, because there is no material for cheap pulsism, I move on to the second part of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation report, and that part relating to the activities of the Development Fund in the past three-year period. Over the past three-year period, the Development Fund has totalised 2,205 loans of 16 billion 254 million dinars. A total of 20,000 new jobs have been opened to these approved loans. Of course, credit-approval dynamics are different in this past period. The maximum amount of credit was granted in 2002 and 2003. In addition to, I say, investment loans, the Fund approved short-term credits for the financing of crafts assets, then loans for the promotion of exports, for the purchase of fruit, for the current liquidity of enterprises. Unlike past times, when the Development Fund was a social shocker, when it shared loans without any economic resonations, when the money from the sale of Telecom was divided into an economy that was unable to recover funds, unlike that period, today the development fund works fully in line with economic principles. And what people who make up the Development Fund's management should be proud of is the degree of credit recovery: 96% is the rate of return of the invested funds by the Development Fund and it seems to me that, according to this development fund, it was in the first place with the total banking sector. We are at the very beginning of the realisation of the privatisation programme, and in general the economic transition, clearly saying that we have enough strength and readiness to present the truth to the people of Serbia about the situation in the economy. Do not be afraid, I will not repeat now that you have destroyed the economy, that with your wise policy you have destroyed Serbia's future, that you have made your wise policy an additional cost for the generations that came after that. What I'm saying is that the Serbian government, instead of printing money and thus financing social peace, has defined itself as a policy of clear, clean, real accounts. The reality is that today in Serbia you do not have one company that has an optimal number of employees. Unfortunately, that's the case, and that's why I don't blame the socialists who were before this government. This is simply the problem of the administrative economy, which has been developing in Serbia since 1945, the problem of compulsory employment, in line with some laws that have previously defined economic policy. However, the issue is how to solve the problem that exists in Serbia, which is the surplus employees in individual businesses. That's where you and I are different. The difference is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has defined itself as actively participating in funding social programmes for surplus employees, not leaving the problem to the company, which is unable to regulate even the elemental issues of its own economic survival. As a result of such a defined policy, a transition fund was established in the budget for the 2001 budget, which has been in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the fourth year. These funds from the Transition Fund have been financed by social programmes, in which a total of 58,000 workers have been taken care of. Unfortunately, it is the reality of Serbia. These workers are jobless and with a fictitious job. In order to make a step forward towards restructuring businesses, in the direction of privatisation, re-activated abandoned capacities, we first had to do this very painful job. You know very well that every social programme was based on a consensus that has been achieved with participants in the implementation of the programme, which is primarily unions; all representative trade unions and those who do not belong to a group of representative trade unions, and exist, exist in a concrete enterprise in which the social programme is implemented. In this way, we have financed total social programmes for almost all enterprises in the restructuring process, with social programmes being financed for several other large enterprises outside the restructuring list, for companies located in the tender privatisation. It's actually a way to show responsible economic transition policy. We could have said, "Here you are, gentlemen of the company, "so you're dealing with your own problems. But unfortunately, the answer to that question we knew in advance: this problem will not be solved, the company will go into bankruptcy without any certainty that it will be economically reactivated from that bankruptcy; or, another way that we have also chosen, which is to finance the salaries from the budget, and that we are fictitiously filling that budget with the printing of money on Topcider; or we are making some illusion of electricity that costs nothing and which is probably free of itself produced; or that we are cheating on peasants not to pay for wheat every year when the fruit of the wheat is harvested. We didn't choose either model, we said this was true. You remember very well the beginning of the implementation of these programmes that took place in the flag in Kragujevac, and you remember very well that in the beginning it was not particularly well accepted by employees, but at the time when reason over emotions prevailed and when unions, together with the Ministry, Agency and of course other ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, clearly realized that there was no other choice. I am very pleased that finally, 50 years after World War II, after the start of the construction of the administrative economy, we have admitted and accepted that social costs must be financed by the state, admitted and accepted that the only way to well-organised real market economy is in fact real clean accounts between participants in business business, and these accounts that involve sound financial discipline. In parallel with the process of realising social programmes, knowing that many of these large enterprises cannot survive over a long period of time, we have subsidized their business, we have subsidized their crafts capital, that the restructuring period is expected in an active state, that in this way the chances of successful privatisation and their definitely resuscitation, i.e. restructuring, make it much more certain. We have allocated over 14 billion dinars from the budget in these three years, 603 companies are beneficiaries of budget subsidies, economic subsidies, and for each budget subsidy, there is a clear report, with complete invoices, so that the way these budget subsidies are spent in each particular company. Now, since it is often heard in public that the privatisation money is used for other purposes and not returning to the economy, let's just add these two figures: 14 billion for subsidies, 11 billion or 12, that's exactly what Minister Milovanovic will say, if he didn't tell you this morning, for funding the social programme, that's 26 billion. And 26 billion is 400 million euros. The Republic of Serbia's budget totalled 75 per cent and 80 per cent, respectively, of its billion- and 200-euro revenues. That's 960 million. A 250m-euro loan for small and medium-sized enterprises, credits for entrepreneurs, has been placed through the Development Fund. I'll explain this complicated bill to you later, 80% times a billion and 200. The budget is funded by road infrastructure, unlike the period of destruction of road infrastructure. I don't count on that short period of restoration destroyed during the bombing, thanks to the wise policy again, because it's not an elemental accident and it didn't happen by itself, it was the result of politics. If you look at today's travel infrastructure activities and when you see that in 2001 we had only four billion in the budget to finance the reconstruction of the road infrastructure, and that in 2004, we will have more than 10 billion budgets, along with all other loans, along with all the donations that come for it, calculate for yourself how much funds are recovered in the economy based on the revenues achieved from privatisation. So I'm going to repeat once again -- 14 billion for subsidies, 12 billion for social programmes, for travel infrastructure annually on average six billion, and what is very important, the Development Fund has placed 250m euros. You will see for yourself that the figure returned to the economy is much greater than the revenue generated from privatisation. Why do I compare these sizes? Because privatisation revenues are extra extraordinary revenues. They happen once in a transition period. Also, funding of social programmes in failed enterprises in the transition period only happens once, and these are extra extraordinary expenditures, such as extra extraordinary budget expenditure subsidising the economy in restructuring, so it is normal for these extra revenues to be used on the other hand. That is why I am particularly surprised by critics who, on the one hand, criticise that nothing is being invested in the economy, and, on the other hand, are proposing models of voucher privatisation, where there is actually no income. I'm very interested in how the necessary income could be made to invest in the economy according to the free distribution model. But I don't want to owe you much. We move on to the third part of the report, which concerns all of you, and the public as a whole: it is a report on privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, thanks to you, who, with more than two-thirds of the majority, passed the privatisation law and a package of privatisation laws, more than 170 MPs voted for the law, and did not make a mistake and there is nothing to be ashamed of, on the contrary, should be proud of the results achieved in the past period, we were in a position in June to begin the process of establishing new institutions. These institutions are the Privatisation Agency and the Action Fund, so that we can start the process of implementing the privatisation process in a transparent manner, which means the full openness of the process and, on the other hand, the full public process. I know that the word "public" for most opposition MPs causes stress, fear, because you are not used to working publicly, but that is the original principle of privatisation in Serbia, which we strictly adhere to. I'll show you later that there's all the information on who the company's buyer is, how many potential customers participated, when auctions were held, or tenders. You can check all that information in the Central Register, where all the owners in the privatisation process are kept. The privatisation agency today is a modern institution that has about 250 employees in seven centres. Out of the total number of employees, 230 are in a permanent working relationship, while they remain under contract. Four centres in the Agency are crucial and they represent sales channels. These are tender sales centres, auction sales, restructuring and for the sale of the remaining part of the capital of the previous privatisation, which is located in the stock fund. Since you have adopted the principle of decentralisation here and have suggested to the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, which we have accepted and I thank you for insinuating the principle of decentralisation in the privatisation process. We have adopted your request and your proposal in two ways. First, we set up regional offices. Regional offices work in Novi Sad, Nis, Kralje and Kragujevac. This trend of setting up regional offices continues. Companies that are in the auction process are auctioned precisely in these places, not just in Belgrade anymore, and not only in one place anymore. But this does not mean that the methodology, that respect for legal principles, principles and sublegal principles is not identically implemented during auctions in all regional offices. The exact same procedure, the only place to auction is different. Another way of decentralisation the whole process refers to the company's right to prepare documents in auction privatisation. That is why the auction privatisation process is going successfully today, it flows efficiently, and it represents a large field to activate the entrepreneurial potential that exists in Serbia. Many doubted the entrepreneurial potential in Serbia, so, proposing some other models, such as the free distribution model, wanted that entrepreneurial potential to be exposed to the image or in terms of the functioning of foreign financial investment funds, neglecting Serbia's entrepreneurial potential. It's completely wrong and the practice has shown. So far, more than 900 companies have been privatised in the privatisation process. The tender privatisation process privatised 27 companies. There is a degree of foreign capital participation the most important thing: 90% of investment and privatisation revenues in the tender privatisation are just being realised by the participation of foreign investors. The sales price in the tender privatisation, the total sales price, is 795m euros, which is more than 50% higher than the total found book value. Let's just stick with this information for a moment. Many have criticised the privatisation model, that it is a sale, taking the right to be greater knowers than the market itself. The market is the only relevant judge to answer the question of what is the value of something, the value of the product, the value of the capital in the privatisation process and the value of the service. The fact that the book value is high in the company's books is the result of previously adopted assessment principles, based on a mere physical count of the assets the company has, not realizing the company's profit potential. The postulate applicable to the market economy is that the company is worth as much as its profits. If there is no profit, if there are losses in one long time period, then there is no value of capital, regardless of its shiny buildings, great equipment, regardless of all the property it has. We, of course, did not serve the principle of physical buildings and property, but precisely the principle of profit power to define the value of capital and let the market determine it. Nevertheless, you have seen that the privatisation revenues in the tender privatisation are 55% higher than the total amount of the book value of these companies' capital in the tender privatisation. It's probably interesting to you who the buyers are in the tender privatisation process. I will take advantage of this opportunity, given that it is rarely heard in public -- it is not only known who the customers are, so the dirty capital is used, etc., and believe me, in Serbia there is no more transparent and open process than the privatisation process, where it is known not only who the buyer is, but who are potential buyers in auction privatisation, where the exact account is being paid and that the competent commission, which, eventually, needs to determine the relevant irregularities, receives all information on all privatisation procedures in time. We had a total of 27 successful tender privatisation procedures. Just to point out that there are currently 30 other companies in the tender privatisation process that I expect to successfully privatise by the end of 2004. The Zorka Farm company was purchased by the domestic company Hemofarm Concern from Vrsac, for 70% of the capital, Hemofarm paid 14.670,000 euros. The investment obligation is 27,5m euros, and the overall social programme, which is also guaranteed by a first-class banking guarantee, is 16.1m euros. Therefore, it is one example of successful privatisation in Šapec, privatisation of Zorka Farm. Since it's been almost a year since Zorka Farm was privatised, it would be interesting to see what the new owner did in the meantime. Meanwhile, the new owner has fully met the investment commitment for the first year of 13.3.50m euros. The social programme of 16.1m euros is also met at all points except in one, where the signing of a contract for the construction of a diagnostic centre in Sapac is expected these days. So you can also see that the local self-government in Šapec, in particular, has a very clear benefit that is defined and due to successful privatisation. Then, we had the privatisation of Merime from Kruševec, bought by one of Germany's largest companies, the German-Austrian company Henkel, the purchase contract was signed on September 30th 2002, the total price for 70% of capital was 14.4m euros. The investment programme is nominally expressed at 43m euros, the social programme 12.1m euros. Since we have a report on what happened in Krusevec, meanwhile, the investment commitment of 6.7m euros in the first year was fully achieved, the social programme was fully implemented, wages increased by the first 5%, and since 1 July 2003 by an additional 5%, in line with the social programme. We had privatisation, not a single worker in "Merima" was fired, as no worker was forcibly fired from any of the companies in the tender privatisation, for most of these companies there was a voluntary programme based on the financing of severances and very high ones. This applies to "Merima", for "Popovac", for "Beocin", for "Koseric", and for most of these companies that are located or were in the tender privatisation process. But no employee left by getting fired. He only left if he decided to leave alone for the severance, the high severance he was given. That's a very important thing to say. Valyanica aluminum, a very popular topic for your time, was privatized on 1 October 2002, then a purchase contract was signed, if you are interested in how many hours and we can get that information. We have all the information about every company that's in the privatisation process, and you have them, too, just don't read them, because the truth doesn't interest you. You're interested in stories, in half-truths, in the fact that you're putting them behind this speaker and that you're trying to compromise a very successful process. For 70% of the capital, Impol paid 6.6m euros, the total investment programme accepted as nominal is 14.87m euros, a total social programme of 6.28m euros. What happened in the meantime, since it's been a year? Production doubled. This year's investment commitment, fully met, was $2.6m and even exceeded, according to a report we have. By the end of the year, more than six million dollars will be invested. The social programme in the first year, amounted to $1161,000, was fully achieved. Profits increased by 41%, severances were paid for 170 employees, voluntary severances, which were taken over by employees. I can read you every company, if that's what you want. Rumaguma from Ruma, a contract signed on 20 February this year, the company's capital sold to the Boston Galaxy, U.S.A. Total price for 70% of capital minimum, only $460,000. The company at the moment of privatisation in front of bankruptcy, with high obligations, where capacities do not work, with unresolved environmental problems, with unpaid workers' earnings, with working conditions that do not match the period of the beginning of the 21st century. Meanwhile, the capacity was raised 15 days ago, I was informed that a contract was concluded between "The Galaxy" and "John Deer" for the production of pneumatics for exports to Central and Western Europe. Not only that, gentlemen, thanks to the Galaxy, we have made contact with John Dire, who is expressing interest in investing his capital in the capacity of the tractor industry in our country. That's what you don't understand. Why do we need reputed investors? Because these good examples are invitations for other investors and because only investments raise the capacity of use in these companies, failed thanks to your wise economic policy over the past ten years. I assume you're interested in sugars, too, since you mentioned them here. Here, and we'll talk about them. Here are three sugars that were most popular during the privatisation period, the Unity from Kovacica, the Lower Srem from Pecinac and the South-West Bac. All three sugars were bought in a public open tender for three euros per sugar canteen. And I say "wow," but you left those facilities in ruins. We didn't destroy them. And these capacities and that capital are worth so low thanks to your wise state economic policy. What happened in the meantime? You could see that one union leader, who cannot possibly be connected to the government, was there a month ago and publicly said that these three sugar examples were successful privatisations. So if the union leader protects the interests of the workers, don't tell me you're more concerned than the union itself, which is why. A total of 1,680,000 euros have been invested in Unity from Kovacica in the past period, which is more than 380,000 euros compared to the contractual obligation taken over. In the caves, Donji Srem, which was also bought for three euros, but in a public, transparent, open tender procedure, where all potential investors were invited, and that only one bought tender documentation and made an offer and that one was called MK "Comerc", it is thanks to your wise economic policy, because the capacities were destroyed and others were not interested. The investment programme for the first year in the Caves in Lower Srem amounted to 2,200,000 euros, a total of 2,476,000 euros was invested. I note that the social programmes mentioned above, and also in this company, are fully realised. The first year investment programme in South-West Bac was 900,000 euros, a total of 2,100,000 euros was invested, the social programme was also fully achieved. If you don't believe this data, please go to those three capacities and ask the workers, take the cameras along with you and play that contribution on any television and show that maybe the truth is different. But unfortunately, your grief, this is the truth about how privatization was done. As far as cementers are concerned, they're very popular, aren't they? We have three cements that are privatized at the very beginning. There is Beocinska cement factory privatised, a contract signed on 30 January 2002, a total price of 59,027,000 euros, reached by the date of signing of the contract. Then, a total investment programme of 37,5m euros nominally and a total social programme, also nominally expressed, 29m euros. Then Cementara "Kosjeric" from Kosjeric, bought by Titan from Greece for 41.2m euros, a contract signed on the same day, on January 30th 2001, and the total investment obligation is 34.5m euros, a total social programme of 18.7m euros. The cement factory from Popovac; who lives in Popovac, in the vicinity of Popovac, or at least in the area, knows that the cement factory in 2001 before the start of privatisation was just before the closure, before bankruptcy, that there were more than a thousand executive complaints about seizing property. You can check that if you don't believe it, and that, among other things, is the result of monopolization and that of an unnatural monopolization of the cement factory. If there hadn't been a privatisation in 2002, in early 2002, I say responsibly that with great chances these capacities would be inactive today. What did we do? Total revenue was made for the Republic of Serbia's budget at the Popovac cement factory of 60.9m euros, the total investment programme, nominally irried, 98m euros and 25m euros in the overall social programme. The report we have confirms that all investments for the first year after privatisation are fully realised and that the social programme is fully implemented. I'm just going to name you other companies, and I'm not going to read it, but I'm going to let you know that any time you want to get the right information, you're going to get it right now. These are PKS "Lateks", the Mitrovica valve industry, the FRAD from Alexinac, Nisal from Nis, "Palet" from New Vienna, "Jelen do", "Colubara", "Gas concrete", "Zitopek", "Frikom", "Serbian", "Pautnik", "Cajkaška", "Seceran Crvenka" and of course three last, DIN, DIV and Beopetrol from Belgrade. In auctioned privatisations, the total sales in 735 companies have so far been realised, with total revenue of over 270m euros and this sales price is 20% lower than the book value, and that is true, that is, we do not run away from it. I've explained a little bit how accounting value in previous status changes of social enterprises is fictitiously and artificially high, so these two figures are no match at all. What's that for comparison and example? First, we have a process that's public, that's open and that's transmitted to TV cameras. Anyone who wants to watch the auction transfer, and there's no time or way to go to where the auctions are held, is enough to turn on the TV station and see what's going on there or open the computer, the website and to monitor the flow of auction privatisation in a discreet manner. We have a fully open process, and this means a process in which anyone interested in participating in auction privatisation can approach, pay for tender, or auction documentation, and then appear as a potential buyer on the day of the auction. We have a situation where we know our customers, known in advance as potential buyers, and finally by the name and last name of those who win that auction. We have a process in which there is absolutely no way of predetermining who will be the winner. I invite you all to any auction so you can tell me in advance, this one will be or that one, so let's see if you can guess. He won't guess, he'll win the one who's willing to pay the highest price. I know that the principle of competition irritates you, because you're used to working under the table, because you're used to working in the dark, because you're used to organizing public procurement directly, by calling a company that you like, because you're used to buying for your own needs a bunch of stuff from budget funds, which is a report of budget inspection and dozens and dozens of and dozens of criminal charges you've filed. Unfortunately, they haven't been activated yet, but these violations don't go out of date and they'll be activated, and that's why you'll be held accountable. But you'll have to listen to me until the end, no matter how much you're allergic to the word competition, the public, the openness of the process, the transparency, because what I'm saying is not empty stories, but facts. For each of these companies, we have detailed information, who are the buyers, who are the potential buyers who participated, and they did not win, and when the auction was held. Don't be afraid, I won't read 750 auction companies to you, and if you insist, in fact, let's now see how many and what kind of criticisms are referred to this process. The first criticism is that the privatization doesn't know who the customers are. That's just not true. Any of the eight million inhabitants can find out who the privatisation buyer is in Serbia. I've got here, and I'm just gonna show you, I'm not going to read, but if you're really insisting, I can do it. Look at just a few examples: "Autoservis" from Pribo, owner of Costa Ranitovic from Pribo, bought at an auction on April 3, 2002; "Elgacrop" from Ljiga, 3rd April 2002, owner of Zarko Gajic, customer headquarters in Nis; "Montaža" - Belgrade, owner Miomir Pajkovic from Belgrade, won the auction on May 24th; "Ruma IGM" - Ruma, owner of Zivorad Pantic from Donji Tovarnik, won on September 10th 2002; "Installion" - Novi Belgrade, owner of Radoslav Curcic from Novi Sad, won on September 26th. Since there's a lot, and I'm going to remind you that in 10 years' time, you've sold one company and you've given one, I'm thinking of Galenika, and what you've sold to me and today we're trying to examine what actually happened and put the telecommunications back where they belong, that they have a stable basis for future development. There are more than 910 companies here and for every company data. "Shumadija" from Raca, the buyer Gordana Milekić - Rača Kragujevaca, etc. So if you're interested in who the customers are you have on your Privatisation Committee, you have on the Internet and there's no secret, there's no hiding, there's no lying, there's only truth, direct and concrete. When someone says, and that's the criticism they hear, that these aren't real customers and that someone's behind them, they're empty stories. He who stands rich will have to stand for the next five years. For the next five years, he has to stand there and wonder if after five years the official buyer will transfer his property to him for free. If he dared to do such illegal activity or acrobatics, to push someone else, to make a deal with him, to transfer property after five years, such a contract is invalid, void and illegal. I ask the public of Serbia above all, and I ask all of you, whom you are willing to offer 100,000, million euros to be held in your place as the owner of the company and that for five years you have been waiting for the company to return to you later by some fictitious transaction. There is no such thing in Serbia. I don't trust a friend or neighbors or anyone, because this is business, these are business economic interests, which are held only in a way that respects the rules of the game that exist, and the rules of the game are quite clear, because there is no interference. The next criticism most often heard is that money is laundered in privatisation. That's simply not true, because I'll remind you, if you include elemental logic, the money is laundered in transactions that are secret, not public. Privatisation is a public process, a process that is open, where customers are known and where potential customers are known. If you turn on the elemental logic, you realize that there is no money laundering through the privatisation process. The next criticism that occurs most often, I speak for the citizens of Serbia and I know that you are not interested in much, but I would like to tell the citizens of Serbia not to fall for your unfounded criticism that the Serbian government is selling out Serbia's economy. Serbia's government does not sell out Serbia's economy, but Serbia's government is privatising to create a development opportunity for Serbia's economy as much as possible to attract international investors, multinational companies, and if you want domestic private investors and entrepreneurs. How? By getting these investments into our companies. You don't think any foreign investor will put a company on their backs and take it somewhere across the border to another country? In these companies, because of our population and with the increase in production, these companies will pay taxes to our country. These companies will produce products that will be much more competitive after the investments are made. These products will be exported to other countries and that will be our exports, Serbian exports. This is what smart countries in transition knew that they recognized in a good model of privatisation and used privatisation as a way to boost their own economy's competitive capacity. Those who didn't know that, those who made a mistake, which they shouldn't be resented, because privatisation was still a new process, chose a free division model, a model of voucherisation. They don't need to be resented, and they really need to be asked what it is with elementary economic knowledge, economic education, when there is still so-called today. The expert groups that propose voucherisation, free division and want to make the country the exact same scenario for those countries that had failed privatisation. Fortunately, they don't ask questions like that. What we're going to have in the end, we're going to have one combination of different privatisation models. It should not be ignored that in the 1990s a large part of the Serbian economy is privatised through the privatisation model and through commercial gray transactions, through the swelling of social property towards private businesses. The 1997 model has already produced more than 250,000 shareholders today, and that is the part so-called part. People's capitalism, which is often being run through the press, and through that wave went to the most successful companies, which are few, though, because today when you go out here and you start to list successful companies from the previous concept, you get to number five, and you stop there. I'm telling you, come by ten and you don't have to go any further. So, we had a concept that produced a huge struggle of internal shareholders, and that would be a strong incentive for the development of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, for the development of financial markets. In the second part, there was a group of companies that had significantly lower financial and business performances and needed fresh capital. This fresh capital is not made by free distribution but by selling capital, not for income and not for sale, but for investment, and we have shown that. Why do better businesses first, then worse? Because it is necessary to carry out a fair, fair distribution of the costs of transition. It is truly deeply fair, socially-based and acceptable that social programmes are financed from privatisation revenues in poorer enterprises, to finance subsidies in the course of the restructuring process from the privatisation revenue achieved in better enterprises. And that's why I started my exposure to subsidies, to show you that the model being conducted has a deep social component, because incomes are exclusively used to depreciate heavy and high costs of transition, because our inherited situation is extremely bad. And then, that's why I told you that this is the only way to finance exactly those costs of transition. In the end, I'd like to say, for today, a few words relating to the privatisation that flows from the action fund. You know that the previous privatisation model meant free share of shares up to 60%, and that the rest of the capital became state property in the action fund. What is a paradox and what is truly incomprehensible, despite the fact that the 1997 privatisation model defined a wide range of participants of individual shareholders, nor was it possible to trade these actions, nor did the action fund exist. It was only by adopting the Act on the Action Fund in 2001 that we set up the Action Fund and soon activated, i.e. put the action fund into operation. At the start of trading actions from the action fund, only 10 companies quoted their stock exchange actions. Today, more than 300 companies, although occasionally, quotes on the Belgrade Stock Exchange. Unfortunately, we do not have a permanent quotation yet, but the ministry will implement an initial public sales programme and permanent quotations early next year. This will allow the population to spend instead of saving on banks, saving is done by buying individual actions of successful businesses. You can imagine the material and the incentive to develop the financial market that the action fund has made in the previous period. What I'm trying to say is that the principles that involve the operation of the action fund are in no way different from the principle of privatisation. It's competition, it's public and it's openness. There is no case where actions from the action fund were sold past competition. As I have a list of complete companies in the auction and tender privatisation process, so I have a complete list of companies whose minority packages from the action fund are sold via the Belgrade Stock Exchange. Don't be afraid, I won't read this list either, because it's about 148 companies, which were privatized from April 2002 to today. Based on the sale of the stock from the action fund, Serbia's budget has received 149m euros, which is more than 60% higher than the total sum of the value of social capital, i.e. state capital in the action fund before privatisation. Why is the existence and activation of the action fund important? I said a little bit, for the development of financial markets. The shareholders finally got a chance to spend the property they have in their possession, if that's in their interest. The action fund has developed a strong action culture in our country. Gentlemen, action culture is not developed by giving people action, but by creating institutions, the legal framework that this culture has a chance and that it develops. What did we do? The action fund and institution of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, with the updated rules, which allowed not only trade, which was very often the source of speculative activities of brokerage houses around the average price determined on the basis of the price and quantity of the requested actions, but we introduced trading methods, the selling price for a minimum defined quantity. I will remind you, thanks to the action fund, a large number of shareholders in our country have finally realized that the actions they possess have great value. This is an example of the Apathian brewery, when the state 9.28% of the stock was sold at about 10 times the price previously achieved by individual shareholders three weeks after the first auction. It is an example in many other cases. After all, you had the opportunity to see that maybe a week or ten days ago, not us, but shareholders, along with the action fund, sold the shares in Kanjiza, in Potis, from Kanjija, at a price that exceeds the market price of the company. It was, among other things, a way to develop an action fund, develop an action culture, create conditions for the start of a very important project, which is an initial public offering project, which will allow actions on the Belgrade Stock Exchange from April of next year, for the first time in over 55 years after the market in this country was abolished after World War II. Since it is more, that is, getting closer to the end of today’s work day, I will not take advantage of and abuse your time and your attention. I really thank the public and the MPs who have listened with attention to the current presentation of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. What I want tomorrow, and I'm going to ask the President-in-Office of Parliament to allow me to give a little bit of a report on economic activities, about what is actually going on there, whether the structure of the economy is changing in a competitive sense, whether it's critical and how much the industrial volume of production is, what it means when there's a current decline due to the restructuring process and what it is that we can expect. In the end, let's talk quite openly, do we today have a perfect system of statistical monitoring, which includes private economy as well. I want to present to you the concept of industrial policy in Serbia, because you have all wondered - and where is the development strategy. It is a concept of development defined through long-term industrial policy. In the end, let me introduce you to the full legislative framework that the Ministry has done, directly or together with other ministries, and to the plans that we will do in the coming period, all in order to complete the process of economic transition. This should contribute to the accelerated economic development of the Serbian state on its way to the European Union and will contribute directly to raising the standard of living of our population. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-05-0.u34288	I thank Mr. Secretary. Of course, Mr. Minister, you'll have a chance tomorrow to tell us what you've been doing for the last three years, unlike some who have been in the cold and dark. I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00. Bon appétit.
